"The paradox is that hedonism, the pursuit of pleasure for it's own sake, leads to anhedonia. Which is the inability to enjoy pleasure of any kind." -Anna Lembke
"Lessons of the balance.1. The relentless pursuit of pleasure and avoidance of pain, leads to pain. 2. Recovery begins with abstinence 3. Abstinence rests the brains reward pathway and with it our capacity to take joy and simpler pleasures.4. Self-binding creates literal and metacognitive space between desire and consumption, a modern necessity in our dopamine overloaded world.5. Medications can restore homeostasis, but consider what we lose by medicating away our pain.6. Pressing on the pain side, resets our balance to the side of pleasure.7. Beware of getting addicted to pain.8. Radical honesty promotes awareness, enhances intimacy and fosters a plenty mindset.9. Prosocial shame affirms that we belong to the human tribe.10. Instead of running away from the world, we can find escape by immersing ourselves in it." -Anna Lembke
"I urge you to find a way to immerse yourself fully in the life that you've been given. To stop running from whatever you're trying to escape, and instead to stop, and turn, and face whatever it is. Then I dare you to walk toward it. In this way, the world may reveal itself to you as something magical and awe-inspiring that does not require escape. Instead, the world may become something worth paying attention to. The rewards of finding and maintaining balance are neither immediate nor permanent. They require patience and maintenance. We must be willing to move forward despite being uncertain of what lies ahead. We must have faith that actions today that seem to have no impact in the present moment are in fact accumulating in a positive direction, which will be revealed to us only at some unknown time in the future. Healthy practices happen day by day. My patient Maria said to me, 'Recovery is like that scene in Harry Potter when Dumbledore walks down a darkened alley lighting lampposts along the way. Only when he gets to the end of the alley and stops to look back does he see the whole alley illuminated, the light of his progress." -Anna Lembke
"Because we've transformed the world from a place of scarcity to a place of overwhelming abundance: Drugs, food, news, gambling, shopping, gaming, texting, sexting, Facebooking, Instagramming, YouTubing, tweeting . . . the increased numbers, variety, and potency of highly rewarding stimuli today is staggering. The smartphone is the modern-day hypodermic needle, delivering digital dopamine 24/7 for a wired generation." -Anna Lembke
"The reason we're all so miserable may be because we're working so hard to avoid being miserable." -Anna Lembke
"I urge you to find a way to immerse yourself fully in the life that you've been given. To stop running from whatever you're trying to escape, and instead to stop, and turn, and face whatever it is. Then I dare you to walk toward it. In this way, the world may reveal itself to you as something magical and awe-inspiring that does not require escape. Instead, the world may become something worth paying attention to." -Anna Lembke
"We're all running from pain. Some of us take pills. Some of us couch surf while binge-watching Netflix. Some of us read romance novels. We'll do almost anything to distract ourselves from ourselves. Yet all this trying to insulate ourselves from pain seems only to have made our pain worse." -Anna Lembke
"As the neuroscientist, Daniel Freedman, who studies the foraging practices of Red Harvester ants, once remarked to me: 'The world is sensory rich and causal poor'. That is to say, we know the donut tastes good in the moment, but we are less aware that eating a donut every day for a month, adds 5 pounds to our waistline." -Anna Lembke
"But, there is a cost to medicating away every type of human suffering, and as we shall see, there is an alternative path that might work better: embracing pain." -Anna Lembke
"[E]mpathy without accountability is a shortsighted attempt to relieve suffering." -Anna Lembke
"Pleasure and pain are co-located. In addition to the discovery of dopamine, neuro-scientists have determined that pleasure and pain are processed in overlapping brain regions, and work via an opponent processing mechanism. Another way to say this is pleasure and pain work like a balance. Imagine our brains contains a balance, a scale with a fulcrum in the centre. When nothing is on the balance it's level with the ground. When we experience pleasure, dopamine is released in our reward pathway and the balance tips to the side of pleasure. The more our balance tips and the faster it tips, the more pleasure we feel. But here's the important thing about the balance. It wants to remain level! that is, in equilibrium. It does not want to be tipped for very long, to one side or another. Hence, everytime the balance tips towards pleasure, powerful self-regulating mechanisms kick into action to bring it level again. These self-regulating mechanisms do not require conscious thought or an act of will, they just happen like a reflex." -Anna Lembke
"Beyond extreme examples of running from pain, we've lost the ability totolerate even minor forms of discomfort. We're constantly seeking to distractourselves from the present moment, to be entertained." -Anna Lembke
"Practicing mindfulness is something like observing the Milky Way. It demands that we see our thoughts and emotions as separate from us, and yet, simultaneously apart of us. Also the brain can do some pretty weird things, some of which are embarrassing, thus the importance of being without judgement. Reserving judgement is important to the practice of mindfulness because as soon as we start condemning what our brain is doing, eww, why would I be thinking about that, I'm a loser, I'm a freak - We stop being able to observe. Staying in the observer position is essential to getting to know our brains and ourselves in a new way." -Anna Lembke
"I suggested she try walking to class without listening to anything and just letting her own thoughts bubble to the surface. She looked at me both incredulous and afraid. 'Why would I do that?' she asked, openmouthed. 'Well,' I ventured, 'it's a way of becoming familiar with yourself. Of letting your experience unfold without trying to control it or run away from it. All that distracting yourself with devices may be contributing to your depression and anxiety. It's pretty exhausting avoiding yourself all the time. I wonder if experiencing yourself in a different way might give you access to new thoughts and feelings, and help you feel more connected to yourself, to others, and to the world.' She thought about that for a moment. 'But it's so boring,' she said. 'Yes, that's true,' I said. 'Boredom is not just boring. It can also be terrifying. It forces us to come face-to-face with bigger questions of meaning and purpose. But boredom is also an opportunity for discovery and invention. It creates the space necessary for a new thought to form, without which we're endlessly reacting to stimuli around us, rather than allowing ourselves to be within our lived experience." -Anna Lembke
"70% of the world global deaths are attributable to modifial behavioural risk factors like smoking, physical inactivity and diet. The leading global risks for mortality are high blood pressure 13%, tobacco use 9%, high blood sugar 6%, physical inactivity 6% and obesity 5%. In 2013, an estimated 2.1 billion adults were overweight, compared with 857 million in 1980. There are now more people world-wide, except in sub-Saharan parts of Africa and Asia who are obese, than who are underweight." -Anna Lembke
"By protecting our children from adversity, have we made them deathlyafraid of it? By bolstering their self-esteem with false praise and a lack ofreal-world consequences, have we made them less tolerant, more entitled,and ignorant of their own character defects? By giving in to their everydesire, have we encouraged a new age of hedonism?" -Anna Lembke
"Once we get the anticipated reward, brain dopamine firing increases well above tonic baseline, but if the reward we anticipated doesn't materialise, dopamine levels fall well below baseline. Which is to say, if we get the expected reward, we get an even bigger spike, if we don't get the expected reward, we experience an even bigger plunge. We've all experienced the letdown of unmet expectations. An expected reward that failed to materialise is worse than a reward that was never anticipated in the first place. How does cue-induced craving translate to our pleasure-pain balance? The balance tips to the side of pleasure, a dopamine mini spike, in anticipation of future reward. Immediately followed by a tip to the side of pain, a dopamine mini defecit, in the aftermath of the cue. The dopamine defecit is craving and drives drug seeking behaviour." -Anna Lembke
"The reason we're all so miserable may be because we're working so hardto avoid being miserable." -Anna Lembke
"I tend to imagine the self-regulating system like little gremlins hoping on the pain side of the balance to counteract the weight on the pleasure side. The gremlins represent the work of homeostasis, the tendency of any living system to maintain physiologic equilibrium. Once the balance is level, it keeps going, tipping an equal and opposite amount to the side of pain.In the 1970s social scientists Richard Solomon and John Corbett called this reciprocal relationship between pleasure and pain 'The Opponent Process Theory'. Any prolonged or repeated departure from hedonic or adaptive neutrality has a cost. That cost is an after-reaction, that is opposite in value to the stimulus, or as the old saying goes: 'What goes up, must come down'." -Anna Lembke
"Exercise increases many of the neurotransmitters involved in positive mood regulation: dopamine, serotonin, norepinephrine, epinephrine, endocannabinoids, and endogenous opioid peptides (endorphins). Exercise contributes to the birth of new neurons and supporting glial cells. Exercise even reduces the likelihood of using and getting addicted to drugs." -Anna Lembke
"With prolonged and repeated exposure to pleasurable stimuli, our capacityto tolerate pain decreases, and our threshold for experiencing pleasureincreases." -Anna Lembke
"The victim narrative reflects a wider societal trend in which we're all prone to seeing ourselves as the victims of circumstance and deserving of compensation or reward for our suffering. Even when people have been victimized, if the narrative never moves beyond victimhood, it's difficult for healing to occur." -Anna Lembke
"The smartphone is the modern-day hypodermic needle, delivering digital dopamine 24/7 for a wired generation" -Anna Lembke
"With intermittent exposure to pain, our natural hedonic set point gets weighted to the side of pleasure, such that we become less vulnerable to pain and more able to feel pleasure over time." -Anna Lembke
"Experiments show that a free rat will instinctively work to free another rat trapped inside a plastic bottle. But once that free rat has been allowed to self-administer heroin, it is no longer interested in helping out the caged rat, presumably too caught up in an opioid haze to care about a fellow member of its species." -Anna Lembke
"It is not our perfection but our willingness to work together to remedy our mistakes that creates the intimacy we crave." -Anna Lembke
"We've all experienced the letdown of unmet expectations. An expected reward that fails to materialize is worse than a reward that was never anticipated in the first place." -Anna Lembke
"I urge you to find a way to immerse yourself fully in the life that you've been given. To stop running from whatever you're trying to escape, and instead to stop, and turn, and face whatever it is." -Anna Lembke
"For a rat in a box, chocolate increases the basal output of dopamine in the brain by 55 percent, sex by 100 percent, nicotine by 150 percent, and cocaine by 225 percent. Amphetamine, the active ingredient in the street drugs 'speed,' 'ice,' and 'shabu' as well as in medications like Adderall that are used to treat attention deficit disorder, increases the release of dopamine by 1,000 percent. By this accounting, one hit off a meth pipe is equal to ten orgasms." -Anna Lembke
"Binding ourselves is a way to be free." -Anna Lembke
"The paradox is that hedonism, the pursuit of pleasure for its own sake,leads to anhedonia, which is the inability to enjoy pleasure of any kind." -Anna Lembke
"For a rat in a box, chocolate increases the basal output of dopamine in the brain by 55 percent, sex by 100 percent, nicotine by 150 percent, and cocaine by 225 percent. Amphetamine, the active ingredient in the street drugs 'speed,' 'ice,' and 'shabu' as well as in medications like Adderall that are used to treat attention deficit disorder, increases the release of dopamine by 1,000 percent. By this accounting, one hit off a meth pipe is equal to ten orgasms." -Anna Lembke
"Abstinence is necessary to restore homeostasis, and with it our ability to get pleasure from less potent rewards, as well as see, the true cause and effect between our substance use and the way we're feeling." -Anna Lembke
"When the people around us are reliable and tell us the truth, including keeping promises they've made to us, we feel more confident about the world and our own future in it. We feel we can rely not just on them but also on the world to be an orderly, predictable, safe kind of a place. Even in the midst of scarcity, we feel confident that things will turn out okay. This is a plenty mindset." -Anna Lembke
"final day of the original experiment. When the scientists examined the rats' brains, they saw cocaine-induced changes in the rats' reward pathways consistent with persistent cocaine sensitization. These findings show that a drug like cocaine can alter the brain forever. Similar findings have been shown with other addictive substances, from alcohol to opioids to cannabis. In my clinical work I see people who struggle with severe addiction slipping right back into compulsive use with a single exposure, even after years of abstinence. This may occur because of persistent sensitization to the drug of choice, the distant echoes of earlier drug use." -Anna Lembke
"All that distracting yourself with devices may be contributing to your depression and anxiety. It's pretty exhausting avoiding yourself all the time. I wonder if experiencing yourself in a different way might give you access to new thoughts and feelings, and help you feel more connected to yourself, to others, and to the world." -Anna Lembke
"The motivation to gamble is based largely on the inability to predict the reward occurrence, rather than on financial gain." -Anna Lembke
"Shame makes us feel bad about ourselves as people, whereas guilt makes us feel bad about our actions while preserving a positive sense of self." -Anna Lembke
"When the people around us lie and don't keep their promises, we feel less confident about the future. The world becomes a dangerous place that can't be relied upon to be orderly, predictable, or safe. We go into competitive survival mode and favor short-term gains over long-term ones, independent of actual material wealth. This is a scarcity mindset." -Anna Lembke
"With a wry smile, he went on to hypothesize more generally--and, I suspect, only half-jokingly--that addicts are bored or frustrated problem-solvers who instinctively contrive Houdini-like situations from which to disentangle themselves when no other challenge happens to present itself. The drug becomes the reward when they succeed and the consolation prize when they fail." -Anna Lembke
"A truthful self-inventory leads not only to a better understanding ofour own shortcomings. It also allows us to more objectively appraiseand respond to the shortcomings of others. When we're accountable toourselves, we're able to hold others accountable. We can leverageshame without shaming.The key here is accountability with compassion. These lessons applyto all of us, addicted or not, and translate to every type of relationshipin our everyday lives." -Anna Lembke
"Doctors and health care institutions are complicit in the medicalization of poverty that encourages the creation of professional patients." -Anna Lembke
"Nora Volkow, showing that dopamine transmission is still below normal two weeks after quitting drugs. Her study is consistent with my clinical experience that two weeks of abstinence is not enough. At two weeks, patients are usually still experiencing withdrawal. They are still in a dopamine deficit state. On the other hand, four weeks is often sufficient." -Anna Lembke
"That's because the evidence is indisputable: Exercise has a more profound and sustained positive effect on mood, anxiety, cognition, energy, and sleep than any pill I can prescribe." -Anna Lembke
"Mindfulness practices are especially important in the early days of abstinence. Many of us use high-dopamine substances and behaviors to distract ourselves from our own thoughts. When we first stop using dopamine to escape, those painful thoughts, emotions, and sensations come crashing down on us." -Anna Lembke
"Not very well.' For a single instant he looked ashamed. Over the past three decades, I have seen growing numbers of patients like David and Kevin who appear to have every advantage in life--supportive families, quality education, financial stability, good health--yet develop debilitating anxiety, depression, and physical pain. Not only are they not functioning to their potential; they're barely able to get out of bed in the morning." -Anna Lembke
"After he was discharged, he began weekly exposure therapy with a talented young therapist on our team. The basic principle of exposure therapy is to expose people in escalating increments to the very thing--being in crowds, driving across bridges, flying in airplanes--that causes the uncomfortable emotion they're trying to flee, and in doing so, augment their ability to tolerate that activity. In time they may even come to enjoy it." -Anna Lembke
"Boredom is not just boring. It can also be terrifying. It forces us to come face-to-face with bigger questions of meaning and purpose. But boredom is also an opportunity for discovery and invention. It creates the space necessary for a new thought to form, without which we're endlessly reacting to stimuli around us, rather than allowing ourselves to be within our lived experience." -Anna Lembke
"But I worry that we have both oversanitized and overpathologized childhood, raising our children in the equivalent of a padded cell, with no way to injure themselves but also no means to ready themselves for the world." -Anna Lembke
"This means that although the brain changes are permanent, we can find new synaptic pathways to create healthy behaviors." -Anna Lembke
"But if we consume just the right amount, 'inhibiting great pain with little pain,' we discover the path to hormetic healing, and maybe even the occasional 'fit of joy." -Anna Lembke
"The Internet promotes compulsive overconsumption not merely by providing increased access to drugs old and new, but also by suggesting behaviors that otherwise may never have occurred to us. Videos don't just 'go viral.' They're literally contagious, hence the advent of the meme." -Anna Lembke
"In humans, high levels of physical activity in junior high, high school, and early adulthood predict lower levels of drug use. Exercise has also been shown to help those already addicted to stop or cut back." -Anna Lembke
"Social media propels our tendency toward self-shame by inviting so much invidious distinction. We're now comparing ourselves not just to our classmates, neighbors, and coworkers, but to the whole world, making it all too easy to convince ourselves that we should have done more, or gotten more, or just lived differently." -Anna Lembke
"Without pleasure we wouldn't eat, drink, or reproduce. Without pain we wouldn't protect ourselves from injury and death." -Anna Lembke
"But boredom is also an opportunity for discovery and invention. It creates the space necessary for a new thought to form, without which we're endlessly reacting to stimuli around" -Anna Lembke
"Years ago, a friend said to me, 'Your entire existence can be reduced to a three-part cycle. One: Get fucked up. Two: Fuck up. Three: Damage control.' With a wry smile, he went on to hypothesize more generally - and I suspect, only half-jokingly - that addicts are bored or frustrated problem-solvers who instinctively contrive Houdini-like situations from which to disentangle themselves when no other challenge happens to present itself. The drug becomes the reward when they succeed and the consolation prize when they fail." -Anna Lembke
"The enormous pressures on doctors today to prescribe pills, perform procedures, and please patients, all within a disjointed medical bureaucracy and all with an eye on the bottom line, has contributed to the current prescription drug epidemic." -Anna Lembke
"Mindfulness is simply the ability to observe what our brain is doing while it's doing it, without judgment." -Anna Lembke
"Needing more of a substance to feel pleasure, or experiencing less pleasure at a given dose, is called tolerance. Tolerance is an important factor in the development of addiction." -Anna Lembke
"Recounting our experiences gives us mastery over them. Whether in thecontext of psychotherapy, talking to an AA sponsor, confessing to apriest, confiding in a friend, or writing in a journal, our honestdisclosure brings our behavior into relief, allowing us in some cases tosee it for the first time. This is especially true for behaviors that involvea level of automaticity outside of conscious awareness." -Anna Lembke
"Skydiving can be addictive and can lead to persistent dysphoria if engaged in repeatedly." -Anna Lembke
"This means that although the brain changes are permanent, we can find new synaptic pathways to create healthy behaviors." -Anna Lembke
"But I worry that we have both oversanitized and overpathologized childhood, raising our children in the equivalent of a padded cell, with no way to injure themselves but also no means to ready themselves for the world." -Anna Lembke
"Boredom is not just boring. It can also be terrifying. It forces us to come face-to-face with bigger questions of meaning and purpose. But boredom is also an opportunity for discovery and invention. It creates the space necessary for a new thought to form, without which we're endlessly reacting to stimuli around us, rather than allowing ourselves to be within our lived experience." -Anna Lembke
"After he was discharged, he began weekly exposure therapy with a talented young therapist on our team. The basic principle of exposure therapy is to expose people in escalating increments to the very thing--being in crowds, driving across bridges, flying in airplanes--that causes the uncomfortable emotion they're trying to flee, and in doing so, augment their ability to tolerate that activity. In time they may even come to enjoy it." -Anna Lembke
"Stimulants, which are also considered to be highly addictive, are in schedule II. They are most often used in the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)" -Anna Lembke
"This is not to say that high-dopamine substances literally contain dopamine. Rather, they trigger the release of dopamine in our brain's reward pathway." -Anna Lembke
"Our brains are not evolved for this world of plenty. As Dr. Tom Finucane, who studies diabetes in the setting of chronic sedentary feeding, said, 'We are cacti in the rain forest.' And like cacti adapted to an arid climate, we are drowning in dopamine." -Anna Lembke
"IN 2012, researchers at the University of Rochester, altered the 1968 Stanford Marshmallow experiment in one crucial way. One group of children experienced a broken promise before the marshmallow test was conducted. The researchers left the room and said they would return when the child rang the bell, but then didn't. The other group of children were told the same, but when they rang the bell, the researcher returned. The children in the latter group where the researcher came back, were willing to wait up to 4 times longer - 12 minutes - for a 2nd marshmallow, than the children in the broken promise group." -Anna Lembke
"What's pleasurable for one person may not be for another. Each person has their 'drug of choice." -Anna Lembke
"Nonetheless, ECT provides a hormetic shock to the brain, which in turn spurs a broad compensatory response to reassert homeostasis: 'ECT brings about various neuro-physiological as well as neuro-chemical changes in the macro- and micro-environment of the brain. Diverse changes involving expression of genes, functional connectivity, neurochemicals, permeability of blood-brain-barrier, alteration in immune system has [sic] been suggested to be responsible for the therapeutic effects of ECT." -Anna Lembke
"But by creating tangible barriers between ourselves and our drug of choice, we press the pause button between desire and action." -Anna Lembke
"Not to mention that the entire cycle of anticipation and craving can occur outside the threshold of conscious awareness." -Anna Lembke
"While truth-telling promotes human attachment, compulsive overconsumption of high-dopamine goods is the antithesis of human attachment. Consuming leads to isolation and indifference, as the drug comes to replace the reward obtained from being in relationship with others." -Anna Lembke
"dopamine is used to measure the addictive potential of any behavior or drug. The more dopamine a drug releases in the brain's reward pathway (a brain circuit that links the ventral tegmental area, the nucleus accumbens, and the prefrontal cortex), and the faster it releases dopamine, the more addictive the drug." -Anna Lembke
"Researchers interviewed nearly 150 thousand people in 26 countries to determine the prevalence of generalized anxiety disorder to find, had excessive and uncontrollable worry adversely affected their life. They found that richer countries had higher rates of anxiety than poor ones. The authors wrote, 'The disorder is significantly more prevalent and impairing in high income countries than in low or middle income countries.' The number of new cases of depression world-wide increased 50% between 1990 and 2017. The highest increases in new cases were seen in countries with the highest sociodemographic index income, especially North America. Physical pain too is increasing. Over the course of my career, I have seen more patients, including otherwise healthy young people presenting with full-bodied pain despite the absence of any identifiable disease or tissue injury. The numbers and types of unexplained physical pain syndromes have grown. Complex regional pain syndrome, fibromyalgia... [], and so on. When researchers ask the following question to people in 30 countries around the world. 'During the past four weeks, how often have you had bodily aches or pains'...[]. They found that Americans reported more pain than any other country. 34% of Americans said they experienced pain often or very often, compared to 19% of people living in China, 18% of people living in Japan, 13% of people living in Switzerland, and 11% of people living in South Africa. The question is, 'Why in an unprecedented time of wealth, freedom, technological progress, and medical advancement, do we appear to be unhappier and in more pain than ever?'. The reason we're all so miserable may be because we're working so hard to avoid being miserable." -Anna Lembke
"The evolution of the gluten-free diet illustrates how attempts to control consumption are swiftly countered by modern market forces, just one more example of the challenges inherent in our dopamine economy. There are many other modern examples of previously taboo drugs being transformed into socially acceptable commodities, often in the guise of medicines. Cigarettes became vape pens and ZYN pouches. Heroin became OxyContin. Cannabis became 'medical marijuana.' No sooner have we committed to abstinence than our old drug reappears as a nicely packaged, affordable new product saying, Hey! This is okay. I'm good for you now." -Anna Lembke
"We must have faith that actions that seem to have no impact in the present moment are in fact accumulating in a positive direction, which will be revealed to us only at some unknown time in the future." -Anna Lembke
"Human beings, the ultimate seekers, haveresponded too well to the challenge of pursuing pleasure and avoiding pain.As a result, we've transformed the world from a place of scarcity to a placeof overwhelming abundance." -Anna Lembke
"One of the jobs of good psychotherapy is to help people tell healing stories. If autobiographical narrative is a river, psychotherapy is the means by which that river is mapped and in some cases rerouted." -Anna Lembke
"The paradox is that hedonism, the pursuit of pleasure for its own sake, leads to anhedonia, which is the inability to enjoy pleasure of any kind." -Anna Lembke
"By raising our neural set point with repeated pleasures, we become endless strivers, never satisfied with what we have, always looking for more…The net effect is that we now need more reward to feel pleasure and less injury to feel pain." -Anna Lembke
"A key to well-being is for us to get off the couch and move our real bodies, not our virtual ones... That's because the evidence is indisputable: Exercise has a more profound and sustained positive effect on mood, anxiety, cognition, energy, and sleep than any pill I can prescribe." -Anna Lembke
"What's really cool,' he went on, 'is that it's become a family activity, and something we do with friends. Doing drugs was always social. In college a lot of people partied hard. It was always sitting around together drinking or doing lines of coke. 'Now I don't do that anymore. Instead, a couple of our friends come over. . . . They have kids too, and we have a cold-water party. I have a custom trough set in the mid-forties, and everybody takes turns getting in, alternating with the hot tub. We have a timer and we cheer each other on, including the kids. The trend has caught on among our friends too. This group of all women in our friend group goes to the Bay once a week and gets in. They immerse themselves to their necks. That water's in the fifties.' 'Then what?' 'I don't know,' he laughed. 'They probably go out and party.' We both smiled." -Anna Lembke
"First, most of us are unable to see the full extent of the consequences of our drug use while we're still using. High-dopamine substances and behaviors cloud our ability to accurately assess cause and effect. As the neuroscientist Daniel Friedman, who studies the foraging practices of red harvester ants, once remarked to me, 'The world is sensory rich and causal poor.' That is to say, we know the doughnut tastes good in the moment, but we are less aware that eating a doughnut every day for a month adds five pounds to our waistline." -Anna Lembke
"The 'flow' of deep concentration is a drug in itself, releasing dopamine and creating its own high. This kind of single-minded focus, although heavily rewarded in modern rich nations, can be a trap when it keeps us from the intimate connections with friends and family in the rest of our lives." -Anna Lembke
"Heroin possession and distribution is illegal in the United States, but heroin is readily available on the black market, sold as white or brownish powder mixed with powdered milk, starch, sugars, or quinine." -Anna Lembke
"Pain to treat pain. Anxiety to treat anxiety. This approach is counterintuitive, and exactly opposite to what we've been taught over the last 150 years about how to manage disease, distress, and discomfort." -Anna Lembke
"As we have seen, having too much material wealth can be as bad as having too little. Dopamine overload impairs our ability to delay gratification. Social media exaggeration and 'post-truth' politics (let's call it what it is, lying) amplify our sense of scarcity. The result is that even amidst plenty, we feel impoverished." -Anna Lembke
"Scientists at Charles University in Prague, writing in the European Journal of Applied Physiology, conducted an experiment in which ten men volunteered to submerge themselves (head out) in cold water (14 degrees Celsius) for one hour. This is 57 degrees Fahrenheit. Using blood samples, the researchers showed that plasma (blood) dopamine concentrations increased 250 percent, and plasma norepinephrine concentrations increased 530 percent as a result of cold-water immersion." -Anna Lembke
"Pain to treat pain. Anxiety to treat anxiety. This approach is counterintuitive, and exactly opposite to what we've been taught over the last 150 years about how to manage disease, distress, and discomfort." -Anna Lembke
"(Hippocrates wrote): 'Of two pains occurring together, not in the same part of the body, the stronger weakens the other." -Anna Lembke
"In an attempt to find a less addictive opioid painkiller to replace morphine, chemists came up with a brand-new compound, which they named 'heroin' for heroisch, the German word for 'courageous.' Heroin turned out to be two to five times more potent than morphine and gave way to the narcomania of the early 1900s." -Anna Lembke
"Lessons of the Balance The relentless pursuit of pleasure (and avoidance of pain) leads to pain. Recovery begins with abstinence. Abstinence resets the brain's reward pathway and with it our capacity to take joy in simpler pleasures. Self-binding creates literal and metacognitive space between desire and consumption, a modern necessity in our dopamine-overloaded world. Medications can restore homeostasis, but consider what we lose by medicating away our pain. Pressing on the pain side resets our balance to the side of pleasure. Beware of getting addicted to pain. Radical honesty promotes awareness, enhances intimacy, and fosters a plenty mindset. Prosocial shame affirms that we belong to the human tribe. Instead of running away from the world, we can find escape by immersing ourselves in it." -Anna Lembke
"severe addictions are among those contemporary prophets that we ignore to our own demise, for they show us who we truly are." -Anna Lembke
"These medications can be lifesaving tools and I'm grateful to have them in clinical practice. But there is a cost to medicating away every type of human suffering, and as we shall see, there is an alternative path that might work better: embracing pain." -Anna Lembke
"we consume too much pain, or in too potent a form, we run the risk of compulsive, destructive overconsumption. But if we consume just the right amount, 'inhibiting great pain with little pain,' we discover the path to hormetic healing, and maybe even the occasional 'fit of joy." -Anna Lembke
"Lessons of the Balance The relentless pursuit of pleasure (and avoidance of pain) leads to pain. Recovery begins with abstinence. Abstinence resets the brain's reward pathway and with it our capacity to take joy in simpler pleasures." -Anna Lembke
"Genetically engineered mice unable to make dopamine will not seek out food, and will starve to death even when food is placed just inches from their mouth. Yet if food is put directly into their mouth, they will chew and eat the food, and seem to enjoy it." -Anna Lembke
"We as mental-health care providers have become so caught up in the practice of empathy that we've lost sight of the fact that empathy without accountability is a shortsighted attempt to relieve suffering." -Anna Lembke
"The reason we're all so miserable may be because we're working so hard to avoid being miserable." -Anna Lembke
"The Internet as a Source of Drugs of Abuse,' the web page for such a site may be physically located in Uzbekistan, the business address in Mexico City, money generated from purchases deposited in a bank in the Cayman Islands, the drugs themselves shipped from India, while the owner of the site is living in Florida." -Anna Lembke
"If we consume too much pain, or in too potent a form, we run the riskof compulsive, destructive overconsumption.But if we consume just the right amount, inhibiting great pain withlittle pain, we discover the path to hormetic healing, and maybe eventhe occasional fit of joy." -Anna Lembke
"…the discovery some decades ago that contrary to previous teaching, humans can generate new neurons in the brain into the middle and late adulthood" -Anna Lembke
"While I was compulsively reading romance novels, I was only partially aware of doing so. I was aware of the behavior at the same time I was not aware of it. This is a well-recognized phenomenon in addiction, a kind of half-conscious state akin to a waking dream, referred to as denial." -Anna Lembke
"...we are all now vulnerable to prefrontal cortical atrophy as our reward pathway has become the dominant driver of our lives." -Anna Lembke
"Because once he started using cannabis, he wasn't governed by reason; he was governed by the pleasure-pain balance. Even one joint created a state of wanting not easily influence by logic." -Anna Lembke
"Trauma, social upheaval, and poverty contribute to addiction risk, as drugs become a means of coping and lead to epigenetic changes--heritable changes to the strands of DNA outside of inherited base pairs--affecting gene expression in both an individual and their offspring." -Anna Lembke
"pain" -Anna Lembke
"Persons with severe addictions are among those contemporary prophets that we ignore to our own demise, for they show us who we truly are." -Anna Lembke
"It is not our perfection but our willingness to work together to remedy our mistakes that creates the intimacy that we crave." -Anna Lembke
"only 4 percent of persons misusing or addicted to prescription drugs reports getting them from a drug dealer or a stranger." -Anna Lembke
"Prescribers wrote enough opioid painkiller prescriptions in 2012 to medicate every American adult around the clock for a month." -Anna Lembke
"More than 200 million prescriptions for opioid painkillers continue to be written by US doctors every year." -Anna Lembke
"Prohibition led to a sharp decrease in the number of Americans consuming and becoming addicted to alcohol. Rates of public drunkenness and alcohol-related liver disease decreased by half during this period in the absence of new remedies to treat addiction." -Anna Lembke
"Between 2002 and 2013, diagnosable alcohol addiction rose by 50 percent in older adults (over age sixty-five) and 84 percent in women, two demographic groups who had previously been relatively immune to this problem." -Anna Lembke
"I explained to her that any drug that stimulates our reward pathway the way cannabis does has the potential to change our brain's baseline anxiety. What feels like cannabis treating anxiety may in fact be cannabis relieving withdrawal from our last dose. Cannabis becomes the cause of our anxiety rather than the cure." -Anna Lembke
"They concluded that honesty can be strengthened by stimulating the prefrontal cortex, consistent with the idea that the 'human brain has evolved mechanisms dedicated to control complex social behaviors." -Anna Lembke
"Every child is taught to be on the lookout for bullies lest they become bystanders instead of upstanders. At the university level, faculty and students talk about triggers and safe spaces." -Anna Lembke
"Science teaches us that every pleasure exacts a price, and the pain that follows is longer lasting and more intense than the pleasure that gave rise to it. With prolonged and repeated exposure to pleasurable stimuli, our capacity to tolerate pain decreases, and our threshold for experiencing pleasure increases." -Anna Lembke
"As Aldous Huxley said in Brave New World Revisited, 'the development of a vast mass communications industry, concerned in the main neither with the true nor the false, but with the unreal, the more or less totally irrelevant . . . failed to take into account man's almost infinite appetite for distractions." -Anna Lembke
"7.5 percent of American children between the ages of six and seventeen took a prescribed medication for 'emotional and behavioral difficulties.' Poor children were more likely to take psychiatric medications than those not living in poverty (9.2 percent versus 6.6 percent). Boys were more likely than girls to be medicated. Non-Hispanic whites were more likely than people of color to be medicated." -Anna Lembke
"(Dopamine is...) WANTING more than LIKING." -Anna Lembke
"Yes, that's true,' I said. 'Boredom is not just boring. It can also be terrifying. It forces us to come face-to-face with bigger questions of meaning and purpose. But boredom is also an opportunity for discovery and invention. It creates the space necessary for a new thought to form, without which we're endlessly reacting to stimuli around us, rather than allowing ourselves to be within our lived experience." -Anna Lembke
"The more dopamine a drug releases in the brain's rewardpathway (a brain circuit that links the ventral tegmental area, the nucleusaccumbens, and the prefrontal cortex), and the faster it releases dopamine,the more addictive the drug." -Anna Lembke
"Shame makes us feel bad about ourselves as people, whereas guilt makes us feel bad about our actions while preserving positive sense of self. Shame is a maladaptive emotion. Guild is an adaptive emotion." -Anna Lembke
"Honesty Promotes Intimate Human Connections Telling the truth draws people in, especially when we're willing to expose our own vulnerabilities. This is counterintuitive because we assume that unmasking the less desirable aspects of ourselves will drive people away. It logically makes sense that people would distance themselves when they learn about our character flaws and transgressions. In fact, the opposite happens. People come closer. They see in our brokenness their own vulnerability and humanity. They are reassured that they are not alone in their doubts, fears, and weaknesses." -Anna Lembke
"Exercise increases many of the neurotransmitters involved in positive mood regulation: dopamine, serotonin, norepinephrine, epinephrine, endocannabinoids, and endogenous opioid peptides (endorphins" -Anna Lembke
"The feeling of plenty comes from a source beyond the material world. Believing in or working toward something outside ourselves, and fostering a life rich in human connectedness and meaning, can function as social glue by giving us a plenty mindset even in the midst of abject poverty. Finding connectedness and meaning requires radical honesty." -Anna Lembke
"Exercise has a more profound and sustained positive effect on mood, anxiety, cognition, energy, and sleep than any pill I can prescribe. But pursuing pain is harder than pursuing pleasure. It goes against our innate reflex to avoid pain and pursue pleasure. It adds to our cognitive load: We have to remember that we will feel pleasure after pain, and we're remarkably amnestic about this sort of thing. I know I have to relearn the lessons of pain every morning as I force myself to get out of bed and go exercise." -Anna Lembke
"Patients who tell stories in which they are frequently the victim, seldom bearing responsibility for bad outcomes, are often unwell and remain unwell. They are too busy blaming others to get down to the business of their own recovery." -Anna Lembke
"To put it in terms of the pleasure-pain balance, fasting from dopamine allows sufficient time for the gremlins to hop off the balance and for the balance to go back to the level position." -Anna Lembke
"It makes intuitive sense that when resources are scarce, people are more invested in immediate gains, and are less confident that those rewards will still be forthcoming in some distant future." -Anna Lembke
"One of the biggest risk factors for getting addicted to any drug is easy access to that drug. When it's easier to get a drug, we're more likely to try it. In trying it, we're more likely to get addicted to it." -Anna Lembke
"These findings show that a drug like cocaine can alter the brain forever. Similar findings have been shown with other addictive substances, from alcohol to opioids to cannabis." -Anna Lembke
"The extraordinary lengths to which Jacob went to avoid anything likely to incite sexual desire seemed downright medieval to our modern sensibilities. Yes far from feeling constrained by his new way of living, he felt liberated. As Immanuel Kant wrote, 'When we realize that we are capable of this inner legislation, the (natural) man feels himself compelled to reverence for the moral man in his own person.' Binding ourselves is a way to be free." -Anna Lembke
"As they say in AA, 'I'm sick and tired of being sick and tired." -Anna Lembke
"Our sensory perception of pain (and pleasure) is heavily influenced by the meaning we ascribe to it." -Anna Lembke
"The decreases in DA D2 receptors in the drug abusers, coupled to the decreases in DA release, would result in a decreased sensitivity of reward circuits to stimulation by natural rewards.' Once this happens, nothing feels good anymore." -Anna Lembke
"Recounting our experiences gives us mastery over them. In writing in a journal, our honest disclosure brings our behavior into relief, allowing us in some cases to see it for the first time." -Anna Lembke
"The question is: Why, in a time of unprecedented wealth, freedom, technological progress, and medical advancement, do we appear to be unhappier and in more pain than ever? The" -Anna Lembke
"A key to well-being is for us to get off the couch and move our real bodies, not our virtual ones. As I tell my patients, just walking in your neighborhood for thirty minutes a day can make a difference. That's because the evidence is indisputable: Exercise has a more profound and sustained positive effect on mood, anxiety, cognition, energy, and sleep than any pill I can prescribe. --" -Anna Lembke
"But if I'm disciplined and diligent, I realize I too am responsible. When I'm able to get to that place and recount the real version to myself and others, I experience a feeling of rightness and fairness that gives the world the order I crave." -Anna Lembke
"Recounting our experiences gives us mastery over them. Whether in the context of psychotherapy, talking to an AA sponsor, confessing to a priest, confiding in a friend, or writing in a journal, our honest disclosure brings our behavior into relief, allowing us in some cases to see it for the first time. This is especially true for behaviors that involve a level of automaticity outside of conscious awareness." -Anna Lembke
"A chance for you to observe yourself as separate from your thoughts, emotions, and sensations, including pain. This practice is sometimes called mindfulness." -Anna Lembke
"The pursuit of personal happiness has become a modern maxim, crowding out other definitions of the 'good life.' Even acts of kindness toward others are framed as a strategy for personal happiness. Altruism, no longer merely a good in itself, has become a vehicle for our own 'well-being'." -Anna Lembke
"If others respond by rejecting, condemning, or shaming us, we enter the cycle of what I call destructive shame. If others respond by holding us closer and proving clear guidance for redemption/recovery, we enter the cycle of prosocial shame." -Anna Lembke
"Overconsumption leads to shame, which demands radical honesty and leads not to shunning, as we saw with destructive shame, but to acceptance and empathy, coupled with a set of required actions to make amends. The result is increased belonging and decreased consumption." -Anna Lembke
"The neuroscientist George Koob calls this phenomenon 'dysphoria driven relapse,' wherein a return to using is driven not by the search for pleasure but by the desire to alleviate physical and psychological suffering of protracted withdrawal. Here's the good news. If we wait long enough, our brains (usually) readapt to the absence of the drug and we reestablish our baseline homeostasis: a level balance. Once our balance is level, we are again able to take pleasure in everyday, simple rewards. Going for a walk. Watching the sun rise. Enjoying a meal with friends." -Anna Lembke
"Intermittent fasting and calorie restriction extended lifespan and increased resistance to age-related diseases in rodents and monkeys, as well as reduced blood pressure and increased heart rate variability." -Anna Lembke
"[marshmallow study] One detail of the experiment that is less well known is what the children did during those 15 minutes of struggling to not eat the first marshmallow. The researchers observations reveal a literal embodiment of self-binding. The children covered their eyes with their hands or turn around so they can't see the try [with the marshmallows], start kicking the desk, or tug on their pigtails, or stroke the marshmallow as if it were a tiny stuffed animal. Covering eyes and turning away are reminiscent of physical self-binding. Tugging on pigtails suggests using physical pain as a distraction...[]. But what of stroking the marshmallow? This child, instead of turning away from the desired object, made it a pet, far too precious to eat, or at least to eat impulsively." -Anna Lembke
"My patients have taught me that honesty enhances awareness, creates more satisfying relationships, holds us accountable to a more authentic narrative, and strengthens our ability to delay gratification. It may even prevent the future development of addiction." -Anna Lembke
"Doctors more interested in money than in the well-being of their patients took advantage of the rising demand for opioid painkillers in the 1990s and 2000s as a way to get rich quick." -Anna Lembke
"Right after the conditioned cue, brain dopamine firing decreases not just to baseline levels, but below baseline levels. This transient dopamine mini-deficit state is what motivates us to seek out our reward. Dopamine levels below baseline drive craving." -Anna Lembke
"Then he tried opioids for the first time, which was easy to do in Arkansas in 2009, when opioid manufacturers and distributors were pumping millions of opioid pain pills into the state. In that same year, doctors in Arkansas wrote 116 opioid prescriptions per 100 persons living in Arkansas." -Anna Lembke
"Exercise even reduces the likelihood of using and getting addicted to drugs." -Anna Lembke
"By raising our neural set point with repeated pleasures, we become endless strivers, never satisfied with what we have, always looking for more." -Anna Lembke
"Today, more than 250,000 Americans receive methadone maintenance therapy, also known as opioid agonist therapy, opioid replacement therapy, and opioid maintenance therapy." -Anna Lembke
"Te animo a que encuentres una manera de sumergirte de lleno en la vida que se te ha dado. A que dejes de huir de lo que intentas escapar, sea lo que sea, y a que, en cambio, te detengas, des la vuelta y te enfrentes a ello." -Anna Lembke
"The 'flow' of deep concentration is a drug in itself, releasing dopamine and creating its own high. This kind of single-minded focus, although heavily rewarded in modern rich nations, can be a trap when it keeps us from the intimate connections with friends and family in the rest of our lives." -Anna Lembke
"First, most of us are unable to see the full extent of the consequences of our drug use while we're still using. High-dopamine substances and behaviors cloud our ability to accurately assess cause and effect. As the neuroscientist Daniel Friedman, who studies the foraging practices of red harvester ants, once remarked to me, 'The world is sensory rich and causal poor.' That is to say, we know the doughnut tastes good in the moment, but we are less aware that eating a doughnut every day for a month adds five pounds to our waistline." -Anna Lembke
"Naltrexone" -Anna Lembke
"The use of antidepressants like Paxil, Prozac, and Celexa is rising in countries all over the world, with the United States topping the list. Greater than one in ten Americans (110 people per 1,000) takes an antidepressant, followed by Iceland (106/1,000), Australia (89/1,000), Canada (86/1,000), Denmark (85/1,000), Sweden (79/1,000), and Portugal (78/1,000). Among twenty-five countries, South Korea was last (13/1,000)." -Anna Lembke
"By 2010, for the first time in history, unintentional drug poisonings represented the leading cause of injury death in the United States, exceeding deaths due to motor vehicle accidents.7" -Anna Lembke
"A key to well-being is for us to get off the couch and move our real bodies, not our virtual ones. As I tell my patients, just walking in your neighborhood for thirty minutes a day can make a difference. That's because the evidence is indisputable: Exercise has a more profound and sustained positive effect on mood, anxiety, cognition, energy, and sleep than any pill I can prescribe." -Anna Lembke
"Other studies examining the brain effects of cold-water immersion in humans and animals show similar elevations in monoamine neurotransmitters (dopamine, norepinephrine, serotonin), the same neurotransmitters that regulate pleasure, motivation, mood, appetite, sleep, and alertness. Beyond neurotransmitters, extreme cold in animals has been shown to promote neuronal growth, all the more remarkable since neurons are known to alter their microstructure in response to only a small handful of circumstances." -Anna Lembke
"Mark Epstein wrote in his book Going on Being about his own journey toward authenticity, 'No longer endeavoring to manage my environment, I began to feel invigorated, to find a balance, to permit a feeling of connection with the spontaneity of the natural world and with my own inner nature." -Anna Lembke
"What's really cool,' he went on, 'is that it's become a family activity, and something we do with friends. Doing drugs was always social. In college a lot of people partied hard. It was always sitting around together drinking or doing lines of coke. 'Now I don't do that anymore. Instead, a couple of our friends come over. . . . They have kids too, and we have a cold-water party. I have a custom trough set in the mid-forties, and everybody takes turns getting in, alternating with the hot tub. We have a timer and we cheer each other on, including the kids. The trend has caught on among our friends too. This group of all women in our friend group goes to the Bay once a week and gets in. They immerse themselves to their necks. That water's in the fifties.' 'Then what?' 'I don't know,' he laughed. 'They probably go out and party.' We both smiled." -Anna Lembke
"By raising our neural set point with repeated pleasures, we become endless strivers, never satisfied with what we have, always looking for more…The net effect is that we now need more reward to feel pleasure and less injury to feel pain." -Anna Lembke
"As we have seen, having too much material wealth can be as bad as having too little. Dopamine overload impairs our ability to delay gratification. Social media exaggeration and 'post-truth' politics (let's call it what it is, lying) amplify our sense of scarcity. The result is that even amidst plenty, we feel impoverished." -Anna Lembke
"Heroin possession and distribution is illegal in the United States, but heroin is readily available on the black market, sold as white or brownish powder mixed with powdered milk, starch, sugars, or quinine." -Anna Lembke
"…those who grow up in resource-poor environments and are primed with mortality cues are more likely to value immediate rewards over delayed rewards compared to those who are similarly primed and grow up in resource rich environments." -Anna Lembke
"Some of us couch surf while binge-watching Netflix. Some of us read romance novels. We'll do almost anything to distract ourselves from ourselves. Yet all this trying to insulate ourselves from pain seems only to have made our pain worse." -Anna Lembke
"One group of children experienced a broken promise before the marshmallow test was conducted: The researchers left the room and said they would return when the child rang the bell, but then didn't. The other group of children were told the same, but when they rang the bell, the researcher returned. The children in the latter group, where the researcher came back, were willing to wait up to four times longer (twelve minutes) for a second marshmallow than the children in the broken-promise group." -Anna Lembke
"According to the July 2014 Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report, US prescribers wrote 82.5 opioid painkiller prescriptions and 37.6 benzodiazepine prescriptions per 100 persons" -Anna Lembke
"when faith-based organizations end up on the wrong side of the same equation, by shunning transgressors and/or encouraging a web of secrecy and lies, they contribute to the cycle of destructive shame." -Anna Lembke
"Every major religion and code of ethics has included honesty as essential to its moral teachings. All my patients who have achieved long-term recovery have relied on truth-telling as critical for sustained mental and physical health. I too have become convinced that radical honesty is not just helpful for limiting compulsive overconsumption but also at the core of a life well lived." -Anna Lembke
"pleasures." -Anna Lembke
"While truth-telling promotes human attachment, compulsive overconsumption of high-dopamine goods is the antithesis of human attachment. Consuming leads to isolation and indifference, as the drug comes to replace the reward obtained from being in relationship with others. Experiments" -Anna Lembke
"Seventy percent of world global deaths are attributable to modifiable behavioral risk factors" -Anna Lembke
"The question is: Why, in a time of unprecedented wealth, freedom, technological progress, and medical advancement, do we appear to be unhappier and in more pain than ever? The reason we're all so miserable may be because we're working so hard to avoid being miserable." -Anna Lembke
"limbic capitalism," -Anna Lembke
"First, radical honesty promotes awareness of our actions. Second, it fosters intimate human connections. Third, it leads to a truthful autobiography, which holds us accountable not just to our present but also to our future selves. Further, telling the truth is contagious, and might even prevent the development of future addiction." -Anna Lembke
"The way I understand this is by differentiating what I call the plenty versus the scarcity mindset. Truth-telling engenders a plenty mindset. Lying engenders a scarcity mindset. I'll explain. When the people around us are reliable and tell us the truth, including keeping promises they've made to us, we feel more confident about the world and our own future in it. We feel we can rely not just on them but also on the world to be an orderly, predictable, safe kind of a place. Even in the midst of scarcity, we feel confident that things will turn out okay. This is a plenty mindset." -Anna Lembke
"Along similar lines, Neil Postman, the author of the 1980s classic Amusing Ourselves to Death, wrote, 'Americans no longer talk to each other, they entertain each other. They do not exchange ideas, they exchange images. They do not argue with propositions; they argue with good looks, celebrities, and commercials." -Anna Lembke
"The phylogenetically uber-ancient neurological machinery for processingpleasure and pain has remained largely intact throughout evolution andacross species. It is perfectly adapted for a world of scarcity. Withoutpleasure we wouldn't eat, drink, or reproduce. Without pain we wouldn'tprotect ourselves from injury and death. By raising our neural set point with repeated pleasures, we become endless strivers, never satisfied with what we have, always looking for more." -Anna Lembke
"A study of skydivers compared to a control group (rowers) found that repeat skydivers were more likely to experience anhedonia, a lack of joy, in the rest of their lives." -Anna Lembke
"We must have faith that actions today that seem to have no impact in the present moment are in fact accumulating in a positive direction, which will be revealed to us only at some unknown time in the future." -Anna Lembke
"In his book Bad Religion, writer and religious scholar Ross Douthat describes our New Age 'God Within' theology as 'a faith that's at once cosmopolitan and comforting, promising all the pleasures of exoticism . . . without any of the pain . . . a mystical pantheism, in which God is an experience rather than a person. . . . It's startling how little moral exhortation there is in the pages of the God Within literature. There are frequent calls to 'compassion' and 'kindness,' but little guidance for people facing actual dilemmas. And what guidance there is often amounts to 'if it feels good, do it." -Anna Lembke
"Telling the truth draws people in, especially when we're willing to expose our own vulnerabilities…People come closer. They see in our brokenness their own vulnerability and humanity. They are reassured that they are not alone in their doubts, fears, and weaknesses." -Anna Lembke
"Using blood samples, the researchers showed that plasma (blood) dopamine concentrations increased 250 percent, and plasma norepinephrine concentrations increased 530 percent as a result of cold-water immersion. Dopamine rose gradually and steadily over the course of the cold bath and remained elevated for an hour afterward. Norepinephrine rose precipitously in the first thirty minutes, plateaued in the latter thirty minutes, and dropped by about a third in the hour afterward, but it remained elevated well above baseline even into the second hour after the bath." -Anna Lembke
"Yet the evidence is overwhelming that exercise is health-promoting, and the absence of exercise, especially combined with chronic sedentary feeding--eating too much all day long--is deadly." -Anna Lembke
"El equilibrio placer-dolor se ve afectado no solo por la reexposición a la droga en sí, sino también por la exposición a estímulos asociados con el consumo de drogas. En Alcohólicos Anónimos (AA), la expresión para describir este fenómeno es «personas, lugares y cosas». En el mundo de la neurociencia se lo denomina" -Anna Lembke
"How strange would appear to be this thing that men call pleasure! And how curiously it is related to what is thought to be its opposite, pain! The two will never be found together in a man, and yet if you seek the one and obtain it, you are almost bound always to get the other as well, just as though they were both attached to one and the same head. . . . Wherever the one is found, the other follows up behind. So, in my case, since I had pain in my leg as a result of the fetters, pleasure seems to have come to follow it up." -Anna Lembke
"The medication naltrexone is used to treat alcohol and opioid addiction, and is being used for a variety of other addictions as well, from gambling to overeating to shopping. Naltrexone blocks the opioid receptor, which in turn diminishes the reinforcing effects of different types of rewarding behavior. I've had patients report a near or complete cessation of alcohol craving with naltrexone. For patients who have struggled for decades with this problem, the ability to not drink at all, or to drink in moderation like 'normal people,' comes as a revelation." -Anna Lembke
"An expected reward that failed to materialize is worse than a reward that was never anticipated in the first place." -Anna Lembke
"Neuroscientist Nora Volkow and colleagues have shown that heavy, prolonged consumption of high dopamine substances eventually leads to a dopamine deficit-state." -Anna Lembke
"A truthful self-inventory leads not only to a better understanding our own shortcomings. It also allows us to more objectively appraise and respond to the shortcomings of others." -Anna Lembke
"Balance The relentless pursuit of pleasure (and avoidance of pain) leads to pain. Recovery begins with abstinence. Abstinence resets the brain's reward pathway and with it our capacity to take joy in simpler pleasures. Self-binding creates literal and metacognitive space between desire and consumption, a modern necessity in our dopamine-overloaded world. Medications can restore homeostasis, but consider what we lose by medicating away our pain. Pressing on the pain side resets our balance to the side of pleasure. Beware of getting addicted to pain. Radical honesty promotes awareness, enhances intimacy, and fosters a plenty mindset. Prosocial shame affirms that we belong to the human tribe. Instead of running away from the world, we can find escape by immersing ourselves in it." -Anna Lembke
"Dopamine levels below baseline drive craving. Craving translates into purposeful activity to obtain the drug." -Anna Lembke
"Dopamine consumption is not just a way to fill the hours not spent working. It has also become a reason why people are not participating in the workforce." -Anna Lembke
"encounter with the drug dealer pretending to be a doctor was the moment he realized he had become a drug addict pretending to be a patient." -Anna Lembke
"A key to well-being is for us to get off the couch and move our real bodies, not our virtual ones... That's because the evidence is indisputable: Exercise has a more profound and sustained positive effect on mood, anxiety, cognition, energy, and sleep than any pill I can prescribe." -Anna Lembke