"By three methods we may learn wisdom: First, by reflection, which is noblest; Second, by imitation, which is easiest; and third by experience, which is the bitterest." -Confucius
"It does not matter how slowly you go as long as you do not stop." -Confucius
"Everything has beauty, but not everyone sees it." -Confucius
"Wheresoever you go, go with all your heart." -Confucius
"He who knows all the answers has not been asked all the questions." -Confucius
"The man who moves a mountain begins by carrying away small stones." -Confucius
"Life is really simple, but we insist on making it complicated." -Confucius
"If you make a mistake and do not correct it, this is called a mistake." -Confucius
"Study the past if you would define the future." -Confucius
"The funniest people are the saddest ones" -Confucius
"Before you embark on a journey of revenge, dig two graves." -Confucius
"To be wronged is nothing, unless you continue to remember it." -Confucius
"Respect yourself and others will respect you." -Confucius
"The man who asks a question is a fool for a minute, the man who does not ask is a fool for life." -Confucius
"When you see a good person, think of becoming like her/him. When you see someone not so good, reflect on your own weak points." -Confucius
"Attack the evil that is within yourself, rather than attacking the evil that is in others." -Confucius
"Silence is a true friend who never betrays." -Confucius
"You cannot open a book without learning something." -Confucius
"What the superior man seeks is in himself; what the small man seeks is in others." -Confucius
"I hear and I forget. I see and I remember. I do and I understand." -Confucius
"The hardest thing of all is to find a black cat in a dark room, especially if there is no cat." -Confucius
"We have two lives, and the second begins when we realize we only have one." -Confucius
"Music produces a kind of pleasure which human nature cannot do without." -Confucius
"The gem cannot be polished without friction, nor man perfected without trials." -Confucius
"Give a bowl of rice to a man and you will feed him for a day. Teach him how to grow his own rice and you will save his life." -Confucius
"The way out is through the door. Why is it that no one will use this method?" -Confucius
"It is not the failure of others to appreciate your abilities that should trouble you, but rather your failure to appreciate theirs." -Confucius
"The man of wisdom is never of two minds;the man of benevolence never worries;the man of courage is never afraid." -Confucius
"Only the wisest and stupidest of men never change." -Confucius
"It is more shameful to distrust our friends than to be deceived by them." -Confucius
"Real knowledge is to know the extent of one's ignorance." -Confucius
"And remember, no matter where you go, there you are." -Confucius
"If what one has to say is not better than silence, then one should keep silent." -Confucius
"Hold faithfulness and sincerity as first principles." -Confucius
"To be wealthy and honored in an unjust society is a disgrace." -Confucius
"Better a diamond with a flaw than a pebble without." -Confucius
"To put the world in order, we must first put the nation in order; to put the nation in order, we must first put the family in order; to put the family in order; we must first cultivate our personal life; we must first set our hearts right." -Confucius
"When it is obvious that the goals cannot be reached, don't adjust the goals, adjust the action steps." -Confucius
"Forget injuries, never forget kindnesses." -Confucius
"Don't do unto others what you don't want done unto you." -Confucius
"If your plan is for one year plant rice. If your plan is for ten years plant trees. If your plan is for one hundred years educate children. " -Confucius
"In a country well governed, poverty is something to be ashamed of. In a country badly governed, wealth is something to be ashamed of." -Confucius
"A lion chased me up a tree, and I greatly enjoyed the view from the top." -Confucius
"Education breeds confidence. Confidence breeds hope. Hope breeds peace." -Confucius
"The beginning of wisdom is to call things by their proper name." -Confucius
"To see what is right and not do it is the worst cowardice." -Confucius
"When a wise man points at the moon the imbecile examines the finger." -Confucius
"The superior man thinks always of virtue; the common man thinks of comfort." -Confucius
"Time flows away like the water in the river. " -Confucius
"Don't complain about the snow on your neighbor's roof when your own doorstep is unclean." -Confucius
"It is easy to hate and it is difficult to love. This is how the whole scheme of things works. All good things are difficult to achieve; and bad things are very easy to get." -Confucius
"He who conquers himself is the mightiest warrior." -Confucius
"Learning without thought is labour lost; thought without learning is perilous." -Confucius
"The Master said, 'A true gentleman is one who has set his heart upon the Way. A fellow who is ashamed merely of shabby clothing or modest meals is not even worth conversing with.'(Analects 4.9)" -Confucius
"The Man who says he can, and the man who says he can not.. Are both correct" -Confucius
"Without knowing the force of words, it is impossible to know more." -Confucius
"The superior man is modest in his speech, but exceeds in his actions." -Confucius
"Tzu Chang asked Confucius about jen. Confucius said, ""If you can practice these five things with all the people, you can be called jen.""Tzu Chang asked what they were.Confucius said, ""Courtesy, generosity, honesty, persistence, and kindness.If you are courteous, you will not be disrespected; if you are generous, you will gain everything. If you are honest, people will rely on you. If you are persistent you will get results. If you are kind, you can employ people." -Confucius
"Have no friends not equal to yourself." -Confucius
"Consideration for others is the basis of a good life, a good society." -Confucius
"Never give a sword to a man who can't dance." -Confucius
"The noble-minded are calm and steady. Little people are forever fussing and fretting." -Confucius
"If you are the smartest person in the room, then you are in the wrong room." -Confucius
"The nobler sort of man emphasizes the good qualities in others, and does not accentuate the bad. The inferior does." -Confucius
"roads were made for journeys not destinations" -Confucius
"The superior man understands what is right; the inferior man understands what will sell." -Confucius
"The Master said, 'If your conduct is determined solely by considerations of profit you will arouse great resentment." -Confucius
"The Master said, 'A true teacher is one who, keeping the past alive, is also able to understand the present.'(Analects 2.11)" -Confucius
"Worry not that no one knows you; seek to be worth knowing." -Confucius
"A common man marvels at uncommon things. A wise man marvels at the commonplace." -Confucius
"The strength of a nation derives from the integrity of the home." -Confucius
"If there is righteousness in the heart, there will be beauty in the character.If there is beauty in the character, there will be harmony in the home.If there is harmony in the home, there will be order in the nations.When there is order in the nations, there will peace in the world." -Confucius
"Those who know the TRUTH are not equal to those who love it." -Confucius
"By nature, men are nearly alike; by practice, they get to be wide apart." -Confucius
"Behind every smile there's teeth." -Confucius
"When the wind blows,the grass bends." -Confucius
"He Who Knows And Knows That He Knows Is A Wise Man - Follow Him;He Who Knows Not And Knows Not That He Knows Not Is A Fool - Shun Him" -Confucius
"If one should desire to know whether a kingdom is well governed, if its morals are good or bad, the quality of its music will furnish the answer." -Confucius
"Knowledge is merely brilliance in organization of ideas and not wisdom. The truly wise person goes beyond knowledge." -Confucius
"The Master said, 'The gentleman understands what is right, whereas the petty man understands profit.'(Analects 4.16)" -Confucius
"Fix your mind on truth, hold firm to virtue, rely on loving kindness, and find your recreation in the Arts." -Confucius
"Settle one difficulty, and you keep a hundred away." -Confucius
"The green reed which bends in the wind is stronger than the mighty oak which breaks in a storm." -Confucius
"No lake so still but it has its wave.No circle so perfect but that it has its blur.I would change things for you if I could; As I can't you must take them as they are." -Confucius
"If you look into your own heart, and you find nothing wrong there, what is there to worry about? What is there to fear?" -Confucius
"The way of the superior person is threefold; virtuous, they are free from anxieties; wise they are free from perplexities; and bold they are free from fear." -Confucius
"Ignorance is the night of the mind, but a night without moon or star." -Confucius
"Learn as if you were not reaching your goal and as though you were scared of missing it" -Confucius
"You will never know how sharp a sword is unless it's drawn from its sheath" -Confucius
"Never contract friendship with a man that is not better than thyself. " -Confucius
"Wherever you go, go with all your heart." -Confucius
"Faced with what is right, to leave it undone shows a lack of courage." -Confucius
"The superior man, when resting in safety, does not forget that danger may come. When in a state of security he does not forget the possibility of ruin. When all is orderly, he does not forget that disorder may come. Thus his person is not endangered, and his States and all their clans are preserved." -Confucius
"One joy dispels a hundred cares." -Confucius
"A youth is to be regarded with respect. How do we know that his future will not be equal to our present?" -Confucius
"Some are born with knowledge, some derive it from study, and some acquire it only after a painful realization of their ignorance.But the knowledge being possessed, it comes to the same thing.Some study with a natural ease, some from a desire for advantages, and some by strenuous effort.But the achievement being made, it comes to the same thing." -Confucius
"Be not ashamed of mistakes and thus make them crimes." -Confucius
"The scholar does not consider gold and jade to be precious treasures, but loyalty and good faith." -Confucius
"If there were one word that could act as a standard of conduct for one's entire life, perhaps it would be 'thoughtfulness." -Confucius
"At fifteen I set my heart upon learning. At thirty, I had planted my feet firm upon the ground. At forty, I no longer suffered from perplexities. At fifty, I knew what were the biddings of Heaven. At sixty, I heard them with docile ear. At seventy, I could follow the dictates of my own heart; for what I desired no longer overstepped the boundaries of right." -Confucius
"If you don't want to do something,don't impose on others" -Confucius
"he who will not economize will have to agonize" -Confucius
"To be able under all circumstances to practice five things constitutes perfect virtue; these five things are gravity, generosity of soul, sincerity, earnestness and kindness." -Confucius
"Without feelings of respect, what is there to distinguish men from beasts?" -Confucius
"We take greater pains to persuade others that we are happy than in endeavoring to think so ourselves" -Confucius
"Lead the people with administrative injunctions and put them in their place with penal law, and they will avoid punishments but will be without a sense of shame. Lead them with excellence and put them in their place through roles and ritual practices, and in addition to developing a sense of shame, they will order themselves harmoniously" -Confucius
"The Essence of Knowledge is, having it, to use it." -Confucius
"They must often change who would remain constant in happiness and wisdom." -Confucius
"Ability will never catch up with the demand for it." -Confucius
"We should keep the dead before our eyes, and honor them as though still living" -Confucius
"Don't use cannon to kill musquito." -Confucius
"Your life is what your thoughts make it." -Confucius
"Signs and symbols rule the world, not words nor laws." -Confucius
"I want you to be everything that's you, deep at the center of your being.''Life is really simple, but we insist on making it complicated" -Confucius
"A man without a mustache is a man without a soul." -Confucius
"Speak the truth, do not yield to anger; give, if thou art asked for little; by these three steps thou wilt go near the gods.راست بگو، تسليم خشم نشو، اگر از تو كم خواستند ببخش؛ با اين سه به خدايان مي رسي" -Confucius
"He who searches for evil, must first look at his own reflection." -Confucius
"Learning without thinking is useless. Thinking without learning is dangerous." -Confucius
"When you have faults, do not fear to abandon them." -Confucius
"He who speaks without modesty will find it difficult to make his words good." -Confucius
"I am not concerned that I am not known; I seek to be worthy to be known." -Confucius
"The superior man has a dignified ease without pride. The mean man has pride without a dignified ease." -Confucius
"Anyone can find the switch after the lights are on." -Confucius
"Never tire to study. And to teach to others" -Confucius
"A man of humanity is one who, in seeking to establish himself, finds a foothold for others and who, in desiring attaining himself, helps others to attain." -Confucius
"The journey with a 1000 miles begins with one step." -Confucius
"Be strict with yourself but least reproachful of others and complaint is kept afar." -Confucius
"Virtue is never left to stand alone. He who has it will have neighbors." -Confucius
"He who flatters a man is his enemy. he who tells him of his faults is his maker." -Confucius
"Act with kindness but do not expect gratitude." -Confucius
"When a person should be spoken with, and you don't speak with them, you lose them. When a person shouldn't be spoken with and you speak to them, you waste your breath. The wise do not lose people, nor do they waste their breath." -Confucius
"The scholar who cherishes the love of comfort is not fit to be deemed a scholar." -Confucius
"If there were an honorable way to get rich, I'd do it, even if it meant being a stooge standing around with a whip. But there isn't an honorable way, so I just do what I like." -Confucius
"People with virtue must speak out; People who speak are not all virtuous." -Confucius
"I followed my heart without breaking any rules." -Confucius
"Not to discuss with a man worthy of conversation is to waste the man. To discuss with a man not worthy of conversation is to waste words. The wise waste neither men nor words." -Confucius
"The demands that good people make are upon themselves;Those that bad people make are upon others." -Confucius
"All people are the same; only their habits differ." -Confucius
"Humankind differs from the animals only by a little and most people throw that away." -Confucius
"Tsze-Kung asked, 'Is there one word with which to act in accordance throughout a lifetime?' The Master said, 'Is not reciprocity such a word? What you do not want done to yourself, do not do to others." -Confucius
"For this reason the gentleman will employ a man on a distant mission and observe his degree of loyalty, will employ him close at hand and observe his degree of respect. He will hand him troublesome affairs and observe how well he manages them, will suddenly ask his advice and observe how wisely he answers. He will exact some difficult promise from him and see how well he keeps it, turn over funds to him and see with what benevolence he dispenses them, inform him of the danger he is in and note how faithful he is to his duties. He will get him drunk with wine and observe how well he handles himself, place him in mixed company and see what effect beauty has upon him. By applying these nine tests, you may determine who is the unworthy man." -Confucius
"It is only when mosquito land on your balls that you realize there is a way to solve problems without using violence." -Confucius
"Looking at small advantages prevents great affairs from being accomplished." -Confucius
"A superior man in dealing with the world is not for anything or against anything. He follows righteousness as the standard." -Confucius
"To see and listen to the wicked is already the beginning of wickedness" -Confucius
"If you expect great things of yourself and demand little of others, you'll keep resentment far away." -Confucius
"I used to take on trust a man's deeds after having listened to his words. Now having listened to a man's words I go on to observe his deeds." -Confucius
"The expectations of life depend upon diligence the mechanic that would perfect his work must first sharpen his tools. " -Confucius
"As the water shapes itself to the vessel that contains it, so a wise man adapts himself to circumstances." -Confucius
"A man without persistence will never make a good shaman or a good physician." -Confucius
"A man without persistence will never make a good shaman or a good physician." -Confucius
"It is when those who are not strong enough have made some moderate amount of progress that they fail and give up..." -Confucius
"The cautious seldom err." -Confucius
"Writing cannot express all words, words cannot encompass all ideas." -Confucius
"To be poor without murmuring is difficult. To be rich without being proud is easy." -Confucius
"Coarse rice to eat, water to drink, my bended arm for a pillow - therein is happiness. Wealth and rank attained through immoral means are nothing but drifting clouds." -Confucius
"The more man meditates upon good thoughts, the better will be his world and the world at large." -Confucius
"Faithfulness and sincerity are the highest things." -Confucius
"Where words lose their meaning, people lose their lives." -Confucius
"Tell me and I will forget, show me and I may remember; involve me and I will understand." -Confucius
"Those who cannot forgive others break the bridge over which they themselves must pass." -Confucius
"Things have their roots and branches. Affairs have their beginnings and their ends. To know what is first and what is last will lead one near the Way." -Confucius
"If your desire is for good, the people will be good." -Confucius
"If I understand Change, I shall make no great mistake in Life" -Confucius
"The man who chases two rabbits, catches neither." -Confucius
"Return good for good; return evil with justice." -Confucius
"If I am walking with two other men, each of them will serve as my teacher. I will pick out the good points of the one and imitate them, and the bad points of the other and correct them in myself." -Confucius
"When everyone hates a person, you should investigate thoroughly, and when everyone loves a person, you should also investigate thoroughly." -Confucius
"I am not an originator but a transmitter." -Confucius
"You can force the people to obey; you cannot force them to understand." -Confucius
"There is nothing more real than what cannot be seen and there is nothing more certain than what cannot be heard." -Confucius
"If either wealth or poverty are come by honesty, there is no shame." -Confucius
"On a deux vies et la deuxième commence le jour ou l'on se rend compte qu'on n'en a qu'une." -Confucius
"A youth is to be regarded with respect. How do we know that his future will not be equal to our present? If he reach the age of forty or fifty, and has not made himself heard of, then indeed he will not be worth being regarded with respect." -Confucius
"To study and constantly, is this not a pleasure? To have friends come from far away places, is this not a joy? If people do not recognize your worth, but this does not worry you, are you not a true gentleman?" -Confucius
"Care not for want of place; care for thy readiness to fill one. Care not for being unknown, but seek to be worthy of note." -Confucius
"What can a man do with music who is not benevolent?" -Confucius
"The Master said, 'To study, and then in a timely fashion to practice what you have learned—is this not satisfying? To have companions arrive from afar—is this not a joy? To remain unrecognized by others and yet remain free of resentment—is this not the mark of the gentleman?'(Analects 1.1)" -Confucius
"I want you to be everything that's you, deep at the center of your being." -Confucius
"Choose a job you love, and you will never have to work a day in your life." -Confucius
"¿Me preguntas por qué compro arroz y flores?Compro arroz para vivir y flores para tener algo por lo que vivir." -Confucius
"Imagination is more important than knowledge." -Confucius
"No matter how busy you make think you are you must find time for reading, or surrender yourself to self-chosen ignorance" -Confucius
"Without an acquaintance with the rules of propriety, it is impossible for the character to be established" -Confucius
"There are some with whom we may study in common, but we shall find them unable to go along with us to principles. Perhaps we may go on with them to principles, but we shall find them unable to get established in those along with us. Or if we may get so established along with them, we shall find them unable to weigh occurring events along with us." -Confucius
"Men do not stumble over mountains, but over molehills." -Confucius
"Think of tomorrow, the past can't be mended." -Confucius
"The book salesman should be honored because he brings to our attention, as a rule, the very books we need most and neglect most." -Confucius
"The superior man acts before he speaks, and afterwards speaks according to his actions." -Confucius
"A man should demand much from himself, but little from others. When you meet a man of worth, think how you may attain to his excellence. When you meet an unworthy one, then look within and examine yourself." -Confucius
"Words are the voice of the heart." -Confucius
"Learn advidly. Question it repeatedly. Analyze it carefully. Then put what you have learned into practice intelligently." -Confucius
"Nothing is more visible than things hidden; Nothing is more manifest than things minute; Therefore, the superior man should be aware of his aloneness" -Confucius
"Walking among three people, I find my teacher among them. I choose that which is good in them and follow it, and that which is bad and change it." -Confucius
"When we see men of a contrary character, we should turn inwards and examine ourselves." -Confucius
"If names be not correct, language is not in accordance with the truth of things. If language be not in accordance with the truth of things, affairs cannot be carried on to success. When affairs cannot be carried on to success, proprieties and music do not flourish." -Confucius
"In his dealings with the world, the gentleman is not invariably for or against anything. He is on the side of what is moral." -Confucius
"Things being investigated, knowledge became complete. Their knowledge being complete, their thoughts were sincere. Their thoughts being sincere, their hearts were then rectified. Their hearts being rectified, their persons were cultivated. Their persons being cultivated, their families were regulated. Their families being regulated, their States were rightly governed. Their States being rightly governed, the whole kingdom was made tranquil and happy." -Confucius
"Don't grieve when people fail to recognize your ability. Grieve for your lack of ability instead." -Confucius
"How can you love people without encouraging them? And how can you be loyal to people without educating them." -Confucius
"Wisdom, compassion, and courage are the three universally recognized moral qualities of man." -Confucius
"Every man has two lives, and the second starts when he realizes he has just one" -Confucius
"I slept and dreamt life is beauty, I woke and found life is duty." -Confucius
"Fine words and an insinuating appearance are seldom associated with true virtue." -Confucius
"If a craftsman wants to do good work, he must first sharpen his tools." -Confucius
"You are what you think." -Confucius
"That a man lives is because he is straight. That a man who dupes others survives is because he has been fortunate enough to be spared." -Confucius
"The Master said, 'Wealth and honor are things that all people desire, and yet unless they are acquired in the proper way I will not abide them. Poverty and disgrace are things that all people hate, and yet unless they are avoided in the proper way I will not despise them. 'If the gentleman abandons ren, how can he be worthy of that name? The gentleman does not violate ren even for the amount of time required to eat a meal. Even in times of urgency or distress, he does not depart from it.'(Analects 4.5)" -Confucius
"I hate to tell but now is all there ever is." -Confucius
"The Master said, 'What a worthy man was Yan Hui! Living in a narrow alley, subsisting upon meager bits of rice and water—other people could not have borne such hardship, and yet it never spoiled Hui's joy. What a worthy man was Hui!'(Analects 6.11)" -Confucius
"Respect the gods and the devils but keep them at a distance" -Confucius
"At fifteen my mind was directed to study, and at thirty I knew where to stand." -Confucius
"The Master said of Gong Yechang, 'He is marriageable. Although he was once imprisoned and branded as a criminal, he was in fact innocent of any crime.' The Master gave him his daughter in marriage.(Analects 5.1)" -Confucius
"I hate to tell but now is all there ever is." -Confucius
"He who learns but does not think, is lost! He who thinks but does not learn is in great danger" -Confucius
"The Master said, 'What a worthy man was Yan Hui! Living in a narrow alley, subsisting upon meager bits of rice and water—other people could not have borne such hardship, and yet it never spoiled Hui's joy. What a worthy man was Hui!'(Analects 6.11)" -Confucius
"No matter how busy you may think you are, you must find time for reading, or surrender yourself to self-chosen ignorance." -Confucius
"To conceal resentment against a person, and appear friendly with him;— Tso Ch'iu-ming was ashamed of such conduct." -Confucius
"The gentleman does not promote people merely on the basis of their words, nor does he reject words merely because of the person who uttered them." -Confucius
"Die Wahrheit hat keinen Erfolg." -Confucius
"One who never anticipates deceit or expects duplicity, and yet is the first to recognize such things – is that not a sage indeed?" -Confucius
"To rank the effort above the prize may be called love." -Confucius
"The noble-minded worry about their lack of ability, not about people's failure to recognize their ability." -Confucius
"Success depends upon previous preparation." -Confucius
"If you did not do so for the sake of riches,You must have done so for the sake of novelty." -Confucius
"In worthy teaching, all things are related." -Confucius
"He who is concerned only with the purity of his own life ruins the great human relations." -Confucius
"There is never a case when the root is in order and yet the branches are in order" -Confucius
"When you know a thing, to hold that you know it; and when you do not know a thing, to allow that you do not know it--this is knowledge." -Confucius
"The wise never doubt. The Humane never worry. The brave never fear." -Confucius
"Let a ruler base his government upon virtuous principles, and he will be like the pole-star, which remains steadfast in its place, while all the host of stars turn towards it" -Confucius
"If an urn lacks the characteristics of an urn, how can we call it an urn?" -Confucius
"The one who teaches is the giver of eyes." -Confucius
"Even four harnessed horses cannot bring imprudent words back into the mouth." -Confucius
"The Master said, 'The gentleman does not serve as a vessel.'(Analects 2.12)" -Confucius
"Better light a candle than curse the darkness." -Confucius
"You are not yet able to serve men, how can you serve spirits?" -Confucius
"If I am walking with two people, both will be my teachers" -Confucius
"Don't worry if you have no position: worry about making yourself worthy of one. Don't worry if you aren't known and admired: devote yourself to a life that deserves admiration." -Confucius
"The Master said, ""I have not seen a person who loved virtue, or onewho hated what was not virtuous. He who loved virtue, would esteemnothing above it. He who hated what is not virtuous, would practicevirtue in such a way that he would not allow anything that is notvirtuous to approach his person.""Is any one able for one day to apply his strength to virtue? I havenot seen the case in which his strength would be insufficient.""Should there possibly be any such case, I have not seen it." -Confucius
"A conversa impregnada de vaidade e o pretensiosismo são raramente compatíveis com a virtude." -Confucius
"Don't worry if you have no position: worry about making yourself worthy of one. Don't worry if you aren't known and admired: devote yourself to a life that deserves admiration." -Confucius
"Wenn du weißt, behaupte, dass du es weißt. Und wenn du etwas nicht weißt, gib zu, dass du es nicht weißt. Das ist Wissen." -Confucius
"Poor food and water for dinner, a bent arm for a pillow – that is where joy resides. For me, wealth and renown without honor are nothing but drifting clouds." -Confucius
"If a man be without the virtues proper to humanity, what has he to do with music?" -Confucius
"Who can (make) the muddy water (clear)? Let it be still, and it will gradually become clear." -Confucius
"I am not one who was born with great wisdom. I love the ancients and diligently seek wisdom among them." -Confucius
"Lernen und nicht denken ist nichtig, denken und nicht lernen ist ermüdend." -Confucius
"To one who is not eager I do not reveal anything, nor do I explain anything to one who is not communicative. If I raise one corner for someone and he cannot come back with the other three, I do not go on." -Confucius
"Mankind differs from the animals only by a little and most people throw that away." -Confucius
"Zuviel ist gerade so falsch wie zuwenig." -Confucius
"Aprender sin pensar es inútil. Pensar sin aprender peligroso" -Confucius
"He who studies but does not think is lost; he who thinks but does not study is dangerous." -Confucius
"Do everything in moderation, even moderation." -Confucius
"The noble-minded are all-encompassing, not stuck in doctrines. Little people are stuck in doctrines." -Confucius
"The noble-minded encourage what is beautiful in people and discourage what is ugly in them. Little people do just the opposite." -Confucius
"Conduct thyself always with the same prudence as though thou went observed by ten eyes and pointed at by ten fingers" -Confucius
"Insecurity is worse than poverty." -Confucius
"It is more shameful to distrust our friends than to be deceived by them.ConfuciusThis is a major problem in America, where greed, power, and money are the highest value. This creates a paranoia atmosphere.I mention this all the time, but first time I have ever seen it." -Confucius
"Naming enables the noble-minded to speak, and speech enables the noble-minded to act. Therefore, the noble-minded are anything but careless in speech." -Confucius
"The Master said, Guide the people by law, aline them by punishment; they may shun crime, but they will want shame. Guide them by mind, aline them by courtesy; they will learn shame and grow good." -Confucius
"A noble minded person is not an implement." -Confucius
"Al cielo non chiedo altro che una casa piena di libri e un giardino pieno di fiori" -Confucius
"Una voz fuerte no puede competir con una voz clara, aunque esta sea un simple murmullo." -Confucius
"In following the Way, the noble-minded treasure three things: a manner free of violence and arrogance, a countenance full of sincerity and trust, a voice free of vulgarity and impropriety." -Confucius
"Not to talk with people although they can be talked with is to waste people. To talk with people although they can't be talked with is to waste words. A man of understanding does not waste people, but he also does not waste words." -Confucius
"Ada yang mengukur hidup mereka dari hari dan tahun. Yang lain dengan denyut jantung, gairah, dan air mata. Tetapi ukuran sejati di bawah mentari adalah apa yang telah engkau lakukan dalam hidup ini untuk orang lain." -Confucius
"What is the good of being ready with the tongue? They who encounter men with smartnesses of speech for the most part procure themselves hatred. I know not whether he be truly virtuous, but why should he show readiness of the tongue?" -Confucius
"The wise are free from perplexities; the virtuous from anxiety; and the bold from fear." -Confucius
"They will do; but they are not equal to him, who, though poor, is yet cheerful, and to him, who, though rich, loves the rules of propriety." -Confucius
"A legendary horse is praised not for its strength, but for its Integrity." -Confucius
"Treue gegen sich selbst und Gütigkeit gegen Andere: Darin ist alles befasst." -Confucius
"There are those who act without knowing; I will have none of this. To hear a lot, choose the good, and follow it, to see a lot and learn to recognize it: this is next knowledge." -Confucius
"When words lose their meaning, people lose their freedom." -Confucius
"The firm, the enduring, the simple, and the modest are near to virtue." -Confucius
"The noble-minded have nine states of mind: for eyes, bright; for ears, penetrating; for countenance; cordial; for demeanor, humble; for words, trustworthy; for service, reverent; for doubt, questioning; for anger circumspect; and for facing a chance to profit, moral." -Confucius
"Aspire to the principal, behave with virtue, abide by benevolence, and immerse yourself in the arts." -Confucius
"The noble minded act before speak, then they speak according to their actions." -Confucius
"If a man be without the virtues proper to humanity, what has he to do with the rites of propriety? If a man be without the virtues proper to humanity, what has he to do with music?" -Confucius
"Lord Chi Wen thought three times before taking any action. When the Master heard this, he said: Twice is plenty enough." -Confucius
"With coarse grain to eat, with water to drink, and my bended arm for a pillow: I still have joy in the midst of these things" -Confucius
"Wenn man noch nicht das Leben kennt, wie sollte man den Tod kennen." -Confucius
"He who exercises government by means of his virtue may be compared to the north polar star, which keeps its place and all the stars turn towards it." -Confucius
"Worthy admonitions cannot fail to inspire us, but what matters is changing ourselves. Reverent advice cannot fail to encourage us, but what matters is acting on it. Encouraged without acting, inspired without changing – there's nothing to be done for such people." -Confucius
"Omul care nu se gândeste sau nu prevede lucrurile îndepartate are necazuri aproape" -Confucius
"When respect is shown according to what is proper, one keeps far from shame and disgrace." -Confucius
"Yin and yang, male and female, strong and weak, rigid and tender, heaven and earth, light and darkness, thunder and lightning, cold and warmth, good and evil…the interplay of opposite principles constitutes the universe." -Confucius
"The ultimate revenge is living well and being happy. Hateful people can't stand happy people. Before you embark on a journey of revenge, dig two graves.'-" -Confucius
"Man who stand on hill with mouth open will wait long time for roast duck to drop in." -Confucius
"The faults of the superior man are like the eclipses of the sun and moon. He has his faults, and all men see them; he changes, and all men look up to him." -Confucius
"Kebanggaan kita yang terbesar adalah bukang tidak pernah gagal, tetapi bangkit kembali setiap kali kita jatuh." -Confucius
"He who wishes to secure the good of others, has already secured his own." -Confucius
"I am not worried that nobody knows me. I seek to become fit to be known" -Confucius
"He has not lived in vain who dies the day he is told about the Way." -Confucius
"The Master said: ‘Artful speech and an ingratiating demeanour rarely accompany virtue." -Confucius
"Study the past to define the future" -Confucius
"The Master said, 'Respectfulness, without the rules of propriety, becomes laborious bustle; carefulness, without the rules of propriety, becomes timidity; boldness, without the rules of propriety, becomes insubordination; straightforwardness, without the rules of propriety, becomes rudeness." -Confucius
"If you want to make a stand, help others make a stand, and if you want to reach your goal, help others reach their goal. Consider yourself and treat others accordingly: this is the method of Humanity." -Confucius
"If you look at their intentions, examine their motives, and scrutinize what brings them contentment – how can people hide who they are? How can they hide who they really are?" -Confucius
"Wenn man noch nicht den Menschen dienen kann, wie sollte man den Geistern dienen können?" -Confucius
"Among his own country folk Confucius wore a homely look, like one that has no word to say." -Confucius
"知之者不如好之者，好之者不如樂之者。''Knowing it does not compare with loving it; loving it does not compare with delighting in it." -Confucius
"Am I a man of great wisdom? Hardly! Even when a simple person brings me a question, my mind goes utterly blank, I just thrash it out until I've exhausted every possibility." -Confucius
"Una casa será fuerte e indestructible cuando esté sostenida por estas cuatro columnas: padre valiente, madre prudente, hijo obediente, hermano complaciente." -Confucius
"لاتفرض على الآخرين ماتكره أن تفرضه على نفسك" -Confucius
"To see what's right and not do it is cowardice." -Confucius
"Language is insight itself." -Confucius
"He that rules by mind is like the north star, steady in his seat, whilst the stars all bend to him." -Confucius
"قل إنك تعرف عندما تعرف، لكن قل إنك لاتعرف عندما لاتعرف.هذه هي المعرفة الحقيقية" -Confucius
"A man should say, I am not concerned that I have no place, I am concerned how I may fit myself for one. I am not concerned that I am not known, I seek to be worthy to be known." -Confucius
"عندما يصبح الأسياد فقراء فإنهم يحافظون على فضيلتهم، أما عندما يصبح الرجال العاديون فقراء فإنهم يتصرفون بشكل معاكس للفضيلة" -Confucius
"he had four of the characteristics of a superior man:— in his conduct of himself, he was humble; in serving his superiors, he was respectful; in nourishing the people, he was kind; in ordering the people, he was just." -Confucius
"The gentleman is dignified but not arrogant. The small man is arrogant but not digified" -Confucius
"Listen to all that you can – then, if you forget the deficiencies and speak about the rest cautiously, you avoid trouble. See all that you can – then, if you forget the perilous and act upon the rest cautiously, you'll avoid regret. In speech avoid trouble, in action avoid regret – then rewards will come of themselves." -Confucius
"Is it not indeed a pleasure to acquire knowledge and constantly to exercise oneself therein?" -Confucius
"The Master said, 'The gentleman harmonizes [he] without being an echo. The petty man echoes [tong] and does not harmonize." -Confucius
"Wo ein Gebildeter weilt, kann keine Rohheit aufkommen." -Confucius
"Things that are done, it is needless to speak about; things that have had their course, it is needless to remonstrate about; things that are past, it is needless to blame." -Confucius
"El pueblo antiguo que deseaba tener una clara armonía moral en el mundo, ordenaba primero su vida nacional; los que deseaban ordenar su vida nacional regulaban primero su vida familiar; los que deseaban regular su vida familiar cultivaban primero sus vidas personales; los que deseaban cultivar sus vidas personales enderezaban primero sus corazones; quienes deseaban enderezar sus corazones hacían primero sinceras sus voluntades; los que deseaban hacer sinceras sus voluntades llegaban primero a la comprensión; la comprensión proviene de la exploración del conocimiento de las cosas.Cuando se gana el conocimiento de las cosas se logra la comprensión; cuando se gana la comprensión, la voluntad es sincera; cuando la voluntad es sincera, el corazón se endereza; cuando el corazón se endereza, se cultiva la vida personal; cuando la vida personal se cultiva, se regula la vida familiar; cuando se regula la vida familiar, la vida nacional es ordenada, y cuando la vida nacional es ordenada, el mundo está en paz.Desde el Emperador hasta el hombre común, el cultivo de la vida personal es el cimiento para todo. Es imposible que cuando los cimientos no están en orden se halle en orden la superestructura. Jamás ha habido un árbol de tronco delgado cuyas ramas superiores sean pesadas y fuertes.Hay una causa y una secuencia en las cosas, y un comienzo y un fin en los asuntos humanos.Conocer el orden de precedencia es tener el comienzo de la sabiduría." -Confucius
"When we see men of worth, we should think of equalling them; when we see men of a contrary character, we should turn inwards and examine ourselves." -Confucius
"The nobler type of man is broad-minded and not prejudiced. The inferior man is prejudiced and not broad-minded." -Confucius
"Clever talk, ingratiating looks, fawning reverence: Tso-ch'iu Ming found that shameful, and so do I. Friendly while harboring resentment: Tso-ch'iu Ming found that shameful, too, and so do I." -Confucius
"No matter where you go, there you are." -Confucius
"The gentleman understands what is moral. The small man understands what is profitable." -Confucius
"Cuando veas un hombre bueno, trata de imitarle; cuando veas a uno malo, examínate a ti mismo" -Confucius
"The superior man is distressed by the limitations of his ability; he is not distressed by the fact that men do not recognize the ability that he has." -Confucius
"Dimmi e dimenticherò. Mostrami e ricorderò. Coinvolgimi e capirò." -Confucius
"الحكم يعني الإستقامة، ومن هو الشخص الذي يجرؤ على الانحراف إذا كنت مستقيماً." -Confucius
"The philosopher Zeng said, ""I daily examine myself on three points: whether, in transacting business for others, I may have been not faithful; whether, in intercourse with friends, I may have been not sincere; whether I may have not mastered and practiced the instructions of my teacher." -Confucius
"If the people be led by laws, and uniformity sought to be given them by punishments, they will try to avoid the punishment, but have no sense of shame. 2. 'If they be led by virtue, and uniformity sought to be given them by the rules of propriety, they will have the sense of shame, and moreover will become good." -Confucius
"No matter how busy you think you are, you must find time for reading, or surrender yourself to self-chosen ignorance." -Confucius
"He has not lived in vain who dies the day he is told about the Way" -Confucius
"Men's natures are alike; it is their habits that separate them." -Confucius
"No matter how busy you may think you are, you must find time for reading, or surrender yourself to self-chosen ignorance." -Confucius
"The Master was entirely free of four faults: arbitrariness, inflexibility, rigidity, and selfishness." -Confucius
"Es mejor encender una vela que maldecir la oscuridad." -Confucius
"Se regarder scrupuleusement soi-même, ne regarder que discrètement les autres." -Confucius
"LEARN AS THOUGH YOU WOULD NEVER BE ABLE TO MASTER IT" -Confucius
"Adept Lu spent a night at Stone Date, and the gatekeeper asked: Where are you from? From the House of Confucius, replied Lu. Isn't he the one who knows it's hopeless, but keeps trying anyway?" -Confucius
"The superior man, in the world, does not set his mind either for anything, or against anything; what is right he will follow." -Confucius
"The Master said, 'Can men refuse to assent to the words of strict admonition? But it is reforming the conduct because of them which is valuable. Can men refuse to be pleased with words of gentle advice? But it is unfolding their aim which is valuable. If a man be pleased with these words, but does not unfold their aim, and assents to those, but does not reform his conduct, I can really do nothing with him." -Confucius
"There are few men under heaven who can love and see the defects, or hate and see the excellence of an object." -Confucius
"When you make a promise consistent with what is right, you can keep your word. When you show respect consistent with good taste, you keep shame and disgrace at a distance. When he in whom you confide is one who does not fail his friends, you may trust him fully." -Confucius
"While they have not got their aims, their anxiety is how to get them. When they have got them, their anxiety is lest they should lose them." -Confucius
"Even when walking in the company of two other men, I am bound to be able to learn from them. The good points of the one I copy, the bad points of the other I correct in myself." -Confucius
"Vergiss Kränkungen, doch Vergiss Freundlichkeiten nie." -Confucius
"Si vos parents tombent dans une faute, avertissez-les avec grande douceur. Si vous les voyez déterminés à ne pas suivre vos avis, redoublez vos témoignages de respect, sans vous opposer. Quand même ils vous maltraiteraient, n'en ayez aucun ressentiment. " -Confucius
"To know what is first and what is last will lead near to what is taught in the Great Learning." -Confucius
"Tsz-lu said to the Master, ""As the prince of Wei, sir, has been waiting for you to act for him in his government, what is it your intention to take in hand first?""""One thing of necessity,"" he answered ""the rectification of terms.""""That!"" exclaimed Tsz-lu. ""How far away you are, sir! Why such rectification?""""What a rustic you are, Tsz-lu!"" rejoined the Master. ""A gentleman would be a little reserved and reticent in matters which he does not understand. If terms be incorrect, language will be incongruous; and if language be incongruous, deeds will be imperfect. So, again, when deeds are imperfect, propriety and harmony cannot prevail, and when this is the case laws relating to crime will fail in their aim; and if these last so fail, the people will not know where to set hand or foot. Hence, a man of superior mind, certain first of his terms, is fitted to speak; and being certain of what he says can proceed upon it. In the language of such a person there is nothing heedlessly irregular and that is the sum of the matter." -Confucius
"Senza Fermezza, il gentiluomo non riscuote rispetto ed il suo sapere non sarà ascoltato. | Preconizzando lealtà e fidatezza, non avrà amici che sono simili a se stesso. | Non esiterà a correggere i suoi errori" -Confucius
"Aquellos de espíritu superior entienden la justicia. Los ordinarios, el beneficio." -Confucius
"What you don´t want done to yourself, do not do to others." -Confucius
"Wishing to regulate their families, they first cultivated their persons. Wishing to cultivate their persons, they first rectified their hearts. Wishing to rectify their hearts, they first sought to be sincere in their thoughts. Wishing to be sincere in their thoughts, they first extended to the utmost their knowledge. Such extension of knowledge lay in the investigation of things." -Confucius
"cautiously, you avoid trouble. See all that you can – then, if you forget the perilous and" -Confucius
"If the will be set on virtue, there will be no practice of wickedness." -Confucius
"Knowing it does not compare with loving it; loving it does not compare with delighting in it." -Confucius
"Wishing to regulate their families, they first cultivated their persons. Wishing to cultivate their persons, they first rectified their hearts. Wishing to rectify their hearts, they first sought to be sincere in their thoughts. Wishing to be sincere in their thoughts, they first extended to the utmost their knowledge." -Confucius
"On peut obliger le peuple à obéir. On ne peut pas le forcer à comprendre." -Confucius
"Exige beaucoup de toi-même et attend peu des autres. Beaucoup d'ennuis te seront épargnés." -Confucius
"Do not do to others what you do not want them to do to you." -Confucius
"Their persons being cultivated, their families were regulated. Their families being regulated, their states were rightly governed. Their states being rightly governed, the whole kingdom was made tranquil and happy." -Confucius
"Music produces a kind of pleasure which human nature cannot do without.- Confucius" -Confucius
"Choose a job you love and you'll never have to work a day in your life" -Confucius
"Если ваш язык неточен, тогда говорится одно, а подразумевается другое; Когда же говорится одно, а подразумевается другое, тогда то, что следовало бы сделать, остается несделанным." -Confucius
"I daily examine myself on three points:— whether, in transacting business for others, I may have been not faithful;— whether, in intercourse with friends, I may have been not sincere;— whether I may have not mastered and practised the instructions of my teacher." -Confucius
"A man whose strength gives out collapses along the course. In your case you set the limits beforehand." -Confucius
"The cock, that is the trumpet to the morn, Doth with his lofty and shrill-sounding throat Awake the god of day; and, at his warning, Whether in sea or fire, in earth or air, The extravagant and erring spirit hies To his confine: and of the truth herein This present object made probation." -Confucius
"Sincerity is the end and beginning of things; without sincerity there would be nothing." -Confucius
"The Master is cordial yet stern, awe-inspiring yet not fierce and respectful yet at ease." -Confucius
"敬鬼神而遠之'while respecting spiritual beings, to keep aloof from them" -Confucius
"I do not open up the truth to one who is not eager to get knowledge, nor help out anyone who is not anxious to explain himself. When I have presented one corner of a subject to anyone, and he cannot from it learn the other three, I do not repeat my lesson." -Confucius
"Those who understand a thing are not equal to those who are fond of it, and those who are fond of it are not equal to those who delight in it." -Confucius
"Avant d'ouvrir la bouche, assure-toi que ce que tu vas dire est plus beau que le silence." -Confucius
"子曰：「學而時習之　不亦說乎　有朋自遠方來　不亦樂乎　人不知而不慍　不亦君子乎」 — 論語" -Confucius
"古之學者為己，今之學者為人" -Confucius
"Confucius said, ""When good government prevails in the empire, ceremonies, music, and punitive military expeditions proceed from the son of Heaven. When bad government prevails in the empire, ceremonies, music, and punitive military expeditions proceed from the princes. When these things proceed from the princes, as a rule, the cases will be few in which they do not lose their power in ten generations. When they proceed from the great officers of the princes, as a rule, the case will be few in which they do not lose their power in five generations. When the subsidiary ministers of the great officers hold in their grasp the orders of the state, as a rule the cases will be few in which they do not lose their power in three generations. When right principles prevail in the kingdom, government will not be in the hands of the great officers. When right principles prevail in the kingdom, there will be no discussions among the common people.""16-2" -Confucius
"You yourself desire rank and standing; then help others to get rank and standing. You want to turn your merits to account; then help others to turn theirs to account." -Confucius
"A man is great not because he hasn't failed; a man is great because failure hasn't stopped him." -Confucius
"American beer like sex on boat. Both fucking close to water." -Confucius
"An educated woman is a worthless woman." -Confucius
"The Master said, 'You [Zilu], do you know what I have been trying to teach you? To say that you know something when you know it and to say that you do not know something when you do not know it—this is true knowing [zhi]." -Confucius
"Adevărata cunoaștere este a-ți ști dimensiunea ignoranței." -Confucius
"Tzu-chang[21] asked whether we can know what is to be ten generations hence. The Master said, The Yin[22] took over the manners of the Hsia; the harm and the good that they did them can be known. The Chou took over the manners of the Yin; the harm and the good that they did them can be known. And we may know what shall be, even an hundred generations hence, whoever follows Chou." -Confucius
"When the Master entered the great temple he asked about everything. Someone said, ‘Who will say that this son of the man of Zou knows about ritual? When he enters the temple, he asks about everything'. The Master heard of it and said, ‘This is the ritual'." -Confucius
"To see high merit and be unable to raise it to office, to raise it but not to give such promotion precedence, is just destiny." -Confucius
"It is better to light one small candle than to curse the darkeness" -Confucius
"He was a man, take him for all in all, I shall not look upon his like again." -Confucius
"Give me a few more years so that I am studying at fifty, and surely I may avoid major errors." -Confucius
"Quando le parole perdono di senso, i popoli perdono la loro libertà." -Confucius
"The essence of knowledge is, having it, to apply it; not having it, to confess your ignorance." -Confucius
"The superior man bends his attention to what is radical. That being established, all practical courses naturally grow up." -Confucius
"If I raise one corner for someone and he cannot come back with the other three, I do not go on." -Confucius
"Do not worry people not knowing you but strive so that you may worth knowing" -Confucius
"Благородный человек винит себя, а ничтожный — других." -Confucius
"Examine si ce que tu promets est juste et possible, car la promesse est une dette." -Confucius
"It doesn't matter how slowly you go so long as you do not stop" -Confucius
"مرد بزرگ به خودسختمیگیردومردکوچکبهدیگران.ا" -Confucius
"We all have two lives, your second one begins when you realize you've only got one." -Confucius
"Don't complain about the snow on your neighbour's roof when your own doorstep is unclean." -Confucius
"Et maleri er et dikt uten ord" -Confucius
"It doesn't matter how slowly you go as long as you don't stop." -Confucius
"The course (of duty), virtue, benevolence, and righteousness cannot be fully carried out without the rules of propriety; nor are training and oral lessons for the rectification of manners complete; nor can the clearing up of quarrels and discriminating in disputes be accomplished; nor can (the duties between) ruler and minister, high and low, father and son, elder brother and younger, be determined; nor can students for office and (other) learners, in serving their masters, have an attachment for them; nor can majesty and dignity be shown in assigning the different places at court, in the government of the armies, and in discharging the duties of office so as to secure the operation of the laws; nor can there be the (proper) sincerity and gravity in presenting the offerings to spiritual Beings on occasions of supplication, thanksgiving, and the various sacrifices. Therefore the superior man is respectful and reverent, assiduous in his duties and not going beyond them, retiring and yielding - thus illustrating (the principle of) propriety." -Confucius
"Menns lærdom kommer av bøker, kvinners av naturen" -Confucius
"He who chases two rabbits catches neither." -Confucius
"How dare I claim to be a sage or a benevolent man?" -Confucius
"Bir yerde küçük insanların büyük gölgeleri varsa, o yerde güneş batıyor demektir." -Confucius
"The authoritative person is a model that others, recognizing the achievement, gladly and without coercion, defer to and appropriate in the construction of their own personhood. Confucius is as explicit in expressing the same reservations about authoritative relations becoming authoritarian as he is about a deference-driven ritualized community surrendering this noncoercive structure for the rule of law" -Confucius
"you cannot open a book without learning something" -Confucius
"君子求诸己，小人求诸人。(A gentleman blames himself while a common man blames others.)" -Confucius
"Man who get kicked in testicles left holding bag" -Confucius
"Обмисли вярно и възможно ли е това, което обещаваш, защото обещанието е дълг." -Confucius
"Do not be desirous of having things done quickly. Do not look at small advantages. Desire to have things done quickly prevents their being done thoroughly. Looking at small advantages prevents great affairs from being acccomplished." -Confucius
"Esenţialul este să numeşti corect lucrurile. Dacă denumirile nu sînt corecte, cuvintele nu se mai potrivesc. Dacă cuvintele nu se mai potrivesc, treburile statului merg prost. Dacă treburile statului merg prost, nici riturile şi muzica nu mai pot înflori. Dacă riturile şi muzica nu mai pot înflori, judecăţile şi pedepsele încetează să mai fie drepte. Dacă judecăţile şi pedepsele încetează să mai fie drepte, poporul nu mai ştie cum trebuie să se poarte." -Confucius
"Това, което не е ясно, трябва да се изясни. Това, което е трудно да се прави, трябва да се прави с най-голяма настойчивост." -Confucius
"What you do not want done to yourself, do not do to others." -Confucius
"أن تشعل شمعة خير من أن تلعن الظلام" -Confucius
"Mencio: ¿Hay alguna diferencia entre matar a alguien con una espada o en hacerlo con un palo?El rey: No hay diferencia.Mencio: ¿Hay alguna diferencia entre matar a alguien con una espada o con un mal gobierno?El Rey:No hay diferencia." -Confucius
"When you see a person of worth, concentrate upon becoming their equal." -Confucius
"an apple a day keeps the docter away" -Confucius
"Truth does not depart from human nature. If what isregarded as truth departs from human nature, it maynot be regarded as truth." -Confucius
"It does not matter how slowly you go, as long as you do not stop." -Confucius
"Đừng chỉ trích mái nhà hàng xóm nhiều tuyết trong khi cửa nhà mình không sạch." -Confucius
"He said : Not to know the decree is to be without the means of being a proper man. 2. Not to know the rites is to be without means to construct. 3. Not to know words is to be without the fluid needful to understand men." -Confucius
"Men's natures are alike, it is their habits that carry them far apart." -Confucius
"Life is really simple, but men insist on making it complicated." -Confucius
"When anger rises, think of the consequences." -Confucius
"Si hanno due vite. La seconda comincia il giorno in cui ci si rende conto che non se ne ha che una." -Confucius
"A girl.... AND a gamer? Whoa mama! Hummina hummina hummina bazooooooooing! *eyes pop out* AROOOOOOOOGA! *jaw drops tongue rolls out* WOOF WOOF WOOF WOOF WOOF WOOF WOOF WOOF WOOF WOOF WOOF WOOF WOOF WOOF WOOF *tongue bursts out of the mouth uncontrollably leaking face and everything in reach* WURBLWUBRLBWURblrwurblwurlbrwubrlwburlwbruwrlblwublr *tiny cupid shoots an arrow through heart* Ahhhhhhhhhhh me lady... *heart in the shape of a heart starts beating so hard you can see it through shirt* ba-bum ba-bum ba-bum ba-bum ba-bum *milk truck crashes into a bakery store in the background spiling white liquid and dough on the streets* BABY WANTS TO FUCK *inhales from the gas tank* honka honka honka honka *masturabtes furiously* ohhhh my gooooodd~" -Confucius
"It doesn't matter how slowly you go so long as you don't stop." -Confucius
"To rule a country of a thousand chariots, there must be reverent attention to business, and sincerity; economy in expenditure, and love for men; and the employment of the people at the proper seasons." -Confucius
"If you yourself are correct, even without the issuing of orders, things will get done; if you yourself are incorrect, although orders are issued, they will not be obeyed" -Confucius
"los más competentes para que mantengan la paz y la concordia. Entonces los hombres no amarán sólo a los suyos, no procurarán sólo por sus propios hijos, sino que todos los ancianos tendrán sus últimos días tranquilos, todos los fuertes tendrán su trabajo útil, todos los niños serán estimulados en su crecimiento; los viudos y las viudas, los huérfanos y los solitarios, los débiles y los enfermos encontrarán amparo; los hombres tendrán su empleo, y las mujeres, su hogar. No se querrá que las mercancías se echen a perder; pero tampoco querrá nadie almacenarlas para sí mismo particularmente. No se querrá tampoco que el trabajo quede" -Confucius
"To see the right and not to do it is cowardice." -Confucius
"The naked man fear no pickpocket" -Confucius
"We have two lives; the second begins when we realize we only have one." -Confucius
"When the Way prevails under Heaven, then show yourself; when it does not prevail, then hide. When the Way prevails in your own land, count it a disgrace to be needy and obscure; when the Way does not prevail in your land, then count it a disgrace to be rich and honoured.'  ― Confucius, tr. Waley" -Confucius
"Shredded Beef in Szechuan Sauce is the absolute shit." -Confucius
"There are 1,000 lessons in defeat but only one in victory." -Confucius
"He who studies but does not think is lost. He who thinks but does not study is dangerous." -Confucius
"When anger arises, think of the consequences" -Confucius
"The Master replied, 'The person who would wrestle a tiger bare-handed or march across the Yellow River,106 and who would go to his death without regret—this person I would not take along. It would have to be someone who would approach any situation with trepidation, and who would be fond of planning with an eye to success." -Confucius
"The dominant philosophical preoccupations of cultures are often a function of tacit assumptions made early in their narratives that are often reflected in their languages. Greek metaphysical presuppositions melded with Judeo-Christian beliefs to produce a 'God-model,' where an independent and superordinate principle determines order and value in the world while remaining aloof from it, making human freedom, autonomy, creativity, and individuality at once problematic and of key philosophical interest. On the Chinese side, the commitment to the processional, transformative, and always provisional nature of experience renders the 'ten thousand things [or, perhaps better, ‘events'] (wanwu )' which make up the world, including the human world, at once continuous one with another, and at the same time, unique. Thus the primary philosophical problem that emerges from these assumptions is ars contextualis: how do we correlate these unique particulars to achieve their most productive continuities? (This is the underlying general form of 'questions' posed to the Book of Changes when casting the stalks.)" -Confucius
"A seed grows with no sound, but a tree falls with a huge noise. Destruction has noise, but creation is quiet. This is the power of silence. Grow silently." -Confucius
"The Master said, 'Quietly to store up knowledge in my mind, to learn without flagging, to teach without growing weary, these present me with no difficulties' ... 'It is these things that cause me concern: failure to cultivate virtue, failure to go more deeply into what I have learned, inability, when I am told what is right, to move to where it is, and inability to reform myself when I have defects." -Confucius
"Metaphysically astigmatic, perhaps, the early Chinese thinkers never seem to have perceived any substances that remained the same through time; rather in our interpretation they saw 'things' relationally, and related differently, at different periods of time. Dao, the totality of all things (wanwu ), is a process that requires the language of both 'change (bian )' and 'persistence (tong )' to capture its dynamic disposition. This processional nature of experience is captured in the Analects 9.17: The Master was standing on the riverbank, and observed, 'Isn't life's passing just like this, never ceasing day or night!" -Confucius
"The will to win, the desire to succeed, the urge to reach your full potential... these are the keys that will unlock the door to personal excellence." -Confucius
"The task of self-cultivation might be compared to the task of building up a mountain: if I stop even one basketful of earth short of completion, then I have stopped completely. It might also be compared to the task of leveling ground: even if I have only dumped a single basketful of earth, at least I am moving forward." -Confucius
"Practicing archery is like practicing to be a Gentleman. When you miss the bulls-eye, you look for the error in yourself." -Confucius
"The Master said, 'Learning without thought is labor lost; thought without learning is perilous.' The Master said, 'The study of strange doctrines is injurious indeed!'               The Master said, 'Yu, shall I teach you what knowledge is? When you know a thing, to hold that you know it; and when you do not know a thing, to allow that you do not know it;-this is knowledge." -Confucius
"Rotten wood cannot be carved;" -Confucius
"子曰：「予欲無言！」子貢曰：「子如不言，則小子何述焉？」子曰：「天何言哉！四時行焉，百物生焉；天何言哉？」" -Confucius
"Elige un trabajo que te guste y no tendrás que trabajar ni un día de tu vida." -Confucius
"He who knows all the answers has not been asked all the questions" -Confucius
"You do not understand even life. How can you understand death?" -Confucius
"The Master said, 'To go into battle with people who have not been properly trained is to forsake them." -Confucius
"It is only when the cold season comes that we know the pine and cypress to be evergreens." -Confucius
"When it comes to hearing civil litigation, I am as good as anyone else. What is necessary, though, is to bring it about that there is no civil litigation at all." -Confucius
"The Master said, 'When you meet persons of exceptional character think to stand shoulder to shoulder with them; meeting persons of little character, look inward and examine yourself." -Confucius
"It is true that we shall not be able to reach perfection, but in our struggle toward it we shall strengthen our characters and give stability to our ideas, so that, whilst ever advancing calmly in the same direction, we shall be rendered capable of applying the faculties with which we have been gifted to the best possible account." -Confucius
"The junzi's stance towards the world is this: there is nothing he insists on, nothing he refuses, he simply aligns himself beside right." -Confucius
"Very few go astray who comport themselves with restraint." -Confucius
"Non esiste una strada verso la felicità. La felicità è la strada." -Confucius
"After people are clothed and fed, then they think about sex" -Confucius
"Our greatest strength lies not in never falling, but in rising every time we fall." -Confucius
"Speaking (dao )' is a 'guiding discourse (dao ).' Said a different way, language is both performative and prescriptive; it both does something to the world and recommends how it should be." -Confucius
"كيف يمكن أن نؤدي واجبنا نحو أرواح الموتى قبل أن نتمكن من أدائه نحو الأحياء" -Confucius
"Wherever you go, go with all your heart" -Confucius
"A Journey of a thousand miles becomes with a single step." -Confucius
"Men who are 'poor but joyful' or 'rich but loving the rites' are larger in mind and spirit than those who are merely holding on to their integrity by not being ingratiating when poor or arrogant when rich." -Confucius
"Do I possess wisdom? No, I do not. For example, recently a common fellow asked a question of me, and I came up completely empty. But I discussed the problem with him from beginning to end until we finally got to the bottom of it." -Confucius
"lesson about knowledge? When you know a thing, maintain that you know it; and when you do not, acknowledge your ignorance. This is characteristic of knowledge." -Confucius
"are you from tennessee? because you're the only 10 I see" -Confucius
"Forget injuries. Never forget kindness." -Confucius
"Staying with good people is like entering a room with orchids. You won't notice the fragrance, but you'll be soaked in the scent. Staying with evil people is just like going inside a stinky fish store. You won't smell it after a while because you will blend with the stench. Keep red things and you'll turn red. Keep lacquer, and you'll turn black ...So a wise man should be careful of where he stays..." -Confucius
"15.30 The Master said, 'Having gone astray, to fail to get right back on track is to stray indeed." -Confucius
"The Master said, 'In strolling in the company of just two other persons, I am bound to find a teacher. Identifying their strengths, I follow them, and identifying their weaknesses, I reform myself accordingly." -Confucius
"Ignoranța generează mai des încredere în sine decât cunoștințele." -Confucius
"When the Way prevails in the world, then be seen. When it does not, then hide." -Confucius
"¿Son las virtudes algo lejano? En cuanto quiero ser virtuoso, inmediatamente estoy alcanzando la virtud" -Confucius
"15.15 The Master said, 'To demand much from oneself personally, and not overmuch from others, will keep ill will at a distance." -Confucius
"Kebodohan bukanlah tidak tahu apa-apa, tetapi tidak mau belajar apa-apa." -Confucius
"To know what you know and what you do not know, that is true knowledge." -Confucius
"Confucius say ...""He who sleep with itchy butt wake with smelly finger." -Confucius
"The Master said, A transmitter and not a maker, trusting in and loving antiquity, I venture to compare myself with our Old Peng." -Confucius
"Bir ülkede iyi bir hükümet olduğunda, sözler de davranışlar da yüce ve gözü pektir. Kötü hükümet olduğunda, davranışlar yüce ve gözü pek olabilir ama sözlere kimi çekinceler konabilir." -Confucius
"Lakukanlah sesuatu yang kamu sukai dan kamu tidak perlu bekerja sehari pun dalam hidupmu." -Confucius
"To give comfort to the old, to have the trust of my friends, and to have the young seeking to be near me" -Confucius
"The Master said, 'Do not worry that other people do not know you. But be concerned that you do not know them." -Confucius
"Do not worry that your abilities are not appreciated, you should reflect on yourself whether you really have capabilities." -Confucius
"«Cuando venza la gran verdad, entonces la tierra será propiedad de todos. Se escogerá a los más sabios y a" -Confucius
"The Master said, 'I do not open the way for students who are not driven with eagerness; I do not supply a vocabulary for students who are not trying desperately to find the language for their ideas. If on showing students one corner they do not come back to me with the other three, I will not repeat myself." -Confucius
"To elaborate these points in a Western philosophical context, first, the 'basic stuff' of the scientific West came to be seen as substances (noun phrases), in which attributes inhere (auxiliary verbs) or which are active (transitive and intransitive verbs). Thus Heraclitus could ask how it was possible to step into the same river twice when all of its substance (water) was different. In attempting to get to the bottom of things, Descartes argued for two substances which share no predicates because they are absolutely distinct: body (that which is extended) and mind (that which thinks). But Cartesian efforts to account for how the two substances could interact were not persuasive to Descartes' successors. Like Spinoza, Leibniz believed that substances could not, in fact, interact, but while the former concluded there could therefore only be a single substance (with many modes and attributes), the latter instead argued for an indefinitely large number of them. These individual substances, 'monads,' could not causally affect each other, but could all dance to the same tune played in a preestablished harmony composed by God." -Confucius
"როდესაც სიტყვები თავის მნიშვნელობას კარგავს, ხალხი თავის თავისუფლებას დაკარგავს" -Confucius
"Man who fart in church, sit in pew." -Confucius
"I hear, I know. I see, I remember. I do, I understand." -Confucius
"To be wronged is nothing unless you continue to remember it" -Confucius
"The Master said, Study as though you could never catch up, [and if you did,] you would still be fearful of losing it." -Confucius
"No procuro saber las respuestas, procuro comprender las preguntas." -Confucius
"Learning without thinking is wasted effort; thinking without learning is dangerous" -Confucius
"He is conventionally translated 'harmony,' and we follow that rendering. The etymology of the term is culinary: harmony is the art of combining and blending two or more foodstuffs so that they come together with mutual benefit and enhancement without losing their separate and particular identities.49 Throughout the early corpus, the preparation of food is appealed to as a gloss on this sense of elegant harmony. Harmony so considered entails both the integrity of the particular ingredient and its ease of integration into some larger whole. Signatory of this harmony is the endurance of the particular ingredients and the cosmetic nature of the harmony in an order that emerges out of the collaboration of intrinsically related details to embellish the contribution of each one." -Confucius
"Persons are not perceived as superordinated individuals—as agents who stand independent of their actions—but are rather ongoing 'events' defined functionally by constitutive roles and relationships as they are performed within the context of their specific families and communities, that is, through the observance of ritual propriety (li" -Confucius
"I was not born with wisdom. I love the ancient teachings and have worked hard to attain to their level." -Confucius
"16.5 Confucius said, 'Finding enjoyment in three kinds of activities will be a source of personal improvement; finding enjoyment in three other kinds of activities will be a source of personal injury. One stands to be improved by the enjoyment found in attuning oneself to the rhythms of ritual propriety (li ) and music (yue ),283 by the enjoyment found in talking about what others do well (shan ), and by the enjoyment found in having a circle of many friends of superior character (xian ); one stands to be injured by finding enjoyment in being arrogant, by finding enjoyment in dissolute diversions, and by finding enjoyment in the easy life." -Confucius
"7.25 The Master taught under four categories: culture (wen ), proper conduct (xing ), doing one's utmost (zhong ), and making good on one's word (xin )." -Confucius
"What is governing to a man that can rule himself? If he cannot rule himself, how shall he rule others?" -Confucius
"Our own thesis was sketched in the Introduction: the classical written Chinese language—the language in which the Analects was composed—is unique, being sharply distinct not only from all non-Sinitic languages but from spoken Chinese as well (ancient and modern), and that the differences between the two Chinese languages are of greater linguistic and philosophical significance than has been generally noticed." -Confucius
"If the search for riches were sure to be successful, though I should become a groom with a whip in my hand to get them, I will do so. As the search may not be successful, I will follow after that which I love." -Confucius
"You have two lives. The second one begins when you realize you only have one." -Confucius
"por hacer, como asimismo nadie querrá realizarlo en ganancia propia. Por eso no harán falta cerraduras, porque no habrá bandidos ni ladrones. Se dejarán abiertas las puertas exteriores. A esto se llama la gran comunidad.» (45). CONFUCIO, FILOSOFO Lo primero que sorprende a medida que avanzamos en el conocimiento de la obra de Confucio, es que el confucismo haya sido considerado siempre y siga siendo, considerado como una religión, cuando, en realidad, no pasa de ser un sistema moral." -Confucius
"The goodie-goodies are the thieves of virtue." -Confucius
"You are not yet able to serve people—how could you be able to serve ghosts and spirits?" -Confucius
"before you embark on a journey of revenge, dig 2 graves" -Confucius
"Benevolence is love to  men. It is to know  men." -Confucius
"Je ne cherche pas à connaître les réponses, je cherche à comprendre les questions" -Confucius
"Shredded Beef in Szechuan Sauce is the absolute shit!" -Confucius
"Choose a job you love, and you will never have to work a day in your life" -Confucius
"Donde hay educación no hay distinción de clases" -Confucius
"Student - ""It is not that I do not delight in your Way, Master, it is simply that my strength is insufficient.""Confucius - ""Someone whose strength is genuinely insufficient collapses somewhere along the Way. As for you, you deliberately draw the line." -Confucius
"Confucius stays within the secular sphere of individual, society, government, and history, rarely and tentatively venturing into matter known in other cultures as religious." -Confucius
"An educated woman is a stupid woman" -Confucius
"Better a diamond with a flaw than a pebble without" -Confucius
"Confucius replied, 'Those who are true in my village conduct themselves differently. A father covers for his son, and a son covers for his father. And being true lies in this." -Confucius
"A wise man is never cheated, a virtuous man is never worried and a courageous man is never afraid." -Confucius
"A healthy man wants a thousand things, a sick man only wants one." -Confucius
"Lakukanlah sesuatu yang kamu cintai dan kamu tidak akan pernah bekerja seharipun dalam hidupmu." -Confucius
"The Master said, 'If a man of position [junzi] does not have integrity, he will not inspire awe." -Confucius
"you govern effectively,' Confucius replied, 'what need is there for killing? If you want to be truly adept (shan ), the people will also be adept. The excellence (de ) of the exemplary person (junzi ) is the wind, while that of the petty person is the grass. As the wind blows, the grass is sure to bend." -Confucius
"Life is simple, but we insist on making it complicated." -Confucius
"People have a saying, ‘I take no joy in being a ruler, except that no one dares to oppose what I say.' If what the ruler says is good, and no one opposes him, is this not good? On the other hand, if what he says is not good, and no one opposes him, does this not come close to being a single saying that can cause a state to perish?" -Confucius
"I have never denied instruction to anyone who, of their own accord, offered up as little as a bundle of silk or bit of cured meat." -Confucius
"The Master said, 'How could one but comply with what model sayings have to say? But the real value lies in reforming one's ways. How could one but find pleasure in polite language? But the real value lies in drawing out its meaning. What can possibly be done with people who find pleasure in polite language but do not draw out its meaning, or who comply with model sayings but do not reform their ways." -Confucius
"The Jitong chapter of the Book of Rites says, 'There are three ways of caring for one's parents: when they are alive, look after them; when they are deceased, tend to the death rites; when the death rites have been completed, offer them sacrifice." -Confucius
"To know oneself is the beginning of wisdom." -Confucius
"He answered, How dare I look as high as Hui? When Hui hears one thing, he understands ten; when I hear one thing I understand two." -Confucius
"Bad temper always turns reason out of doors." -Confucius