"A reliable way to make people believe in falsehoods is frequent repetition, because familiarity is not easily distinguished from truth. Authoritarian institutions and marketers have always known this fact." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Nothing in life is as important as you think it is, while you are thinking about it" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Our comforting conviction that the world makes sense rests on a secure foundation: our almost unlimited ability to ignore our ignorance." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Intelligence is not only the ability to reason; it is also the ability to find relevant material in memory and to deploy attention when needed." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The psychologist, Paul Rozin, an expert on disgust, observed that a single cockroach will completely wreck the appeal of a bowl of cherries, but a cherry will do nothing at all for a bowl of cockroaches." -Daniel Kahneman 
"If you care about being thought credible and intelligent, do not use complex language where simpler language will do." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Money does not buy you happiness, but lack of money certainly buys you misery." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The idea that the future is unpredictable is undermined every day by the ease with which the past is explained." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Odd as it may seem, I am my remembering self, and the experiencing self, who does my living, is like a stranger to me." -Daniel Kahneman 
"This is the essence of intuitive heuristics: when faced with a difficult question, we often answer an easier one instead, usually without noticing the substitution." -Daniel Kahneman 
"A general "law of least effort' applies to cognitive as well as physicalexertion. The law asserts that if there are several ways of achieving thesame goal, people will eventually gravitate to the least demanding courseof action. In the economy of action, effort is a cost, and the acquisition ofskill is driven by the balance of benefits and costs. Laziness is built deep into our nature." -Daniel Kahneman 
"I have always believed that scientific research is another domain where a form of optimism is essential to success: I have yet to meet a successful scientist who lacks the ability to exaggerate the importance of what he or she is doing, and I believe that someone who lacks a delusional sense of significance will wilt in the face of repeated experiences of multiple small failures and rare successes, the fate of most researchers." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The confidence that individuals have in their beliefs depends mostly on the quality of the story they can tell about what they see, even if they see little." -Daniel Kahneman 
"A reliable way of making people believe in falsehoods is frequent repetition, because familiarity is not easily distinguished from truth." -Daniel Kahneman 
"We are prone to overestimate how much we understand about the world and to underestimate the role of chance in events." -Daniel Kahneman 
"we can be blind to the obvious, and we are also blind to our blindness." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The world makes much less sense than you think. The coherence comes mostly from the way your mind works." -Daniel Kahneman 
"You are more likely to learn something by finding surprises in your own behavior than by hearing surprising facts about people in general." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Mood evidently affects the operation of System 1: when we are uncomfortable and unhappy, we lose touch with our intuition.These findings add to the growing evidence that good mood, intuition, creativity, gullibility, and increased reliance on System 1 form a cluster. At the other pole, sadness, vigilance, suspicion, an analytic approach, and increased effort also go together. A happy mood loosens the control of System 2 over performance: when in a good mood, people become more intuitive and more creative but also less vigilant and more prone to logical errors." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Familiarity breeds liking." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The illusion that we understand the past fosters overconfidence in our ability to predict the future." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The easiest way to increase happiness is to control your use of time. Can you find more time to do the things you enjoy doing?" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Confidence is a feeling, which reflects the coherence of the information and the cognitive ease of processing it. It is wise to take admissions of uncertainty seriously, but declarations of high confidence mainly tell you that an individual has constructed a coherent story in his mind, not necessarily that the story is true." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The test of learning psychology is whether your understanding of situations you encounter has changed, not whether you have learned a new fact." -Daniel Kahneman 
"A person who has not made peace with his losses is likely to accept gambles that would be unacceptable to him otherwise." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Nothing in life is as important as you think it is when you are thinking about it." -Daniel Kahneman 
"acquisition of skills requires a regular environment, an adequate opportunity to practice, and rapid and unequivocal feedback about the correctness of thoughts and actions." -Daniel Kahneman 
"People tend to assess the relative importance of issues by the ease with which they are retrieved from memory--and this is largely determined by the extent of coverage in the media. Frequently mentioned topics populate the mind even as others slip away from awareness. In turn, what the media choose to report corresponds to their view of what is currently on the public's mind. It is no accident that authoritarian regimes exert substantial pressure on independent media. Because public interest is most easily aroused by dramatic events and by celebrities, media feeding frenzies are common" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Because we tend to be nice to other people when they please us and nasty when they do not, we are statistically punished for being nice and rewarded for being nasty." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The premise of this book is that it is easier to recognize other people's mistakes than our own." -Daniel Kahneman 
"We are prone to blame decision makers for good decisions that worked out badly and to give them too little credit for successful moves that appear obvious only after the fact." -Daniel Kahneman 
"We focus on our goal, anchor on our plan, and neglect relevant base rates, exposing ourselves to the planning fallacy. We focus on what we want to do and can do, neglecting the plans and skills of others. Both in explaining the past and in predicting the future, we focus on the causal role of skill and neglect the role of luck. We are therefore prone to an illusion of control. We focus on what we know and neglect what we do not know, which makes us overly confident in our beliefs." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Experts who acknowledge the full extent of their ignorance may expect to be replaced by more confident competitors, who are better able to gain the trust of clients. An unbiased appreciation of uncertainty is a cornerstone of rationality--but it is not what people and organizations want." -Daniel Kahneman 
"when people believe a conclusion is true, they are also very likely to believe arguments that appear to support it, even when these arguments are unsound." -Daniel Kahneman 
"A simple rule can help: before an issue is discussed, all members of the committee should be asked to write a very brief summary of their position. This procedure makes good use of the value of the diversity of knowledge and opinion in the group. The standard practice of open discussion gives too much weight to the opinions of those who speak early and assertively, causing others to line up behind them." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Jonathan Haidt said in another context, "The emotional tail wags the rational dog." -Daniel Kahneman 
"higher income is associated with a reduced ability to enjoy the small pleasures of life." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Nothing in life is as important as you think it is when you are thinking of it." -Daniel Kahneman 
"To derive the most useful information from multiple sources of evidence, you should always try to make these sources independent of each other." -Daniel Kahneman 
"We have all heard such stories of expert intuition: the chess master who walks past a street game and announces "White mates in three' without stopping, or the physician who makes a complex diagnosis after a single glance at a patient. Expert intuition strikes us as magical, but it is not. Indeed, each of us performs feats of intuitive expertise many times each day. Most of us are pitch-perfect in detecting anger in the first word of a telephone call, recognize as we enter a room that we were the subject of the conversation, and quickly react to subtle signs that the driver of the car in the next lane is dangerous. Our everyday intuitive abilities are no less marvelous than the striking insights of an experienced firefighter or physician--only more common. The psychology of accurate intuition involves no magic. Perhaps the best short statement of it is by the great Herbert Simon, who studied chess masters and showed that after thousands of hours of practice they come to see the pieces on the board differently from the rest of us. You can feel Simon's impatience with the mythologizing of expert intuition when he writes: "The situation has provided a cue; this cue has given the expert access to information stored in memory, and the information provides the answer. Intuition is nothing more and nothing less than recognition." -Daniel Kahneman 
"a stable relationship requires that good interactions outnumber bad interactions by at least 5 to 1." -Daniel Kahneman 
"You can do several things at once, but only if they are easy and undemanding." -Daniel Kahneman 
"I call it theory-induced blindness: once you have accepted a theory and used it as a tool in your thinking, it is extraordinarily difficult to notice its flaws. If you come upon an observation that does not seem to fit the model, you assume that there must be a perfectly good explanation that you are somehow missing." -Daniel Kahneman 
"However, optimism is highly valued, socially and in the market; people and firms reward the providers of dangerously misleading information more than they reward truth tellers. One of the lessons of the financial crisis that led to the Great Recession is that there are periods in which competition, among experts and among organizations, creates powerful forces that favor a collective blindness to risk and uncertainty." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The worse the consequence, the greater the hindsight bias." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Indeed, there is evidence that people are more likely to be influenced by empty persuasive messages, such as commercials, when they are tired and depleted." -Daniel Kahneman 
"if you have had to force yourself to do something, you are less willing or less able to exert self-control when the next challenge comes around. The phenomenon has been named ego depletion." -Daniel Kahneman 
"To be useful, your beliefs should be constrained by the logic of probability." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The most effortful forms of slow thinking are those that require you to think fast." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Jumping to conclusions is efficient if the conclusions are likely to be correct and the costs of an occasional mistake acceptable. Jumping to conclusions is risky when the situation is unfamiliar, the stakes are high and there is no time to collect more information." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Remember this rule: intuition cannot be trusted in the absence of stable regularities in the environment." -Daniel Kahneman 
"it is much easier to strive for perfection when you are never bored." -Daniel Kahneman 
"A reliable way to make people believe in falsehoods is frequent repetition, because familiarity is not easily distinguished from truth." -Daniel Kahneman 
"We are far too willing to reject the belief that much of what we see in life is random." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The experiencing self does not have a voice. The remembering self is sometimes wrong, but it is the one that keeps score and governs what we learn from living, and it is the one that makes decisions. What we learn from the past is to maximize the qualities of our future memories, not necessarily of our future experience. This is the tyranny of the remembering self." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The world in our heads is not a precise replica of reality; our expectations about the frequency of events are distorted by the prevalence and emotional intensity of the messages to which we are exposed." -Daniel Kahneman 
"If a satisfactory answer to a hard question is not found quickly, System 1 will find a related question that is easier and will answer it. I call the operation of answering one question in place of another substitution." -Daniel Kahneman 
"People who are poor think like traders, but the dynamics are quite different. Unlike traders, the poor are not indifferent to the differences between gaining and giving up. Their problem is that all their choices are between losses. Money that is spent on one good is the loss of another good that could have been purchased instead. For the poor, costs are losses." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Those who avoid the sin of intellectual sloth could be called "engaged.' They are more alert, more intellectually active, less willing to be satisfied with superficially attractive answers, more skeptical about their intuitions." -Daniel Kahneman 
"If you care about being thought credible and intelligent, do not use complex language where simpler language will do. My Princeton colleague Danny Oppenheimer refuted a myth prevalent among undergraduates about the vocabulary that professors find most impressive. In an article titled Consequences of Erudite Vernacular Utilized Irrespective of Necessity: Problems with Using Long Words Needlessly, he showed that couching familiar ideas in pretentious language is taken as a sign of poor intelligence and low credibility." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The evidence of priming studies suggests that reminding people of their mortality increases the appeal of authoritarian ideas, which may become reassuring in the context of the terror of death." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Mood evidently affects the operation of System 1: when we are uncomfortable and unhappy, we lose touch with our intuition." -Daniel Kahneman 
"We are pattern seekers, believers in a coherent world, in which regularities appear not by accident but as a result of mechanical causality or of someone´s intention. We do not expect to see regularity produced by a random process, and when we detect what appears to be a rule, we quickly reject the idea that the process is truly random. Random processes produce many sequences that convince people that the process is not random after all." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Finally, the illusions of validity and skill are supported by a powerful professional culture. We know that people can maintain an unshakable faith in any proposition, however absurd, when they are sustained by a community of like-minded believers. Given the professional culture of the financial community, it is not surprising that large numbers of individuals in that world believe themselves to be among the chosen few who can do what they believe others cannot." -Daniel Kahneman 
"As cognitive scientists have emphasized in recent years, cognition is embodied; you think with your body, not only with your brain." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The illusion that one has understood the past feeds the further illusion that one can predict and control the future. These illusions are comforting. They reduce the anxiety that we would experience if we allowed ourselves to fully acknowledge the uncertainties of existence. We all have a need for the reassuring message that actions have appropriate consequences, and that success will reward wisdom and courage. Many business books are tailor-made to satisfy this need." -Daniel Kahneman 
"In a state of flow, however, maintaining focused attention on these absorbing activities requires no exertion of self-control, thereby freeing resources to be directed to the task at hand." -Daniel Kahneman 
"In essence, the optimistic style involves taking credit for successes but little blame for failures." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Highly intelligent women tend to marry men who are less intelligent than they are." -Daniel Kahneman 
"You have no compelling moral intuitions to guide you in solving that problem. Your moral feelings are attached to frames, to descriptions of reality rather than to reality itself." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The gorilla study illustrates two important facts about our minds: we can be blind to the obvious, and we are also blind to our blindness." -Daniel Kahneman 
"A divorce is like a symphony with a screeching sound at the end--the fact that it ended badly does not mean it was all bad." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Narrative fallacies arise inevitably from our continuous attempt to make sense of the world. The explanatory stories that people find compelling are simple; are concrete rather than abstract; assign a larger role to talent, stupidity, and intentions than to luck; and focus on a few striking events that happened rather than on the countless events that failed to happen. Any recent salient event is a candidate to become the kernel of a causal narrative. Taleb suggests that we humans constantly fool ourselves by constructing flimsy accounts of the past and believing they are true." -Daniel Kahneman 
"It is the consistency of the information that matters for a good story, not its completeness. Indeed, you will often find that knowing little makes it easier to fit everything you know into a coherent pattern." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Confusing experience with the memory of it is a compelling cognitive illusion--and it is the substitution that makes us believe a past experience can be ruined. The experiencing self does not have a voice. The remembering self is sometimes wrong, but it is the one that keeps score and governs what we learn from living, and it is the one that makes decisions. What we learn from the past is to maximize the qualities of our future memories, not necessarily of our future experience. This is the tyranny of the remembering self." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Do we still remember the question we are trying to answer? Or have we substituted an easier one?" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The nervous system consumes more glucose than most other parts of the body, and effortful mental activity appears to be especially expensive in the currency of glucose." -Daniel Kahneman 
"A happy mood loosens the control of System 2 over performance: when in a good mood, people become more intuitive and more creative but also less vigilant and more prone to logical errors. Here again, as in the mere exposure effect, the connection makes biological sense. A good mood is a signal that things are generally going well, the environment is safe, and it is all right to let one's guard down. A bad mood indicates that things are not going very well, there may be a threat, and vigilance is required." -Daniel Kahneman 
"An inability to be guided by a "healthy fear' of bad consequences is a disastrous flaw." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Jumping to conclusions is a safer sport in the world of our imagination than it is in reality." -Daniel Kahneman 
"It is useful to remember, however, that neglecting valid stereotypes inevitably results in suboptimal judgments. Resistance to stereotyping is a laudable moral position, but the simplistic idea that the resistance is costless is wrong. The costs are worth paying to achieve a better society, but denying that the costs exist, while satisfying to the soul and politically correct, is not scientifically defensible." -Daniel Kahneman 
"For example, students of policy have noted that the availability heuristic helps explain why some issues are highly salient in the public's mind while others are neglected. People tend to assess the relative importance of issues by the ease with which they are retrieved from memory--and this is largely determined by the extent of coverage in the media" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Bad emotions, bad parents, and bad feedback have more impact than good ones, and bad information is processed more thoroughly than good. The" -Daniel Kahneman 
"System 1 continuously generates suggestions for System 2: impressions, intuitions, intentions, and feelings. If endorsed by System 2, impressions and intuitions turn into beliefs, and impulses turn into voluntary actions. When all goes smoothly, which is most of the time, System 2 adopts the suggestions of System 1 with little or no modification." -Daniel Kahneman 
"the proper way to elicit information from a group is not by starting with a public discussion but by confidentially collecting each person's judgment. This procedure makes better use of the knowledge available to members of the group than the common practice of open discussion." -Daniel Kahneman 
"We know that people can maintain an unshakable faith in any proposition, however absurd, when they are sustained by a community of like-minded believers" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The most surprising discovery made by Baumeister's group shows, as he puts it, that the idea of mental energy is more than a mere metaphor. The nervous system consumes more glucose than most other parts of the body, and effortful mental activity appears to be especially expensive in the currency of glucose." -Daniel Kahneman 
"luck plays a large role in every story of success; it is almost always easy to identify a small change in the story that would have turned a remarkable achievement into a mediocre outcome." -Daniel Kahneman 
"declarations of high confidence mainly tell you that an individual has constructed a coherent story in his mind, not necessarily that the story is true." -Daniel Kahneman 
"In An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding, published in 1748, the Scottish philosopher David Hume reduced the principles of association to three: resemblance, contiguity in time and place, and causality. Our concept of association has changed radically since Hume's days, but his three principles still provide a good start." -Daniel Kahneman 
"There's a lot of randomness in the decisions that people make." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Dawes observed that the complex statistical algorithm adds little or no value. One can do just as well by selecting a set of scores that have some validity for predicting the outcome and adjusting the values to make them comparable (by using standard scores or ranks). A formula that combines these predictors with equal weights is likely to be just as accurate in predicting new cases as the multiple-regression formula that was optimal in the original sample. More recent research went further: formulas that assign equal weights to all the predictors are often superior, because they are not affected by accidents of sampling." -Daniel Kahneman 
"If you are genetically endowed with an optimistic bias, you hardly need to be told that you are a lucky person--you already feel fortunate. An optimistic attitude is largely inherited, and it is part of a general disposition for well-being, which may also include a preference for seeing the bright side of everything. If you were allowed one wish for your child, seriously consider wishing him or her optimism. Optimists are normally cheerful and happy, and therefore popular; they are resilient in adapting to failures and hardships, their chances of clinical depression are reduced, their immune system is stronger, they take better care of their health, they feel healthier than others and are in fact likely to live longer. A study of people who exaggerate their expected life span beyond actuarial predictions showed that they work longer hours, are more optimistic about their future income, are more likely to remarry after divorce (the classic "triumph of hope over experience'), and are more prone to bet on individual stocks. Of" -Daniel Kahneman 
"A compelling narrative fosters an illusion of inevitability." -Daniel Kahneman 
"A general limitation of the human mind is its imperfect ability to reconstruct past states of knowledge, or beliefs that have changed. Once you adopt a new view of the world (or of any part of it), you immediately lose much of your ability to recall what you used to believe before your mind changed." -Daniel Kahneman 
"When forecasting the outcomes of risky projects, executives too easily fall victim to the planning fallacy. In its grip, they make decisions based on delusional optimism rather than on a rational weighting of gains, losses, and probabilities. They overestimate benefits and underestimate costs. They spin scenarios of success while overlooking the potential for mistakes and miscalculations. As a result, they pursue initiatives that are unlikely to come in on budget or on time or to deliver the expected returns--or even to be completed. In this view, people often (but not always) take on risky projects because they are overly optimistic about the odds they face. I will return to this idea several times in this book--it probably contributes to an explanation of why people litigate, why they start wars, and why they open small businesses." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The power of random anchors has been demonstrated in some unsettling ways. German judges with an average of more than fifteen years of experience on the bench first read a description of a woman who had been caught shoplifting, then rolled a pair of dice that were loaded so every roll resulted in either a 3 or a 9. As soon as the dice came to a stop, the judges were asked whether they would sentence the woman to a term in prison greater or lesser, in months, than the number showing on the dice. Finally, the judges were instructed to specify the exact prison sentence they would give to the shoplifter. On average, those who had rolled a 9 said they would sentence her to 8 months; those who rolled a 3 said they would sentence her to 5 months; the anchoring effect was 50%." -Daniel Kahneman 
"People tend to assess the relative importance of issues by the ease with which they are retrieved from memory--and this is largely determined by the extent of coverage in the media. Frequently mentioned topics populate the mind even as others slip away from awareness." -Daniel Kahneman 
"How do people make the judgments and how do they assign decision weights? We start from two simple answers, then qualify them. Here are the oversimplified answers: People overestimate the probabilities of unlikely events. People overweight unlikely events in their decisions." -Daniel Kahneman 
"During one of these lectures, our teacher imparted a morsel of clinical wisdom. This is what he told us: "You will from time to time meet a patient who shares a disturbing tale of multiple mistakes in his previous treatment. He has been seen by several clinicians, and all failed him. The patient can lucidly describe how his therapists misunderstood him, but he has quickly perceived that you are different. You share the same feeling, are convinced that you understand him, and will be able to help.' At this point my teacher raised his voice as he said, "Do not even think of taking on this patient! Throw him out of the office! He is most likely a psychopath and you will not be able to help him.' Many years later I learned that the teacher had warned us against psychopathic charm, and the leading authority in the study of psychopathy confirmed that the teacher's advice was sound. The analogy to the Müller-Lyer illusion is close. What we were being taught was not how to feel about that patient. Our teacher took it for granted that the sympathy we would feel for the patient would not be under our control; it would arise from System 1. Furthermore, we were not being taught to be generally suspicious of our feelings about patients. We were told that a strong attraction to a patient with a repeated history of failed treatment is a danger sign--like the fins on the parallel lines. It is an illusion--a cognitive illusion--and I (System 2) was taught how to recognize it and advised not to believe it or act on it." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Intelligence is not only the ability to reason; it is also the ability to find relevant material in memory and to deploy attention when needed. Memory function is an attribute of System 1. However, everyone has the option of slowing down to conduct an active search of memory for all possibly relevant facts--just as they could slow down to check the intuitive answer in the bat-and-ball problem. The extent of deliberate checking and search is a characteristic of System 2, which varies among individuals." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Amos and I introduced the idea of a conjunction fallacy, which people commit when they judge a conjunction of two events (here, bank teller and feminist) to be more probable than one of the events (bank teller) in a direct comparison." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The idea that large historical events are determined by luck is profoundly shocking, although it is demonstrably true." -Daniel Kahneman 
"If you were allowed one wish for your child, seriously consider wishing him or her optimism." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The expectation of intelligent gossip is a powerful motive for serious self-criticism, more powerful than New Year resolutions to improve one's decision making at work and at home." -Daniel Kahneman 
"My advice to students when I taught negotiations was that if you think the other side has made an outrageous proposal, you should not come back with an equally outrageous counteroffer, creating a gap that will be difficult to bridge in further negotiations. Instead you should make a scene, storm out or threaten to do so, and make it clear--to yourself as well as to the other side--that you will not continue the negotiation with that number on the table." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Political scientists followed up on Todorov's initial research by identifying a category of voters for whom the automatic preferences of System 1 are particularly likely to play a large role. They found what they were looking for among politically uninformed voters who watch a great deal of television. As expected, the effect of facial competence on voting is about three times larger for information-poor and TV-prone voters than for others who are better informed and watch less television. Evidently," -Daniel Kahneman 
"...the characters are useful because of some quirks of our minds, yours and mine. A sentence is understood more easily if it describes what an agent (system 2) does than if it describes what something is, what properties it has." -Daniel Kahneman 
"You like or dislike people long before you know much about them; you trust or distrust strangers without knowing why; you feel that an enterprise is bound to succeed without analyzing it. Whether you state them or not, you often have answers to questions that you do not completely understand, relying on evidence that you can neither explain nor defend." -Daniel Kahneman 
"More advice: if your message is to be printed, use high-quality paper to maximize the contrast between characters and their background. If you use color, you are more likely to be believed if your text is printed in bright blue or red than in middling shades of green, yellow, or pale blue." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The mistake that people make in the focusing illusion involves attention to selected moments and neglect of what happens at other times. The mind is good with stories, but it does not appear to be well designed for the processing of time. During the last ten years we have learned many new facts about happiness. But we have also learned that the word happiness does not have a simple meaning and should not be used as if it does. Sometimes scientific progress leaves us more puzzled than we were before." -Daniel Kahneman 
"We all have a need for the reassuring message that actions have appropriate consequences, and that success will reward wisdom and courage. Many business books are tailor-made to satisfy this need." -Daniel Kahneman 
"System 1 is radically insensitive to both the quality and the quantity of the information that gives rise to impressions and intuitions." -Daniel Kahneman 
"People who are cognitively busy are also more likely to make selfish choices, use sexist language, and make superficial judgments in social situations." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The ultimate test of an explanation is whether it would have made the event predictable in advance. No story of Google's unlikely success will meet that test, because no story can include the myriad of events that would have caused a different outcome. The human mind does not deal well with nonevents." -Daniel Kahneman 
"participants were told that they would shortly have a get-acquainted conversation with another person and were asked to set up two chairs while the experimenter left to retrieve that person. Participants primed by money chose to stay much farther apart than their nonprimed peers (118 vs. 80 centimeters). Money-primed undergraduates also showed a greater preference for being alone. The general theme of these findings is that the idea of money primes individualism: a reluctance to be involved with others, to depend on others, or to accept demands from others." -Daniel Kahneman 
"In a later chapter he describes a massive failure of intuition: Americans elected President Harding, whose only qualification for the position was that he perfectly looked the part. Square jawed and tall, he was the perfect image of a strong and decisive leader. People voted for someone who looked strong and decisive without any other reason to believe that he was. An intuitive prediction of how Harding would perform as president arose from substituting one question for another. A reader of this book should expect such an intuition to be held with confidence." -Daniel Kahneman 
"First, people are generally rational, and their thinking is normally sound. Second, emotions such as fear, affection, and hatred explain most of the occasions on which people depart from rationality." -Daniel Kahneman 
"the pupil of the eye as a window to the soul." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Evaluating people as attractive or not is a basic assessment. You do that automatically whether or not you want to, and it influences you." -Daniel Kahneman 
"his pupils widening as he watched beautiful nature pictures, and it ends with two striking pictures of the same good-looking woman, who somehow appears much more attractive in one than in the other. There is only one difference: the pupils of the eyes appear dilated in the attractive picture and constricted in the other." -Daniel Kahneman 
"intuition cannot be trusted in the absence of stable regularities in the environment." -Daniel Kahneman 
"It was beyond imagining that bad font influences judgments of truth and improves cognitive performance, or that an emotional response to the cognitive ease of a triad of words mediates impressions of coherence. Psychology has come a long way." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Anything that makes it easier for the associative machine to run smoothly will also bias beliefs. A reliable way to make people believe in falsehoods is frequent repetition, because familiarity is not easily distinguished from truth. Authoritarian institutions and marketers have always known this fact. But" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Experienced radiologists who evaluate chest X-rays as "normal' or "abnormal' contradict themselves 20% of the time when they see the same picture on separate occasions." -Daniel Kahneman 
"A recurrent theme of this book is that luck plays a large role in every story of success;" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The experiment shows that individuals feel relieved of responsibility when they know that others have heard the same request for help. Did the results surprise you? Very probably. Most of us think of ourselves as decent people who would rush to help in such a situation, and we expect other decent people to do the same. The point of the experiment, of course, was to show that this expectation is wrong. Even normal, decent people do not rush to help when they expect others to take on the unpleasantness of dealing" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Intelligence is not only the ability to reason; it is also the ability to find relevant material in memory and to deploy attention when needed." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The law (of least effort) asserts that if there are several ways of achieving the same goal, people will eventually gravitate to the least demanding course of action. In the economy of action, effort is a cost, and the acquisition of skill is driven by the balance of benefits and costs. Laziness is built deep into our nature." -Daniel Kahneman 
"When the question is difficult and a skilled solution is not available, intuition still has a shot: an answer may come to mind quickly--but it is not an answer to the original question. The question that the executive faced (should I invest in Ford stock?) was difficult, but the answer to an easier and related question (do I like Ford cars?) came readily to his mind and determined his choice. This is the essence of intuitive heuristics: when faced with a difficult question, we often answer an easier one instead, usually without noticing the substitution." -Daniel Kahneman 
"You know you have made a theoretical advance when you can no longer reconstruct why you failed for so long to see the obvious." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The experience of freely willed action is quite separate from physical causality. Although it is your hand that picks up the salt, you do not think of the event in terms of a chain of physical causation. You experience it as caused by a decision that a disembodied you made, because you wanted to add salt to your food. Many people find it natural to describe their soul as the source and the cause of their actions. The psychologist Paul Bloom, writing in The Atlantic in 2005, presented the provocative claim that our inborn readiness to separate physical and intentional causality explains the near universality of religious beliefs. He observes that "we perceive the world of objects as essentially separate from the world of minds, making it possible for us to envision soulless bodies and bodiless souls.' The two modes of causation that we are set to perceive make it natural for us to accept the two central beliefs of many religions: an immaterial divinity is the ultimate cause of the physical world, and immortal souls temporarily control our bodies while we live and leave them behind as we die. In Bloom's view, the two concepts of causality were shaped separately by evolutionary forces," -Daniel Kahneman 
"The brains of humans contain a mechanism that is designed to give priority to bad news." -Daniel Kahneman 
"our excessive confidence in what we believe we know, and our apparent inability to acknowledge the full extent of our ignorance and the uncertainty of the world we live in. We are prone to overestimate how much we understand about the world and to underestimate the role of chance in events. Overconfidence is fed by the illusory certainty of hindsight." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Many people find the priming results unbelievable, because they do not correspond to subjective experience. Many others find the results upsetting, because they threaten the subjective sense of agency and autonomy. If the content of a screen saver on an irrelevant computer can affect your willingness to help strangers without your being aware of it, how free are you? Anchoring" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Much of the discussion in this book is about biases of intuition. However, the focus on error does not denigrate human intelligence, any more than the attention to diseases in medical texts denies good health." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Maintaining one's vigilance against biases is a chore--but the chance to avoid a costly mistake is sometimes worth the effort." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The effects of high optimism on decision making are, at best, a mixed blessing, but the contribution of optimism to good implementation is certainly positive. The main benefit of optimism is resilience in the face of setbacks." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The first surprise is that people's guesses are much more accurate than they would be by chance. I find this astonishing. A sense of cognitive ease is apparently generated by a very faint signal from the associative machine, which "knows' that the three words are coherent (share an association) long before the association is retrieved." -Daniel Kahneman 
"For a number of years, professors at Duke University conducted a survey in which the chief financial officers of large corporations estimated the returns of the Standard & Poor's index over the following year. The Duke scholars collected 11,600 such forecasts and examined their accuracy. The conclusion was straightforward: financial officers of large corporations had no clue about the short-term future of the stock market; the correlation between their estimates and the true value was slightly less than zero!" -Daniel Kahneman 
"To think clearly about the future, we need to clean up the language that we use in labeling the beliefs we had in the past." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Many researchers have sought the secret of successful education by identifying the most successful schools in the hope of discovering what distinguishes them from others. One of the conclusions of this research is that the most successful schools, on average, are small. In a survey of 1,662 schools in Pennsylvania, for instance, 6 of the top 50 were small, which is an overrepresentation by a factor of 4. These data encouraged the Gates Foundation to make a substantial investment in the creation of small schools, sometimes by splitting large schools into smaller units. At least half a dozen other prominent institutions, such as the Annenberg Foundation and the Pew Charitable Trust, joined the effort, as did the U.S. Department of Education's Smaller Learning Communities Program. This probably makes intuitive sense to you. It is easy to construct a causal story that explains how small schools are able to provide superior education and thus produce high-achieving scholars by giving them more personal attention and encouragement than they could get in larger schools. Unfortunately, the causal analysis is pointless because the facts are wrong. If the statisticians who reported to the Gates Foundation had asked about the characteristics of the worst schools, they would have found that bad schools also tend to be smaller than average. The truth is that small schools are not better on average; they are simply more variable. If anything, say Wainer and Zwerling, large schools tend to produce better results, especially in higher grades where a variety of curricular options is valuable. Thanks to recent advances in cognitive psychology," -Daniel Kahneman 
"Why be concerned with gossip? Because it is much easier, as well as far more enjoyable, to identify and label the mistakes of others than to recognize our own." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Because it is much easier, as well as far more enjoyable, to identify and label the mistakes of others than to recognize our own. Questioning what we believe and want is difficult at the" -Daniel Kahneman 
"In today's world, terrorists are the most significant practitioners of the art of inducing availability cascades. With a few horrible exceptions such as 9/11, the number of casualties from terror attacks is very small relative to other causes of death. Even in countries that have been targets of intensive terror campaigns, such as Israel, the weekly number of casualties almost never came close to the number of traffic deaths. The difference is in the availability of the two risks, the ease and the frequency with which they come to mind. Gruesome images, endlessly repeated in the media, cause everyone to be on edge. As" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The classic experiment I describe next shows that people will not draw from base-rate information an inference that conflicts with other beliefs. It also supports the uncomfortable conclusion that teaching psychology is mostly a waste of time." -Daniel Kahneman 
"you know far less about yourself than you feel you do." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Taleb suggests that we humans constantly fool ourselves by constructing flimsy accounts of the past and believing they are true." -Daniel Kahneman 
"For example, students of policy have noted that the availability heuristic helps explain why some issues are highly salient in the public's mind while others are neglected. People tend to assess the relative importance of issues by the ease with which they are retrieved from memory--and this is largely determined by the extent of coverage in the media." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Companies with pronounceable names do better than others for the first week after the stock is issued," -Daniel Kahneman 
"Claims for correct intuitions in an unpredictable situation are self-delusional at best, sometimes worse." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The psychologist Paul Slovic has proposed an affect heuristic in which people let their likes and dislikes determine their beliefs about the world. Your political preference determines the arguments that you find compelling. If you like the current health policy, you believe its benefits are substantial and its costs more manageable than the costs of alternatives." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The psychology of accurate intuition involves no magic. Perhaps the best short statement of it is by the great Herbert Simon, who studied chess masters and showed that after thousands of hours of practice they come to see the pieces on the board differently from the rest of us. You can feel Simon's impatience with the mythologizing of expert intuition when he writes: "The situation has provided a cue; this cue has given the expert access to information stored in memory, and the information provides the answer. Intuition is nothing more and nothing less than recognition." -Daniel Kahneman 
"We all have our genre. Some people live a tragedy, others inhabit a never-ending religious drama, some approach life as if it were an action film, and not a few act as if in a comedy. But in the end, they are all just stories." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The prominence of causal intuitions is a recurrent theme in this book because people are prone to apply causal thinking inappropriately, to situations that require statistical reasoning." -Daniel Kahneman 
"An unbiased appreciation of uncertainty is a cornerstone of rationality--but it is not what people and organizations want. Extreme uncertainty is paralyzing under dangerous circumstances, and the admission that one is merely guessing is especially unacceptable when the stakes are high. Acting on pretended knowledge is often the preferred solution." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Because adherence to standard operating procedures is difficult to second-guess, decision makers who expect to have their decisions scrutinized with hindsight are driven to bureaucratic solutions--and to an extreme reluctance to take risks." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Caring for people often takes the form of concern for the quality of their stories, not for their feelings." -Daniel Kahneman 
"One of the significant discoveries of cognitive psychologists in recent decades is that switching from one task to another is effortful, especially under time pressure." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The goal of venture capitalists is to call the extreme cases correctly, even at the cost of overestimating the prospects of many other ventures." -Daniel Kahneman 
"An availability cascade is a self-sustaining chain of events, which may start from media reports of a relatively minor event and lead up to public panic and large-scale government action. On some occasions, a media story about a risk catches the attention of a segment of the public, which becomes aroused and worried. This emotional reaction becomes a story in itself, prompting additional coverage in the media, which in turn produces greater concern and involvement. The cycle is sometimes sped along deliberately by "availability entrepreneurs,' individuals or organizations who work to ensure a continuous flow of worrying news. The danger is increasingly exaggerated as the media compete for attention-grabbing headlines. Scientists and others who try to dampen the increasing fear and revulsion attract little attention, most of it hostile: anyone who claims that the danger is overstated is suspected of association with a "heinous cover-up.' The issue becomes politically important because it is on everyone's mind, and the response of the political system is guided by the intensity of public sentiment. The availability cascade has now reset priorities. Other risks, and other ways that resources could be applied for the public good, all have faded into the background." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Whenever we can replace human judgment by a formula, we should at least consider it." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Widespread fears, even if they are unreasonable, should not be ignored by policy makers. Rational or not, fear is painful and debilitating, and policy makers must endeavor to protect the public from fear, not only from real dangers." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The evidence suggests that optimism is widespread, stubborn, and costly." -Daniel Kahneman 
"impressions, feelings, and inclinations; when endorsed by System 2 these become beliefs, attitudes, and intentions" -Daniel Kahneman 
"We reach the point of diminishing marginal predictive returns for knowledge disconcertingly quickly,' Tetlock writes. "In this age of academic hyperspecialization, there is no reason for supposing that contributors to top journals--distinguished political scientists, area study specialists, economists, and so on--are any better than journalists or attentive readers of The New York Times in 'reading' emerging situations.' The" -Daniel Kahneman 
"CHARACTERISTICS OF SYSTEM 1 generates impressions, feelings, and inclinations; when endorsed by System 2 these become beliefs, attitudes, and intentions operates automatically and quickly, with little or no effort, and no sense of voluntary control can be programmed by System 2 to mobilize attention when a particular pattern is detected (search) executes skilled responses and generates skilled intuitions, after adequate training creates a coherent pattern of activated ideas in associative memory links a sense of cognitive ease to illusions of truth, pleasant feelings, and reduced vigilance distinguishes the surprising from the normal infers and invents causes and intentions neglects ambiguity and suppresses doubt is biased to believe and confirm exaggerates emotional consistency (halo effect) focuses on existing evidence and ignores absent evidence (WYSIATI) generates a limited set of basic assessments represents sets by norms and prototypes, does not integrate matches intensities across scales (e.g., size to loudness) computes more than intended (mental shotgun) sometimes substitutes an easier question for a difficult one (heuristics) is more sensitive to changes than to states (prospect theory)* overweights low probabilities* shows diminishing sensitivity to quantity (psychophysics)* responds more strongly to losses than to gains (loss aversion)* frames decision problems narrowly, in isolation from one another*" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The best possible account of the data provides bad news: tired and hungry judges tend to fall back on the easier default position of denying requests for parole. Both fatigue and hunger probably play a role." -Daniel Kahneman 
"recent research that has introduced a distinction between two selves, the experiencing self and the remembering self, which do not have the same interests. For example, we can expose people to two painful experiences. One of these experiences is strictly worse than the other, because it is longer. But the automatic formation of memories--a feature of System 1--has its rules, which we can exploit so that the worse episode leaves a better memory. When people later choose which episode to repeat, they are, naturally, guided by their remembering self and expose themselves (their experiencing self) to unnecessary pain." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Many activities can induce a sense of flow, from painting to racing motorcycles--and" -Daniel Kahneman 
"I am my remembering self, and the experiencing self, who does my living, is like a stranger to me." -Daniel Kahneman 
"For example, the question "Do you now feel a slight numbness in your left leg?' always prompts quite a few people to report that their left leg does indeed feel a little strange." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Half the participants were told to nod their head up and down while others were told to shake it side to side. The messages they heard were radio editorials. Those who nodded (a yes gesture) tended to accept the message they heard, but those who shook their head tended to reject it. Again, there was no awareness, just a habitual connection between an attitude of rejection or acceptance and its common physical expression. You can see why the common admonition to "act calm and kind regardless of how you feel' is very good advice: you are likely to be rewarded by actually feeling calm and kind." -Daniel Kahneman 
"best we can do is a compromise: learn to recognize situations in which mistakes are likely and try harder to avoid significant mistakes when the stakes are high. The premise of this book is that it is easier to recognize other people's mistakes than our own." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Compare two commitments that will change some aspects of your life: buying a comfortable new car and joining a group that meets weekly, perhaps a poker or book club. Both experiences will be novel and exciting at the start. The crucial difference is that you will eventually pay little attention to the car as you drive it, but you will always attend to the social interaction to which you committed yourself. By WYSIATI (it's an acronym explained at the beginning of the book to explain how we only take into account minimal information of the type that we can most readily access e.g. how we're feeling right at this moment to answer how we feel about our lives in general) you are likely to exaggerate the long-term benefits of the car, but you are not likely to make the same mistake for a social gathering or for inherently attention-demanding activities such as playing tennis or learning to play the cello. The focusing illusion (your focus on something makes it feel more important than it actually is at that moment in time when you're focussing on it) creates a bias in favour of goods and experiences that are initially exciting, even if they will eventually lose their appeal. Time is neglected, causing experiences that will retain their attention value in the long term to be appreciated less than they deserve to be." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Regression effects are ubiquitous, and so are misguided causal stories to explain them. A well-known example is the "Sports Illustrated jinx,' the claim that an athlete whose picture appears on the cover of the magazine is doomed to perform poorly the following season. Overconfidence and the pressure of meeting high expectations are often offered as explanations. But there is a simpler account of the jinx: an athlete who gets to be on the cover of Sports Illustrated must have performed exceptionally well in the preceding season, probably with the assistance of a nudge from luck--and luck is fickle. I happened to watch the men's ski jump event in the Winter Olympics while Amos and I were writing an article about intuitive prediction. Each athlete has two jumps in the event, and the results are combined for the final score. I was startled to hear the sportscaster's comments while athletes were preparing for their second jump: "Norway had a great first jump; he will be tense, hoping to protect his lead and will probably do worse' or "Sweden had a bad first jump and now he knows he has nothing to lose and will be relaxed, which should help him do better.' The commentator had obviously detected regression to the mean and had invented a causal story for which there was no evidence. The story itself could even be true. Perhaps if we measured the athletes' pulse before each jump we might find that they are indeed more relaxed after a bad first jump. And perhaps not. The point to remember is that the change from the first to the second jump does not need a causal explanation. It is a mathematically inevitable consequence of the fact that luck played a role in the outcome of the first jump. Not a very satisfactory story--we would all prefer a causal account--but that is all there is." -Daniel Kahneman 
"This set of choices has a lot to tell us about the limits of human rationality. For one thing, it helps us see the logical consistency of Human preferences for what it is--a hopeless mirage." -Daniel Kahneman 
"You just like winning and dislike losing--and you almost certainly dislike losing more than you like winning." -Daniel Kahneman 
"One of Hess's findings especially captured my attention. He had noticed that the pupils are sensitive indicators of mental effort--they dilate substantially when people multiply two-digit numbers, and they dilate more if the problems are hard than if they are easy. His observations indicated that the response to mental effort is distinct from emotional arousal. Hess's work did not have much to do with hypnosis, but I concluded that the idea of a visible indication of mental effort had promise as a research topic. A graduate student in the lab, Jackson Beatty, shared my enthusiasm and we got to work." -Daniel Kahneman 
"It is wrong to blame anyone for failing to forecast accurately in an unpredictable world. However, it seems fair to blame professionals for believing they can succeed in an impossible task." -Daniel Kahneman 
"When you are in a state of cognitive ease, you are probably in a good mood, like what you see, believe what you hear, trust your intuitions, and feel that the current situation is comfortably familiar. You are also likely to be relatively casual and superficial in your thinking. When you feel strained, you are more likely to be vigilant and suspicious, invest more effort in what you are doing, feel less comfortable, and make fewer errors, but you also are less intuitive and less creative than usual." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Intelligence is not only the ability to reason; it is also the ability to find relevant material in memory and to deploy attention when needed. Memory" -Daniel Kahneman 
"focusing illusion, which can be described in a single sentence: Nothing in life is as important as you think it is when you are thinking about it." -Daniel Kahneman 
"message, unless it is immediately rejected as a lie, will have the same effect on the associative system regardless of its reliability." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The illusion that one has understood the past feeds the further illusion that one can predict and control the future." -Daniel Kahneman 
"learn to recognize situations in which mistakes are likely and try harder to avoid significant mistakes when the stakes are high. The premise of this book is that it is easier to recognize other people's mistakes than our own." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The sunk-cost fallacy keeps people for too long in poor jobs, unhappy marriages, and unpromising research projects." -Daniel Kahneman 
"You build the best possible story from the information available to you, and if it is a good story, you believe it. Paradoxically, it is easier to construct a coherent story when you know little, when there are fewer pieces to fit into the puzzle. Our comforting conviction that the world makes sense rests on a secure foundation: our almost unlimited ability to ignore our ignorance." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The mystery is how a [theory] that is vulnerable to such obvious counterexamples survived for so long. I can explain it only by a weakness of the scholarly mind that I have often observed in myself. I call it theory-induced blindness: once you have accepted a theory and used it as a tool in your thinking, it is extraordinarily difficult to notice its flaws. If you come upon an observation that does not seem to fit the model, you assume that there must be a perfectly good explanation that you are somehow missing. You give the theory the benefit of the doubt, trusting the community of experts who have accepted it. Many scholars have surely thought at one time or another of stories such as [the above examples], and casually noted that these stories did not jibe with utility theory. But they did not pursue the idea to the point of saying, "This theory is seriously wrong because it ignores the fact that utility depends on the history of one's wealth, not only on present wealth.' As the psychologist Daniel Gilbert observed, disbelieving is hard work, and System 2 is easily tired." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Exaggerated Emotional Coherence (Halo Effect) If you like the president's politics, you probably like his voice and his appearance as well. The tendency to like (or dislike) everything about a person--including things you have not observed--is known as the halo effect. The term has been in use in psychology for a century, but it has not come into wide use in everyday language. This is a pity, because the halo effect is a good name for a common bias that plays a large role in shaping our view of people and situations. It is one of the ways the representation of the world that System 1 generates is simpler and more coherent than the real thing. You meet a woman named Joan at a party and find her personable and easy to talk to. Now her name comes up as someone who could be asked to contribute to a charity. What do you know about Joan's generosity? The correct answer is that you know virtually nothing, because there is little reason to believe that people who are agreeable in social situations are also generous contributors to charities. But you like Joan and you will retrieve the feeling of liking her when you think of her. You also like generosity and generous people. By association, you are now predisposed to believe that Joan is generous. And now that you believe she is generous, you probably like Joan even better than you did earlier, because you have added generosity to her pleasant attributes." -Daniel Kahneman 
"the pupils are sensitive indicators of mental effort--they dilate substantially when people multiply two-digit numbers," -Daniel Kahneman 
"premortem. The procedure is simple: when the organization has almost come to an important decision but has not formally committed itself, Klein proposes gathering for a brief session a group of individuals who are knowledgeable about the decision. The premise of the session is a short speech: "Imagine that we are a year into the future. We implemented the plan as it now exists. The outcome was a disaster. Please take 5 to 10 minutes to write a brief history of that disaster." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Many unfortunate human situations unfold [. . .] where people who face bad options take desperate gambles, accepting a high probability of making things worse in exchange for a small hope of avoiding a large loss. The thought of accepting the large sure loss is too painful, and the hope of complete relief is too enticing, to make the sensible decision that it is time to cut one's losses." -Daniel Kahneman 
"students of policy have noted that the availability heuristic helps explain why some issues are highly salient in the public's mind while others are neglected. People tend to assess the relative importance of issues by the ease with which they are retrieved from memory--and this is largely determined by the extent of coverage in the media." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The technical definition of heuristic is a simple procedure that helps find adequate, though often imperfect, answers to difficult questions. The" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Animals, including people, fight harder to prevent losses than to achieve gains. In the world of territorial animals, this principle explains the success of defenders. A biologist observed that "when a territory holder is challenged by a rival, the owner almost always wins the contest--usually within a matter of seconds.' In human affairs, the same simple rule explains much of what happens when institutions attempt to reform themselves, in "reorganizations' and "restructuring' of companies, and in efforts to rationalize a bureaucracy, simplify the tax code, or reduce medical costs. As initially conceived, plans for reform almost always produce many winners and some losers while achieving an overall improvement. If the affected parties have any political influence, however, potential losers will be more active and determined than potential winners; the outcome will be biased in their favor and inevitably more expensive and less effective than initially planned. Reforms commonly include grandfather clauses that protect current stake-holders--for example, when the existing workforce is reduced by attrition rather than by dismissals, or when cuts in salaries and benefits apply only to future workers. Loss aversion is a powerful conservative force that favors minimal changes from the status quo in the lives of both institutions and individuals." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Researchers who pick too small a sample leave themselves at the mercy of sampling luck." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Put your ideas in verse if you can; they will be more likely to be taken as truth." -Daniel Kahneman 
"It is wrong to blame anyone for failing to forecast accurately in an unpredictable world. However, it seems fair to blame professionals for believing they can succeed in an impossible task. Claims" -Daniel Kahneman 
"As I described earlier, System 1 is not prone to doubt. It suppresses ambiguity and spontaneously constructs stories that are as coherent as possible. Unless the message is immediately negated, the associations that it evokes will spread as if the message were true. System 2 is capable of doubt, because it can maintain incompatible possibilities at the same time." -Daniel Kahneman 
"To teach students any psychology they did not know before, you must surprise them. But which surprise will do? Nisbett and Borgida found that when they presented their students with a surprising statistical fact, the students managed to learn nothing at all. But when the students were surprised by individual cases…they immediately made the generalization…Nisbett and Borgida summarize the results in a memorable sentence: 'Subjects' unwillingness to deduce the particular from the general was matched only by their willingness to infer the general from the particular." -Daniel Kahneman 
"During a mental multiplication, the pupil normally dilated to a large size within a few seconds and stayed large as long as the individual kept working on the problem; it contracted immediately when she found a solution or gave up." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Why did you stop working just now?' The answer from inside the lab was often, "How did you know?' to which we would reply, "We have a window to your soul." -Daniel Kahneman 
"I was surprised to see that the pupil remained small and did not noticeably dilate as she talked and listened. Unlike the tasks that we were studying, the mundane conversation apparently demanded little or no effort--no more than retaining two or three digits." -Daniel Kahneman 
"How many animals of each kind did Moses take into the ark?" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The remembering self's neglect of duration, its exaggerated emphasis on peaks and ends, and its susceptibility to hindsight combine to yield distorted reflections of our actual experience." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Dawes showed that marital stability is well predicted by a formula: frequency of lovemaking minus frequency of quarrels" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Their recommendation is that you should not put too much weight on regret; even if you have some, it will hurt less than you now think." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Errors in the initial budget are not always innocent. The authors of unrealistic plans are often driven by the desire to get the plan approved--whether by their superiors or by a client--supported by the knowledge that projects are rarely abandoned unfinished merely because of overruns in costs or completion times. In" -Daniel Kahneman 
"You can see why the common admonition to "act calm and kind regardless of how you feel' is very good advice: you are likely to be rewarded by actually feeling calm and kind." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Her favorite position is beside herself, and her favorite sport is jumping to conclusions." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The testers found that training attention not only improved executive control; scores on nonverbal tests of intelligence also improved and the improvement was maintained for several months." -Daniel Kahneman 
"System 2 and the electrical circuits in your home both have limited capacity, but they respond differently to threatened overload. A breaker trips when the demand for current is excessive, causing all devices on that circuit to lose power at once. In contrast, the response to mental overload is selective and precise: System 2 protects the most important activity, so it receives the attention it needs; "spare capacity' is allocated second by second to other tasks. In our version of the gorilla experiment, we instructed the participants to assign priority to the digit task. We know that they followed that instruction, because the timing of the visual target had no effect on the main task. If the critical letter was presented at a time of high demand, the subjects simply did not see it. When the transformation task was less demanding, detection performance was better." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Loss aversion is a powerful conservative force that favors minimal changes from the status quo" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The easiest way to increase happiness is to control your use of time. Can you find more time to do the things you enjoy doing?" -Daniel Kahneman 
"At work here is that powerful WYSIATI (what you see is all there is) rule. You cannot help dealing with the limited information you have as if it were all there is to know. You build the best possible story from the information available to you, and if it is a good story, you believe it. Paradoxically, it is easier to construct a coherent story when you know little, when there are fewer pieces to fit into the puzzle. Our comforting conviction that the world makes sense rests on a secure foundation: our almost unlimited ability to ignore our ignorance." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The psychology of accurate intuition involves no magic. Perhaps the best short statement of it is by the great Herbert Simon, who studied chess masters and showed that after thousands of hours of practice they come to see the pieces on the board differently from the rest of us." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The situation has provided a cue; this cue has given the expert access to information stored in memory, and the information provides the answer. Intuition is nothing more and nothing less than recognition." -Daniel Kahneman 
"One of the best-known studies of availability suggests that awareness of your own biases can contribute to peace in marriages, and probably in other joint projects. In a famous study, spouses were asked, "How large was your personal contribution to keeping the place tidy, in percentages?' They also answered similar questions about "taking out the garbage,' "initiating social engagements,' etc. Would the self-estimated contributions add up to 100%, or more, or less? As expected, the self-assessed contributions added up to more than 100%. The explanation is a simple availability bias: both spouses remember their own individual efforts and contributions much more clearly than those of the other, and the difference in availability leads to a difference in judged frequency." -Daniel Kahneman 
"A stupid decision that works out well becomes a brilliant decision in hindsight." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Much like the electricity meter outside your house or apartment, the pupils offer an index of the current rate at which mental energy is used. The analogy goes deep. Your use of electricity depends on what you choose to do, whether to light a room or toast a piece of bread. When you turn on a bulb or a toaster, it draws the energy it needs but no more. Similarly, we decide what to do, but we have limited control over the effort of doing it." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The technical definition of heuristic is a simple procedure that helps find adequate, though often imperfect, answers to difficult questions. The word comes from the same root as eureka." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Changing one's mind about human nature is hard work, and changing one's mind for the worse about oneself is even harder. Nisbett" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Conflict between an automatic reaction and an intention to control it is common in our lives." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Participants in a well-known experiment are given a choice of drawing a marble from one of two urns, in which red marbles win a prize: Urn A contains 10 marbles, of which 1 is red. Urn B contains 100 marbles, of which 8 are red. Which urn would you choose? The chances of winning are 10% in urn A and 8% in urn B, so making the right choice should be easy, but it is not: about 30%–40% of students choose the urn with the larger number of winning marbles, rather than the urn that provides a better chance of winning." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Simple equally weighted formulas based on existing statistics or on common sense are often very good predictors of significant outcomes. In a memorable example, Dawes showed that marital stability is well predicted by a formula: frequency of lovemaking minus frequency of quarrels You don't want your result to be a negative number." -Daniel Kahneman 
"creativity is associative memory that works exceptionally well." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Not all illusions are visual. There are illusions of thought, which we call cognitive illusions." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The amount of evidence and its quality do not count for much, because poor evidence can make a very good story. For some of our most important beliefs we have no evidence at all, except that people we love and trust hold these beliefs. Considering how little we know, the confidence we have in our beliefs is preposterous - and it is also essential." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Rational or not, fear is painful and debilitating, and policy makers must endeavor to protect the public from fear, not only from real dangers." -Daniel Kahneman 
"As Nassim Taleb pointed out in The Black Swan, our tendency to construct and believe coherent narratives of the past makes it difficult for us to accept the limits of our forecasting ability. Everything makes sense in hindsight, a fact that financial pundits exploit every evening as they offer convincing accounts of the day's events." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Laziness is built deep into our nature." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Consider the following: "Will Mindik be a good leader? She is intelligent and strong…' An answer quickly came to your mind, and it was yes. You picked the best answer based on the very limited information available, but you jumped the gun. What if the next two adjectives were corrupt and cruel? Take note of what you did not do as you briefly thought of Mindik as a leader. You did not start by asking, "What would I need to know before I formed an opinion about the quality of someone's leadership?' System 1 got to work on its own from the first adjective: intelligent is good, intelligent and strong is very good. This is the best story that can be constructed from two adjectives, and System 1 delivered it with great cognitive ease. The story will be revised if new information comes in (such as Mindik is corrupt), but there is no waiting and no subjective discomfort. And there also remains a bias favoring the first impression." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Searching for wisdom in historic events requires an act of faith--a belief in the existence of recurrent patterns waiting to be discovered." -Daniel Kahneman 
"If the content of a screen saver on an irrelevant computer can affect your willingness to help strangers without your being aware of it, how free are you?" -Daniel Kahneman 
"We saw in the discussion of the law of small numbers that a message, unless it is immediately rejected as a lie, will have the same effect on the associative system regardless of its reliability. The gist of the message is the story, which is based on whatever information is available, even if the quantity of the information is slight and its quality is poor: WYSIATI. When you read a story about the heroic rescue of a wounded mountain climber, its effect on your associative memory is much the same if it is a news report or the synopsis of a film. Anchoring results from this associative activation. Whether the story is true, or believable, matters little, if at all. The powerful effect of random anchors is an extreme case of this phenomenon, because a random anchor obviously provides no information at all. Earlier I discussed the bewildering variety of priming effects, in which your thoughts and behavior may be influenced by stimuli to which you pay no attention at all, and even by stimuli of which you are completely unaware. The main moral of priming research is that our thoughts and our behavior are influenced, much more than we know or want, by the environment of the moment. Many people find the priming results unbelievable, because they do not correspond to subjective experience. Many others find the results upsetting, because they threaten the subjective sense of agency and autonomy. If the content of a screen saver on an irrelevant computer can affect your willingness to help strangers without your being aware of it, how free are you? Anchoring effects are threatening in a similar way. You are always aware of the anchor and even pay attention to it, but you do not know how it guides and constrains your thinking, because you cannot imagine how you would have thought if the anchor had been different (or absent). However, you should assume that any number that is on the table has had an anchoring effect on you, and if the stakes are high you should mobilize yourself (your System 2) to combat the effect." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Words that you have seen before become easier to see again--you can identify them better than other words when they are shown very briefly or masked by noise, and you will be quicker (by a few hundredths of a second) to read them than to read other words. In short, you experience greater cognitive ease in perceiving a word you have seen earlier, and it is this sense of ease that gives you the impression of familiarity." -Daniel Kahneman 
"As in many other games, moving first is an advantage in single-issue negotiations--for example, when price is the only issue to be settled between a buyer and a seller. As you may have experienced when negotiating for the first time in a bazaar, the initial anchor has a powerful effect. My" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The question that the executive faced (should I invest in Ford stock?) was difficult, but the answer to an easier and related question (do I like Ford cars?) came readily to his mind and determined his choice. This is the essence of intuitive heuristics: when faced with a difficult question, we often answer an easier one instead, usually without noticing the substitution." -Daniel Kahneman 
"A good mood is a signal that things are generally going well, the environment is safe, and it is all right to let one's guard down. A bad mood indicates that things are not going very well, there may be a threat, and vigilance is required. Cognitive ease is both a cause and a consequence of a pleasant feeling." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Zajonc argued that the effect of repetition on liking is a profoundly im- portant biological fact, and that it extends to all animals." -Daniel Kahneman 
"What you see is all there is" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The most surprising discovery made by Baumeister's group shows, as he puts it, that the idea of mental energy is more than a mere metaphor. The nervous system consumes more glucose than most other parts of the body, and effortful mental activity appears to be especially expensive in the currency of glucose. When you are actively involved in difficult cognitive reasoning or engaged in a task that requires self-control, your blood glucose level drops. The effect is analogous to a runner who draws down glucose stored in her muscles during a sprint. The bold implication of this idea is that the effects of ego depletion could be undone by ingesting glucose, and Baumeister and his colleagues have confirmed this hypothesis in several experiments. Volunteers in one of their studies watched a short silent film of a woman being interviewed and were asked to interpret her body language. While they were performing the task, a series of words crossed the screen in slow succession. The participants were specifically instructed to ignore the words, and if they found their attention drawn away they had to refocus their concentration on the woman's behavior. This act of self-control was known to cause ego depletion. All the volunteers drank some lemonade before participating in a second task. The lemonade was sweetened with glucose for half of them and with Splenda for the others. Then all participants were given a task in which they needed to overcome an intuitive response to get the correct answer. Intuitive errors are normally much more frequent among ego-depleted people, and the drinkers of Splenda showed the expected depletion effect. On the other hand, the glucose drinkers were not depleted. Restoring the level of available sugar in the brain had prevented the deterioration of performance. It will take some time and much further research to establish whether the tasks that cause glucose-depletion also cause the momentary arousal that is reflected in increases of pupil size and heart rate." -Daniel Kahneman 
"This is a profoundly important conclusion. People who are taught surprising statistical facts about human behavior may be impressed to the point of telling their friends about what they have heard, but this does not mean that their understanding of the world has really changed. The test of learning psychology is whether your understanding of situations you encounter has changed, not whether you have learned a new fact. There is a deep gap between our thinking about statistics and our thinking about individual cases. Statistical results with a causal interpretation have a stronger effect on our thinking than noncausal information. But even compelling causal statistics will not change long-held beliefs or beliefs rooted in personal experience. On the other hand, surprising individual cases have a powerful impact and are a more effective tool for teaching psychology because the incongruity must be resolved and embedded in a causal story. That is why this book contains questions that are addressed personally to the reader. You are more likely to learn something by finding surprises in your own behavior than by hearing surprising facts about people in general." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Every author, I suppose, has in mind a setting in which readers of his or her work could benefit from having read it." -Daniel Kahneman 
"In an article titled "Consequences of Erudite Vernacular Utilized Irrespective of Necessity: Problems with Using Long Words Needlessly,' he showed that couching familiar ideas in pretentious language is taken as a sign of poor intelligence and low credibility." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The halo effect helps keep explanatory narratives simple and coherent by exaggerating the consistency of evaluations: good people do only good things and bad people are all bad. The statement "Hitler loved dogs and little children' is shocking no matter how many times you hear it, because any trace of kindness in someone so evil violates the expectations set up by the halo effect. Inconsistencies reduce the ease of our thoughts and the clarity of our feelings." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Stories of how businesses rise and fall strike a chord with readers by offering what the human mind needs: a simple message of triumph and failure that identifies clear causes and ignores the determinative power of luck and the inevitability of regression. These stories induce and maintain an illusion of understanding, imparting lessons of little enduring value to readers who are all too eager to believe them." -Daniel Kahneman 
"correlation and regression are not two concepts--they are different perspectives on the same concept. The general rule is straightforward but has surprising consequences: whenever the correlation between two scores is imperfect, there will be regression to the mean." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The observed regression to the mean cannot be more interesting or more explainable than the imperfect correlation." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The evidence of priming studies suggests that reminding people of their mortality increases the appeal of authoritarian ideas," -Daniel Kahneman 
"Considering how little we know, the confidence we have in our beliefs is preposterous--and it is also essential." -Daniel Kahneman 
"regression to the mean has an explanation but does not have a cause." -Daniel Kahneman 
"people form opinions and make choices that directly express their feelings and their basic tendency to approach or avoid, often without knowing that they are doing so. The" -Daniel Kahneman 
"We must be inclined to believe it because it has been repeated so often, but let's think it through again." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Baumeister's group has repeatedly found that an effort of will or self-control is tiring; if you have had to force yourself to do something, you are less willing or less able to exert self-control when the next challenge comes around. The phenomenon has been named ego depletion. In" -Daniel Kahneman 
"In normal circumstances, however, we draw pleasure and pain from what is happening at the moment, if we attend to it. To get pleasure from eating, for example, you must notice that you are doing it. We found that French and American women spent about the same amount of time eating, but for Frenchwomen, eating was twice as likely to be focal as it was for American women. The Americans were far more prone to combine eating with other activities, and their pleasure from eating was correspondingly diluted." -Daniel Kahneman 
"One of the best-known studies of availability suggests that awareness of your own biases can contribute to peace in marriages, and probably in other joint projects. In a famous study, spouses were asked, "How large was your personal contribution to keeping the place tidy, in percentages?' They also answered similar questionsabout "taking out the garbage,' "initiating social engagements,' etc. Would the self-estimated contributions add up to 100%, or more, or less? As expected, the self-assessed contributions added up to more than 100%. The explanation is a simpleavailability bias: both spouses remember their own individual efforts and contributions much more clearly than those of the other, and the difference in availability leads to a difference in judged frequency. The bias is not necessarily self-serving: spouses also overestimated their contribution to causing quarrels, although to a smaller contribution to causing quarrels, although to a smallerextent than their contributions to more desirable outcomes. The same bias contributes to the common observation that many members of a collaborative teamfeel they have done more than their share and also feel that the others are not adequately grateful for their individual contributions" -Daniel Kahneman 
"You think with your body, not with your brain." -Daniel Kahneman 
"It is normally easy and actually quite pleasant to walk and think at the same time, but at the extremes these activities appear to compete for the limited resources of System 2. You can confirm this claim by a simple experiment. While walking comfortably with a friend, ask him to compute 23 × 78 in his head, and to do so immediately. He will almost certainly stop in his tracks." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Subjective confidence in a judgment is not a reasoned evaluation of the probability that this judgment is correct. Confidence is a feeling, which reflects the coherence of the information and the cognitive ease of processing it. It is wise to take admissions of uncertainty seriously, but declarations of high confidence mainly tell you that an individual has constructed a coherent story in his mind, not necessarily that the story is true." -Daniel Kahneman 
"My experience is that I can think while strolling but cannot engage in mental work that imposes a heavy load on short-term memory." -Daniel Kahneman 
"In an experiment that became an instant classic, the psychologist John Bargh and his collaborators asked students at New York University--most aged eighteen to twenty-two--to assemble four-word sentences from a set of five words (for example, "finds he it yellow instantly'). For one group of students, half the scrambled sentences contained words associated with the elderly, such as Florida, forgetful, bald, gray, or wrinkle. When they had completed that task, the young participants were sent out to do another experiment in an office down the hall. That short walk was what the experiment was about. The researchers unobtrusively measured the time it took people to get from one end of the corridor to the other. As Bargh had predicted, the young people who had fashioned a sentence from words with an elderly theme walked down the hallway significantly more slowly than the others." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Whether professionals have a chance to develop intuitive expertise depends essentially on the quality and speed of feedback, as well as on sufficient opportunity to practice." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The psychologist Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi (pronounced six-cent-mihaly) has done more than anyone else to study this state of effortless attending, and the name he proposed for it, flow, has become part of the language. People who experience flow describe it as "a state of effortless concentration so deep that they lose their sense of time, of themselves, of their problems," -Daniel Kahneman 
"One day over breakfast, a medical resident asked how Dr. Apgar would make a systematic assessment of a newborn. "That's easy,' she replied. "You would do it like this.' Apgar jotted down five variables (heart rate, respiration, reflex, muscle tone, and color) and three scores (0, 1, or 2, depending on the robustness of each sign). Realizing that she might have made a breakthrough that any delivery room could implement, Apgar began rating infants by this rule one minute after they were born. A baby with a total score of 8 or above was likely to be pink, squirming, crying, grimacing, with a pulse of 100 or more--in good shape. A baby with a score of 4 or below was probably bluish, flaccid, passive, with a slow or weak pulse--in need of immediate intervention. Applying Apgar's score, the staff in delivery rooms finally had consistent standards for determining which babies were in trouble, and the formula is credited for an important contribution to reducing infant mortality. The Apgar test is still used every day in every delivery room." -Daniel Kahneman 
"We are often confident even when we are wrong, and an objective observer is more likely to detect our errors than we are." -Daniel Kahneman 
"This should not come as a surprise: overly optimistic forecasts of the outcome of projects are found everywhere. Amos and I coined the term planning fallacy to describe plans and forecasts that are unrealistically close to best-case scenarios could be improved by consulting the statistics of similar cases Examples of the planning fallacy abound in the experiences of individuals, governments, and businesses." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Loss aversion refers to the relative strength of two motives: we are driven more strongly to avoid losses than to achieve gains. A reference point is sometimes the status quo, but it can also be a goal in the future: not achieving a goal is a loss, exceeding the goal is a gain. As we might expect from negativity dominance, the two motives are not equally powerful. The aversion to the failure of not reaching the goal is much stronger than the desire to exceed it. People often adopt short-term goals that they strive to achieve but not necessarily to exceed. They are likely to reduce their efforts when they have reached an immediate goal, with results that sometimes violate economic logic. New York cabdrivers, for example, may have a target income for the month or the year, but the goal that controls their effort is typically a daily target of earnings. Of course, the daily goal is much easier to achieve (and exceed) on some days than on others. On rainy days, a New York cab never remains free for long, and the driver quickly achieves his target; not so in pleasant weather, when cabs often waste time cruising the streets looking for fares. Economic logic implies that cabdrivers should work many hours on rainy days and treat themselves to some leisure on mild days, when they can "buy' leisure at a lower price. The logic of loss aversion suggests the opposite: drivers who have a fixed daily target will work many more hours when the pickings are slim and go home early when rain-drenched customers are begging to be taken somewhere." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Intuitive predictions need to be corrected because they are not regressive and therefore are biased." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The illusion that one has understood the past feeds the further illusion that one can predict and control the future. These illusions are comforting. They reduce the anxiety that we would experience if we allowed ourselves to fully acknowledge the uncertainties of existence." -Daniel Kahneman 
"So this is my aim for watercooler conversations: improve the ability to identify and understand errors of judgment and choice, in others and eventually in ourselves, by providing a richer and more precise language to discuss them. In at least some cases, an accurate diagnosis may suggest an intervention to limit the damage that bad judgments and choices often cause." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The experiments showed further that the mean filial regression towards mediocrity was directly proportional to the parental deviation from it." -Daniel Kahneman 
"O fato central de nossa existência é que o tempo é o recurso finito supremo, mas o eu recordativo ignora essa realidade." -Daniel Kahneman 
"In the context of attitudes, however, System 2 is more of an apologist for the emotions of System 1 than a critic of those emotions--an endorser rather than an enforcer. Its search for information and arguments is mostly constrained to information that is consistent with existing beliefs, not with an intention to examine them. An active, coherence-seeking System 1 suggests solutions to an undemanding System 2." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Lo mejor que podemos hacer es llegar a un compromiso: aprender a reconocer situaciones en las que los errores sean probables y esforzarnos en evitar errores importantes cuando están en juego cosas de primer orden. La premisa de este libro es que es más fácil reconocer los errores de otros que los nuestros." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The deeper truth is that there is nothing to explain." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The suppression of doubt contributes to overconfidence in a group where only supporters of the decision have a voice." -Daniel Kahneman 
"I tend to view the occasional failures of algorithms as opportunities to improve them. On the other hand, I find more pleasure than Klein does in the come-uppance of arrogant experts who claim intuitive powers in zero-validity situations." -Daniel Kahneman 
"...flow - a state that some artists experience in their creative moments and that many other people achieve when enthralled by a film, a book, or a crossword puzzle; interruptions are not welcome in any of these situations." -Daniel Kahneman 
"controlling thoughts and behaviors is one of the tasks that System 2 performs." -Daniel Kahneman 
"A story is about significant events and memorable moments, not about time passing." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The first lesson is that errors of prediction are inevitable because the world is unpredictable. The second is that high subjective confidence is not to be trusted as an indicator of accuracy (low confidence could be more informative)." -Daniel Kahneman 
"I spend a few months each year in Berkeley, and one of my great pleasures there is a daily four-mile walk on a marked path in the hills, with a fine view of San Francisco Bay." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The often-used phrase "pay attention' is apt: you dispose of a limited budget of attention that you can allocate to activities, and if you try to go beyond your budget, you will fail. It is the mark of effortful activities that they interfere with each other, which is why it is difficult or impossible to conduct several at once. You could not compute the product of 17 × 24 while making a left turn into dense traffic, and you certainly should not try. You can do several things at once, but only if they are easy and undemanding." -Daniel Kahneman 
"System 1 is gullible and biased to believe, System 2 is in charge of doubting and unbelieving, but System 2 is sometimes busy, and often lazy." -Daniel Kahneman 
"A aquisição de habilidades exige um ambiente regular, uma oportunidade adequada para praticar e um feedback rápido e inequívoco sobre a precisão dos pensamentos e ações." -Daniel Kahneman 
"all variants of voluntary effort--cognitive, emotional, or physical--draw at least partly on a shared pool of mental energy." -Daniel Kahneman 
"This embarrassing episode remains one of the most instructive experiences of my professional life. I eventually learned three lessons from it. The first was immediately apparent: I had stumbled onto a distinction between two profoundly different approaches to forecasting, which Amos and I later labeled the inside view and the outside view. The second lesson was that our initial forecasts of about two years for the completion of the project exhibited a planning fallacy. Our estimates were closer to a best-case scenario than to a realistic assessment. I was slower to accept the third lesson, which I call irrational perseverance: the folly we displayed that day in failing to abandon the project. Facing a choice, we gave up rationality rather than give up the enterprise." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Remarkably, altruistic punishment is accompanied by increased activity in the "pleasure centers' of the brain. It appears that maintaining the social order and the rules of fairness in this fashion is its own reward. Altruistic punishment could well be the glue that holds societies together. However, our brains are not designed to reward generosity as reliably as they punish meanness. Here again, we find a marked asymmetry between losses and gains." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Richer and more realistic assumptions do not suffice to make a theory successful. Scientists" -Daniel Kahneman 
"the proper way to elicit information from a group is not by starting with a public discussion but by confidentially collecting each person's judgment" -Daniel Kahneman 
"But we should not expect performance in officer training and in combat to be predictable from behavior on an obstacle field--behavior both on the test and in the real world is determined by many factors that are specific to the particular situation. Remove" -Daniel Kahneman 
"people are first depleted by a task in which they eat virtuous foods such as radishes and celery while resisting the temptation to indulge in chocolate and rich cookies. Later, these people will give up earlier than normal when faced with a difficult cognitive task." -Daniel Kahneman 
"When the driver of a car is overtaking a truck on a narrow road, for example, adult passengers quite sensibly stop talking." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The wide confidence interval is a confession of ignorance, which is not socially acceptable for someone who is paid to be knowledgeable in financial matters. Even if they knew how little they know, the executives would be penalized for admitting it. President Truman famously asked for a "one-armed economist' who would take a clear stand; he was sick and tired of economists who kept saying, "On the other hand…" -Daniel Kahneman 
"couching familiar ideas in pretentious language is taken as a sign of poor intelligence and low credibility." -Daniel Kahneman 
"A reliable way to make people believe in falsehoods is frequent repetition, because familiarity is not easily distinguished from truth. Authoritarian institutions and marketers have always known this fact. But it was psychologists who discovered that you do not have to repeat the entire statement of a fact or idea to make it appear true. People who were repeatedly exposed to the phrase "the body temperature of a chicken' were more likely to accept as true the statement that "the body temperature of a chicken is 144°" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Fast thinking includes both variants of intuitive thought--the expert and the heuristic" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The third principle is loss aversion. When directly compared or weighted against each other, losses loom larger than gains. This asymmetry between the power of positive and negative expectations or experiences has an evolutionary history. Organisms that treat threats as more urgent than opportunities have a better chance to survive and reproduce." -Daniel Kahneman 
"In several experiments, people were able to resist the effects of ego depletion when given a strong incentive to do so. In contrast, increasing effort is not an option when you must keep six digits in short-term memory while performing a task. Ego depletion" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The halo effect and outcome bias combine to explain the extraordinary appeal of books that seek to draw operational morals from systematic examination of successful businesses." -Daniel Kahneman 
"I have heard of too many people who "knew well before it happened that the 2008 financial crisis was inevitable.' This sentence contains a highly objectionable word, which should be removed from our vocabulary in discussions of major events. The word is, of course, knew. Some people thought well in advance that there would be a crisis, but they did not know it. They now say they knew it because the crisis did in fact happen. This is a misuse of an important concept. In everyday language, we apply the word know only when what was known is true and can be shown to be true. We can know something only if it is both true and knowable. But the people who thought there would be a crisis (and there are fewer of them than now remember thinking it) could not conclusively show it at the time. Many intelligent and well-informed people were keenly interested in the future of the economy and did not believe a catastrophe was imminent; I infer from this fact that the crisis was not knowable. What is perverse about the use of know in this context is not that some individuals get credit for prescience that they do not deserve. It is that the language implies that the world is more knowable than it is. It helps perpetuate a pernicious illusion." -Daniel Kahneman 
"You will from time to time meet a patient who shares a disturbing tale of multiple mistakes in his previous treatment. He has been seen by several clinicians, and all failed him. The patient can lucidly describe how his therapists misunderstood him, but he has quickly perceived that you are different. You share the same feeling, are convinced that you understand him, and will be able to help.' At this point my teacher raised his voice as he said, "Do not even think of taking on this patient! Throw him out of the office! He is most likely a psychopath and you will not be able to help him." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Imagine that we are a year into the future. We implemented the plan as it now exists. The outcome was a disaster. Please take 5 to 10 minutes to write a brief history of that disaster." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The" -Daniel Kahneman 
"many people are overconfident, prone to place too much faith in their intuitions" -Daniel Kahneman 
"When you pay attention to a threat, you worry--and the decision weights reflect how much you worry. Because of the possibility effect, the worry is not proportional to the probability of the threat. Reducing or mitigating the risk is not adequate; to eliminate the worry the probability must be broughtdown to zero." -Daniel Kahneman 
"It appears to be a feature of System 1 that cognitive ease is associated with good feelings." -Daniel Kahneman 
"These findings add to the growing evidence that good mood, intuition, creativity, gullibility, and increased reliance on System 1 form a cluster." -Daniel Kahneman 
"This complex constellation of responses occurred quickly, automatically, and effortlessly. You did not will it and you could not stop it. It was an operation of System 1. The events that took place as a result of your seeing the words happened by a process called associative activation: ideas that have been evoked trigger many other ideas, in a spreading cascade of activity in your brain. The essential feature of this complex set of mental events is its coherence. Each element is connected, and each supports and strengthens the others. The word evokes memories, which evoke emotions, which in turn evoke facial expressions and other reactions, such as a general tensing up and an avoidance tendency. The facial expression and the avoidance motion intensify the feelings to which they are linked, and the feelings in turn reinforce compatible ideas. All this happens quickly and all at once, yielding a self-reinforcing pattern of cognitive, emotional, and physical responses that is both diverse and integrated--it has been called associatively coherent." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Charge the loss to your mental account of 'general revenue'--you will feel better!" -Daniel Kahneman 
"results are shocking. More than 50% of students at Harvard, MIT, and Princeton gave the intuitive--incorrect--answer." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Why call them System 1 and System 2 rather than the more descriptive "automatic system' and "effortful system'? The reason is simple: "Automatic system' takes longer to say than "System 1' and therefore takes more space in your working memory. This matters, because anything that occupies your working memory reduces your ability to think." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The bat-and-ball problem is our first encounter with an observation that will be a recurrent theme of this book: many people are overconfident, prone to place too much faith in their intuitions. They apparently find cognitive effort at least mildly unpleasant and avoid it as much as possible." -Daniel Kahneman 
"it's clear now that there are three cognitive features at the heart of prospect theory. They play an essential role in the evaluation of financial outcomes and are common to many automatic processes of perception, judgment, and emotion. They should be seen as operating characteristics of System 1." -Daniel Kahneman 
"To derive the most useful information from multiple sources of evidence, you should always try to make these sources independent of each other. This rule is part of good police procedure. When there are multiple witnesses to an event, they are not allowed to discuss it before giving their testimony. The goal is not only to prevent collusion by hostile witnesses, it is also to prevent unbiased witnesses from influencing each other. Witnesses who exchange their experiences will tend to make similar errors in their testimony, reducing the total value of the information they provide. Eliminating redundancy from your sources of information is always a good idea. The principle of independent judgments (and decorrelated errors) has immediate applications for the conduct of meetings, an activity in which executives in organizations spend a great deal of their working days. A simple rule can help: before an issue is discussed, all members of the committee should be asked to write a very brief summary of their position. This procedure makes good use of the value of the diversity of knowledge and opinion in the group. The standard practice of open discussion gives too much weight to the opinions of those who speak early and assertively, causing others to line up behind them." -Daniel Kahneman 
"focusing on a task can make people effectively blind, even to stimuli that normally attract attention. The most dramatic demonstration was offered by Christopher Chabris and Daniel Simons in their book The Invisible Gorilla. They constructed a short film of two teams passing basketballs, one team wearing white shirts, the other wearing black. The viewers of the film are instructed to count the number of passes made by the white team, ignoring the black players. This task is difficult and completely absorbing. Halfway through the video, a woman wearing a gorilla suit appears, crosses the court, thumps her chest, and moves on. The gorilla is in view for 9 seconds. Many thousands of people have seen the video, and about half of them do not notice anything unusual. It is the counting task--and especially the instruction to ignore one of the teams--that causes the blindness. No one who watches the video without that task would miss the gorilla. Seeing and orienting are automatic functions of System 1, but they depend on the allocation of some attention to the relevant stimulus. The authors note that the most remarkable observation of their study is that people find its results very surprising. Indeed, the viewers who fail to see the gorilla are initially sure" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Evaluation on the GOOD–BAD dimension is an automatic operation of System 1," -Daniel Kahneman 
"If subjective confidence is not to be trusted, how can we evaluate the probable validity of an intuitive judgment? When do judgments reflect true expertise? When do they display an illusion of validity? The answer comes from the two basic conditions for acquiring a skill: an environment that is sufficiently regular to be predictable an opportunity to learn these regularities through prolonged practice When both these conditions are satisfied, intuitions are likely to be skilled. Chess is an extreme example of a regular environment, but bridge and poker also provide robust statistical regularities that can support skill. Physicians, nurses, athletes, and firefighters also face complex but fundamentally orderly situations. The accurate intuitions that Gary Klein has described are due to highly valid cues that the expert's System 1 has learned to use, even if System 2 has not learned to name them. In contrast, stock pickers and political scientists who make long-term forecasts operate in a zero-validity environment. Their failures reflect the basic unpredictability of the events that they try to forecast." -Daniel Kahneman 
"optimism is highly valued, socially and in the market; people and firms reward the providers of dangerously misleading information more than they reward truth tellers. One" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Many parents have discovered, perhaps with some guilt, that they can read a story to a child while thinking of something else." -Daniel Kahneman 
"there are periods in which competition, among experts and among organizations, creates powerful forces that favor a collective blindness to risk and uncertainty." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Nick Epley and Tom Gilovich found evidence that adjustment is a deliberate attempt to find reasons to move away from the anchor:" -Daniel Kahneman 
"We pay more attention to the content of messages than to information about their reliabillity, and as a result end up with a view of the world around us that is simpler and more coherent than the data justify. Jumping to conclusions is a safer sport in the world of our imagination than it is in reality." -Daniel Kahneman 
"For some of our most important beliefs we have no evidence at all, except that people we love and trust hold these beliefs. Considering" -Daniel Kahneman 
"A recurrent theme of this book is that luck plays a large role in every story of success; it is almost always easy to identify a small change in the story that would have turned a remarkable achievement into a mediocre outcome. Our" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Because of the halo effect, we get the causal relationship backward: we are prone to believe that the firm fails because its CEO is rigid, when the truth is that the CEO appears to be rigid because the firm is failing. This is how illusions of understanding are born." -Daniel Kahneman 
"People adjust less (stay closer to the anchor) when their mental resources are depleted, either because their memory is loaded with digits or because they are slightly drunk." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Examples of the planning fallacy abound in the experiences of individuals, governments, and businesses. The list of horror stories is endless." -Daniel Kahneman 
"One of the main functions of System 2 is to monitor and control thoughts and actions "suggested' by System 1," -Daniel Kahneman 
"true experts know the limits of their knowledge." -Daniel Kahneman 
"your subjective experience consists largely of the story that your System 2 tells itself about what is going on." -Daniel Kahneman 
"students can solve much more difficult problems when they are not tempted to accept a superficially plausible answer that comes readily to mind. The ease with which they are satisfied enough to stop thinking is rather troubling." -Daniel Kahneman 
"our mind is strongly biased toward causal explanations and does not deal well with "mere statistics." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Starting from a completely unexpected event, your System 1 made as much sense as possible of the situation--two simple words, oddly juxtaposed--by linking the words in a causal story; it evaluated the possible threat (mild to moderate) and created a context for future developments by preparing you for events that had just become more likely; it also created a context for the current event by evaluating how surprising it was. You ended up as informed about the past and as prepared for the future as you could be." -Daniel Kahneman 
"spend" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Anything that makes it easier for the associative machine to run smoothly will also bias beliefs. A reliable way to make people believe in falsehoods is frequent repetition, because familiarity is not easily distinguished from truth. Authoritarian institutions and marketers have always known this fact." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Optimists Optimism is normal, but some fortunate people are more optimistic than the rest of us. If you are genetically endowed with an optimistic bias, you hardly need to be told that you are a lucky person--you already feel fortunate. An optimistic attitude is largely inherited, and it is part of a general disposition for well-being, which may also include a preference for seeing the bright side of everything. If you were allowed one wish for your child, seriously consider wishing him or her optimism. Optimists are normally cheerful and happy, and therefore popular; they are resilient in adapting to failures and hardships, their chances of clinical depression are reduced, their immune system is stronger, they take better care of their health, they feel healthier than others and are in fact likely to live longer. A study of people who exaggerate their expected life span beyond actuarial predictions showed that they work longer hours, are more optimistic about their future income, are more likely to remarry after divorce (the classic "triumph of hope over experience'), and are more prone to bet on individual stocks. Of course, the blessings of optimism are offered only to individuals who are only mildly biased and who are able to "accentuate the positive' without losing track of reality. Optimistic individuals play a disproportionate role in shaping our lives. Their decisions make a difference; they are the inventors, the entrepreneurs, the political and military leaders--not average people. They got to where they are by seeking challenges and taking risks. They are talented and they have been lucky, almost certainly luckier than they acknowledge. They are probably optimistic by temperament; a survey of founders of small businesses concluded that entrepreneurs are more sanguine than midlevel managers about life in general. Their experiences of success have confirmed their faith in their judgment and in their ability to control events. Their self-confidence is reinforced by the admiration of others. This reasoning leads to a hypothesis: the people who have the greatest influence on the lives of others are likely to be optimistic and overconfident, and to take more risks than they realize." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The principle of independent judgments (and decorrelated errors) has immediate applications for the conduct of meetings, an activity in which executives in organizations spend a great deal of their working days. A simple rule can help: before an issue is discussed, all members of the committee should be asked to write a very brief summary of their position." -Daniel Kahneman 
"How closely does System 2 monitor the suggestions of System 1? His reasoning was that we know a significant fact about anyone who says that the ball costs 10¢: that person did not actively check whether the answer was correct, and her System 2 endorsed an intuitive answer that it could have rejected with a small investment of effort." -Daniel Kahneman 
"A deeper understanding of judgments and choices also requires a richer vocabulary than is available in everyday language. The hope" -Daniel Kahneman 
"However, the magic of error reduction works well only when the observations are independent and their errors uncorrelated. If the observers share a bias, the aggregation of judgments will not reduce it. Allowing the observers to influence each other effectively reduces the size of the sample, and with it the precision of the group estimate." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Especially when the original critique is sharply worded, the reply and the rejoinder are often exercises in what I have called sarcasm for beginners and advanced sarcasm." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Even statisticians were not good intuitive statisticians." -Daniel Kahneman 
"More than 50% of students at Harvard, MIT, and Princeton gave the intuitive--incorrect--answer." -Daniel Kahneman 
"She is a hedgehog. She has a theory that explains everything, and it gives her the illusion that she understands the world." -Daniel Kahneman 
"living in a culture that surrounds us with reminders of money may shape our behavior and our attitudes in ways that we do not know about" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The only test of rationality is not whether a person's beliefs and preferences are reasonable, but whether they are internally consistent." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The various causes of ease or strain have interchangeable effects. When you are in a state of cognitive ease, you are probably in a good mood, like what you see, believe what you hear, trust your intuitions, and feel that the current situation is comfortably familiar. You are also likely to be relatively casual and superficial in your thinking. When you feel strained, you are more likely to be vigilant and suspicious, invest more effort in what you are doing, feel less comfortable, and make fewer errors, but you also are less intuitive and less creative than usual." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Those who avoid the sin of intellectual sloth could be called "engaged." -Daniel Kahneman 
"They didn't want more information that might spoil their story. WYSIATI." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Indeed, the mere exposure effect is actually stronger for stimuli that the individual never consciously sees" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The bat-and-ball problem is our first encounter with an observation that will be a recurrent theme of this book: many people are overconfident, prone to place too much faith in their intuitions." -Daniel Kahneman 
"We are pattern seekers, believers in a coherent world, in which regularities (such as a sequence of six girls) appear not by accident but as a result of mechanical causality or of someone's intention." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Nisbett and Borgida summarize the results in a memorable sentence: Subjects' unwillingness to deduce the particular from the general was matched only by their willingness to infer the general from the particular." -Daniel Kahneman 
"reliable way to make people believe in falsehoods is frequent repetition, because familiarity is not easily distinguished from truth." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The media do not just shape what the public is interested in, but also are shaped by it." -Daniel Kahneman 
"La inteligencia no es solo la capacidad de razonar; es también la capacidad de encontrar material relevante en la memoria y enfocar la atención cuando se necesita." -Daniel Kahneman 
"All roses are flowers. Some flowers fade quickly. Therefore some roses fade quickly. A large majority of college students endorse this syllogism as valid. In fact the argument is flawed, because it is possible that there are no roses among the flowers that fade quickly." -Daniel Kahneman 
"It is often the case that when you broaden the frame, you reach more reasonable decisions." -Daniel Kahneman 
"people believe a conclusion is true, they are also very likely to believe arguments that appear to support it, even when these arguments are unsound." -Daniel Kahneman 
"During the intensive rocket bombing of London in World War II, it was generally believed that the bombing could not be random because a map of the hits revealed conspicuous gaps. Some suspected that German spies were located in the unharmed areas. A careful statistical analysis revealed that the distribution of hits was typical of a random process--and typical as well in evoking a strong impression that it was not random. "To the untrained eye,' Feller remarks, "randomness appears as regularity or tendency to cluster." -Daniel Kahneman 
"«La situación proporciona la ocasión; esta da al experto acceso a información almacenada en la memoria, y la información da la respuesta. La intuición no es ni más ni menos que el reconocimiento»." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Your moral feelings are attached to frames, to descriptions of reality rather than to reality itself. The message about the nature of framing is stark: framing should not be viewed as an intervention that masks or distorts an underlying preference. At least in this instance--and also in the problems of the Asian disease and of surgery versus radiation for lung cancer--there is no underlying preference that is masked or distorted by the frame. Our preferences are about framed problems, and our moral intuitions are about descriptions, not about substance." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Gilbert proposed that understanding a statement must begin with an attempt to believe it: you must first know what the idea would mean if it were true. Only then can you decide whether or not to unbelieve it. The initial attempt to believe is an automatic operation of System 1, which involves the construction of the best possible interpretation of the situation. Even a nonsensical statement, Gilbert argues, will evoke initial belief. Try his example: "whitefish eat candy.' You probably were aware of vague impressions of fish and candy as an automatic process of associative memory searched for links between the two ideas that would make sense of the nonsense. Gilbert sees unbelieving as an operation of System 2, and he reported an elegant experiment to make his point. The participants saw nonsensical assertions, such as "a dinca is a flame,' followed after a few seconds by a single word, "true' or "false.' They were later tested for their memory of which sentences had been labeled "true.' In one condition of the experiment subjects were required to hold digits in memory during the task. The disruption of System 2 had a selective effect: it made it difficult for people to "unbelieve' false sentences. In a later test of memory, the depleted participants ended up thinking that many of the false sentences were true." -Daniel Kahneman 
"but statistics requires thinking about many things at once, which is something that System 1 is not designed to do." -Daniel Kahneman 
"as the psychologist Jonathan Haidt said in another context, "The emotional tail wags the rational dog." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Overconfidence is another manifestation of WYSIATI: when we estimate a quantity, we rely on information that comes to mind and construct a coherent story in which the estimate makes sense. Allowing for the information that does not come to mind--perhaps because one never knew it--is impossible." -Daniel Kahneman 
"the line between what clinicians can do well and what they cannot do at all well is not obvious, and certainly not obvious to them." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Earlier I traced people's confidence in a belief to two related impressions: cognitive ease and coherence. We are confident when the story we tell ourselves comes easily to mind, with no contradiction and no competing scenario. But ease and coherence do not guarantee that a belief held with confidence is true." -Daniel Kahneman 
"How are things going? Is there a threat or a major opportunity? Is everything normal? Should I approach or avoid? The questions are perhaps less urgent for a human in a city environment than for a gazelle on the savannah, but we have inherited the neural mechanisms that evolved to provide ongoing assessments of threat level, and they have not been turned off. Situations are constantly evaluated as good or bad, requiring escape or permitting approach. Good mood and cognitive ease are the human equivalents of assessments of safety and familiarity." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The illusion of skill is not only an individual aberration; it is deeply ingrained in the culture of the industry. Facts that challenge such basic assumptions--and thereby threaten people's livelihood and self-esteem--are simply not absorbed. The mind does not digest them." -Daniel Kahneman 
"It is useful to remember, however, that neglecting valid stereotypes inevitably results in suboptimal judgments. Resistance to stereotyping is a laudable moral position, but the simplistic idea that the resistance is costles is wrong. The costs are worth paying to achieve a better society, but denying that the costs exist, while satisfying to the soul and politically correct, is no scientifically defensible." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Of course, we and our animal cousins are quickly alerted to signs of opportunities to mate or to feed, and advertisers design billboards accordingly." -Daniel Kahneman 
"the mystery of knowing without knowing is not a distinctive feature of intuition; it is the norm of mental life." -Daniel Kahneman 
"System 2 is sometimes busy, and often lazy. Indeed, there is evidence that people are more likely to be influenced by empty persuasive messages, such as commercials, when they are tired and depleted." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The only difference between the two groups was that the students conceded that they were influenced by the anchor, while the professionals denied that influence." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Many facts of the world are due to chance, including accidents of sampling. Causal explanations of chance events are inevitably wrong." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Acquiring expertise in chess is harder and slower than learning to read because there are many more letters in the "alphabet' of chess and because the "words' consist of many letters. After thousands of hours of practice, however, chess masters are able to read a chess situation at a glance." -Daniel Kahneman 
"If you care about being thought credible and intelligent, do not use complex language where simpler language will do. My" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The word fallacy is used, in general, when people fail to apply a logical rule that is obviously relevant." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The main function of System 1 is to maintain and update a model of your personal world, which represents what is normal in it. The model is constructed by associations that link ideas of circumstances, events, actions, and outcomes that co-occur with some regularity, either at the same time or within a relatively short interval." -Daniel Kahneman 
"In July 1997, the proposed new Scottish Parliament building in Edinburgh was estimated to cost up to £40 million. By June 1999, the budget for the building was £109 million. In April 2000, legislators imposed a £195 million "cap on costs.' By November 2001, they demanded an estimate of "final cost,' which was set at £241 million. That estimated final cost rose twice in 2002, ending the year at £294.6 million. It rose three times more in 2003, reaching £375.8 million by June. The building was finally completed in 2004 at an ultimate cost of roughly £431 million." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The errors of a theory are rarely found in what it asserts explicitly; they hide in what it ignores or tacitly assumes." -Daniel Kahneman 
"el esfuerzo de la voluntad o autocontrol es fatigoso; si hemos de forzarnos a hacer algo, estamos menos dispuestos, o somos menos capaces, de ejercer el autocontrol si el próximo reto está cerca. El fenómeno se ha denominado agotamiento del ego." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The psychologist Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi (pronounced six-cent-mihaly) has done" -Daniel Kahneman 
"there are many pseudo-experts who have no idea that they do not know what they are doing (the illusion of validity), and that as a general proposition subjective confidence is commonly too high and often uninformative." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The wide confidence interval is a confession of ignorance, which is not socially acceptable for someone who is paid to be knowledgeable in financial matters. Even if they knew how little they know, the executives would be penalized for admitting it." -Daniel Kahneman 
"When experts and the public disagree on their priorities, he says, "Each side must respect the insights and intelligence of the other." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The premortem has two main advantages: it overcomes the groupthink that affects many teams once a decision appears to have been made, and it unleashes the imagination of knowledgeable individuals in a much-needed direction." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Systems 1 and 2 are both active whenever we are awake. System 1 runs automatically and System 2 is normally in a comfortable low-effort mode, in which only a fraction of its capacity is engaged. System 1 continuously generates suggestions for System 2: impressions, intuitions, intentions, and feelings. If endorsed by System 2, impressions and intuitions turn into beliefs, and impulses turn into voluntary actions. When all goes smoothly, which is most of the time, System 2 adopts the suggestions of System 1 with little or no modification. You generally believe your impressions and act on your desires, and that is fine--usually. When System 1 runs into difficulty, it calls on System 2 to support more detailed and specific processing that may solve the problem of the moment. System 2 is mobilized when a question arises for which System 1 does not offer an answer. [S]ystem 2 is activated when an event is detected that violates the model of the world that System 1 maintains." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Organizations that take the word of overconfident experts can expect costly consequences." -Daniel Kahneman 
"an organization is a factory that manufactures judgments and decisions. Every factory must have ways to ensure the quality of its products in the initial design, in fabrication, and in final inspections. The corresponding stages in the production of decisions are the framing of the problem that is to be solved, the collection of relevant information leading to a decision, and reflection and review. An organization that seeks to improve its decision product should routinely look for efficiency improvements at each of these stages. The" -Daniel Kahneman 
"His observation was astute and correct: occasions on which he praised a performance were likely to be followed by a disappointing performance, and punishments were typically followed by an improvement. But the inference he had drawn about the efficacy of reward and punishment was completely off the mark." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The lesson of figure 5 is that predictable illusions inevitably occur if a judgment is based on an impression of cognitive ease or strain. Anything that makes it easier for the associative machine to run smoothly will also bias beliefs. A reliable way to make people believe in falsehoods is frequent repetition, because familiarity is not easily distinguished from truth. Authoritarian institutions and marketers have always known this fact." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The general theme of these findings is that the idea of money primes individualism: a reluctance to be involved with others, to depend on others, or to accept demands from others. The psychologist who has done this remarkable research, Kathleen Vohs, has been laudably restrained in discussing the implications of her findings, leaving the task to her readers. Her experiments are profound--her findings suggest that living in a culture that surrounds us with reminders of money may shape our behavior and our attitudes in ways that we do not know about and of which we may not be proud." -Daniel Kahneman 
"As Nassim Taleb has argued, inadequate appreciation of the uncertainty of the environment inevitably leads economic agents to take risks they should avoid. However, optimism is highly valued, socially and in the market; people and firms reward the providers of dangerously misleading information more than they reward truth tellers." -Daniel Kahneman 
"two basic conditions for acquiring a skill: an environment that is sufficiently regular to be predictable an opportunity to learn these regularities through prolonged practice" -Daniel Kahneman 
"If you visit a courtroom you will observe that lawyers apply two styles of criticism: to demolish a case they raise doubts about the strongest arguments that favor it; to discredit a witness, they focus on the weakest part of the testimony" -Daniel Kahneman 
"traffic deaths." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The pleasure we found in working together made us exceptionally patient; it is much easier to strive for perfection when you are never bored." -Daniel Kahneman 
"a puzzling limitation of our mind: our excessive confidence in what we believe we know, and our apparent inability to acknowledge the full extent of our ignorance and the uncertainty of the world we live in. We are prone to overestimate how much we understand about the world and to underestimate the role of chance in events. Overconfidence is fed by the illusory certainty of hindsight." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Overconfidence is fed by the illusory certainty of hindsigh" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The associative machine is set to suppress doubt and to evoke ideas and information that are compatible with the currently dominant story. A mind that follows WYSIATI will achieve high confidence much too easily by ignoring what it does not know. It is therefore not surprising that many of us are prone to have high confidence in unfounded intuitions." -Daniel Kahneman 
"puzzling limitation of our mind: our excessive confidence in what we believe we know, and our apparent inability to acknowledge the full extent of our ignorance and the uncertainty of the world we live in. We" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The 'Instagram Generation' now experiences the present as an anticipated memory." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Nothing in life is quite as important as you think it is while you are thinking about it." -Daniel Kahneman 
"when people believe a conclusion is true, they are also very likely to believe arguments that appear to support it," -Daniel Kahneman 
"This start-up looks as if it could not fail, but the base rate of success in the industry is extremely low. How do we know this case is different?" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The sequence in which we observe characteristics of a person is often determined by chance. Sequence matters, however, because the halo effect increases the weight of first impressions, sometimes to the point that subsequent information is mostly wasted." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The naturalist Stephen Jay Gould described his own struggle with the Linda problem. He knew the correct answer, of course, and yet, he wrote, "a little homunculus in my head continues to jump up and down, shouting at me--'but she can't just be a bank teller; read the description.'' The little homunculus is of course Gould's System 1 speaking to him in insistent tones. (The two-system terminology had not yet been introduced when he wrote.) The correct answer to the short version of the Linda problem was the majority response in only one of our studies: 64% of a group of graduate students in the social sciences at Stanford and at Berkeley correctly judged "feminist bank teller' to be less probable" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The prominence of causal intuitions is a recurrent theme in this book because people are prone to apply causal thinking inappropriately, to situations that require statistical reasoning. Statistical thinking derives conclusions about individual cases from properties of categories and ensembles. Unfortunately, System 1 does not have the capability for this mode of reasoning; System 2 can learn to think statistically, but few people receive the necessary training." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Human beings have invented the concept of "risk' to help them understand and cope with the dangers and uncertainties of life. Although these dangers are real, there is no such thing as "real risk' or "objective risk." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The example also shows that it is costly to be risk averse for gains and risk seeking for losses. These attitudes make you willing to pay a premium to obtain a sure gain rather than face a gamble, and also willing to pay a premium (in expected value) to avoid a sure loss." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Because of the coincidence of two planes crashing last month, she now prefers to take the train. That's silly. The risk hasn't really changed; it is an availability bias." -Daniel Kahneman 
"If you wish to experience your System 2 working at full tilt, the following exercise will do; it should bring you to the limits of your cognitive abilities within 5 seconds. To start, make up several strings of 4 digits, all different, and write each string on an index card." -Daniel Kahneman 
"System 1 operates automatically and quickly, with little or no effort and no sense of voluntary control. System 2 allocates attention to the effortful mental activities that demand it, including complex computations. The operations of System 2 are often associated with the subjective experience of agency, choice, and concentration." -Daniel Kahneman 
"individuals feel relieved of responsibility when they know that others have heard the same request for help." -Daniel Kahneman 
"A random event, by definition, does not lend itself to explanation, but collections of random events do behave in a highly regular fashion. Imagine a large urn filled with marbles. Half the marbles are red, half are white. Next, imagine a very patient person (or a robot) who blindly draws 4 marbles from the urn, records the number of red balls in the sample, throws the balls back into the urn, and then does it all again, many times. If you summarize the results, you will find that the outcome "2 red, 2 white' occurs (almost exactly) 6 times as often as the outcome "4 red' or "4 white.' This relationship is a mathematical fact." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Recognize the signs that you are in a cognitive minefield, slow down, and ask for reinforcement of system 2." -Daniel Kahneman 
"your beliefs should be constrained by the logic of probability." -Daniel Kahneman 
"We can be blind to the obvious and we are also blind to our blindness" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Money-primed people become more independent than they would be without the associative trigger. They persevered almost twice as long in trying to solve a very difficult problem before they asked the experimenter for help, a crisp demonstration of increased self-reliance. Money-primed people are also more selfish: they were much less willing to spend time helping another student who pretended to be confused about an experimental task." -Daniel Kahneman 
"I quoted Herbert Simon's definition of intuition in the introduction, but it will make more sense when I repeat it now: "The situation has provided a cue; this cue has given the expert access to information stored in memory, and the information provides the answer. Intuition is nothing more and nothing less than recognition." -Daniel Kahneman 
"System 1 has more influence on behavior when System 2 is busy," -Daniel Kahneman 
"How many murders occur in the state of Michigan in one year? The question, which was also devised by Shane Frederick, is again a challenge to System 2. The "trick' is whether the respondent will remember that Detroit, a high-crime city, is in Michigan." -Daniel Kahneman 
"You have now been introduced to that stranger in you, which may be in control of much of what you do, although you rarely have a glimpse of it." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Asked whether they would rather eat an organic or a commercially grown apple, most people prefer the "all natural' one. Even after being informed that the two apples taste the same, have identical nutritional value, and are equally healthful, a majority still prefer the organic fruit. Even the producers of beer have found that they can increase sales by putting "All Natural' or "No Preservatives' on the label." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Amos was more conservative than I was about hunches, and he cor- rectly pointed out that appealing to suggestion did not help us understand anchoring, because we did not know how to explain suggestion." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Nature has placed mankind under the governance of two sovereign masters, pain and pleasure. It is for them alone to point out what we ought to do, as well as to determine what we shall do." -Daniel Kahneman 
"In the absence of valid cues, intuitive "hits' are due either to luck or to lies. If you find this conclusion surprising, you still have a lingering belief that intuition is magic. Remember this rule: intuition cannot be trusted in the absence of stable regularities in the environment." -Daniel Kahneman 
"All too often a company afflicted by sunk costs drives into the blizzard, throwing good money after bad rather than accepting the humiliation of closing the account of a costly failure." -Daniel Kahneman 
"the idea of money primes individualism: a reluctance to be involved with others, to depend on others, or to accept demands from others. The psychologist who has done this remarkable research, Kathleen Vohs, has been laudably restrained in discussing the implications of her findings, leaving the task to her readers. Her experiments are profound--her findings suggest that living in a culture that surrounds us with reminders of money may shape our behavior and our attitudes in ways that we do not know about and of which we may not be proud. Some cultures provide frequent reminders of respect, others constantly remind their members of God, and some societies prime obedience by large images of the Dear Leader." -Daniel Kahneman 
"What you learned about the Müller-Lyer illusion did not change the way you see the lines, but it changed your behavior. You now know that you cannot trust your impression of the length of lines that have fins appended to them, and you also know that in the standard Müller-Lyer display you cannot trust what you see. When asked about the length of the lines, you will report your informed belief, not the illusion that you continue to see." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Little repetition is needed for learning." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The availability heuristic, like other heuristics of judgment, substitutes one question for another: you wish to estimate the size of a category or the frequency of an event, but you report an impression of the ease with which instances come to mind. Substitution of questions inevitably produces systematic errors." -Daniel Kahneman 
"When it comes to rare probabilities, our mind is not designed to get things quite right. For the residents of a planet that may be exposed to events no one has yet experienced, this is not good news." -Daniel Kahneman 
"you dispose of a limited budget of attention that you can allocate to activities, and if you try to go beyond your budget, you will fail." -Daniel Kahneman 
"An impressive series of studies by Thomas Åstebro sheds light on what happens when optimists receive bad news." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Our understanding of cognitive ease and associative coherence locates subjective confidence firmly in System 1." -Daniel Kahneman 
"When you say 'quite clever,' which reference group do you have in mind?" -Daniel Kahneman 
"I soon had an occasion to apply what I had learned from Feller. The Yom Kippur War broke out in 1973, and my only significant contribution to the war effort was to advise high officers in the Israeli Air Force to stop an investigation. The air war initially went quite badly for Israel, because of the unexpectedly good performance of Egyptian ground-to-air missiles. Losses were high, and they appeared to be unevenly distributed. I was told of two squadrons flying from the same base, one of which had lost four planes while the other had lost none. An inquiry was initiated in the hope of learning what it was that the unfortunate squadron was doing wrong. There was no prior reason to believe that one of the squadrons was more effective than the other, and no operational differences were found, but of course the lives of the pilots differed in many random ways, including, as I recall, how often they went home between missions and something about the conduct of debriefings. My advice was that the command should accept that the different outcomes were due to blind luck, and that the interviewing of the pilots should stop. I reasoned that luck was the most likely answer, that a random search for a nonobvious cause was hopeless, and that in the meantime the pilots in the squadron that had sustained losses did not need the extra burden of being made to feel that they and their dead friends were at fault." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The selective activation of compatible memories explains anchoring: the high and the low numbers activate different sets of ideas in memory. The estimates of annual temperature draw on these biased samples of ideas and are therefore biased as well." -Daniel Kahneman 
"We marvel at the story of the firefighter who has a sudden urge to escape a burning house just before it collapses, because the firefighter knows the danger intuitively, "without knowing how he knows.' However, we also do not know how we immediately know that a person we see as we enter a room is our friend Peter." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The unsurprising idea that luck often contributes to success has surprising consequences when we apply it to the first two days of a high-level golf tournament. To keep things simple, assume that on both days the average score of the competitors was at par 72. We focus on a player who did very well on the first day, closing with a score of 66. What can we" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The ideal of logical consistency, as this example shows, is not achievable by our limited mind. Because we are susceptible to WYSIATI and averse to mental effort, we tend to make decisions as problems arise, even when we are specifically instructed to consider them jointly. We have neither the inclination nor the mental resources to enforce consistency on our preferences, and our preferences are not magically set to be coherent, as they are in the rational-agent model." -Daniel Kahneman 
"System 1 operates automatically and quickly, with little or no effort and no sense of voluntary control. System 2 allocates attention to the effortful mental activities that demand it, including complex computations. The operations of System 2 are often associated with the subjective" -Daniel Kahneman 
"skill in evaluating the business prospects of a firm is not sufficient for successful stock trading, where the key question is whether the information about the firm is already incorporated in the price of its stock. Traders apparently lack the skill to answer this crucial question, but they appear to be ignorant of their ignorance." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Experiments have shown that six-month-old infants see the sequence of events as a cause-effect scenario, and they indicate surprise when the sequence is altered. We are evidently ready from birth to have impressions of causality, which do not depend on reasoning about patterns of causation." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Unusual events (such as botulism) attract disproportionate attention and are consequently perceived as less unusual than they really are. The world in our heads is not a precise replica of reality; our expectations about the frequency of events are distorted by the prevalence and emotional intensity of the messages to which we are exposed." -Daniel Kahneman 
"You inability to reconstruct past beliefs will inevitably cause you to underestimate the extent to which you were surprised by past events." -Daniel Kahneman 
"people make judgments and decisions by consulting their emotions: Do I like it? Do I hate it? How strongly do I feel about it? In many domains of life, Slovic said, people form opinions and make choices that directly express their feelings and their basic tendency to approach or avoid, often without knowing that they are doing so." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Words that you have seen before become easier to see again" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Something is still missing from this story: the answers need to be fitted to the original questions." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The concept of loss aversion is certainly the most significant contribution of psychology to behavioral economics" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The thought of accepting the large sure loss is too painful, and the hope of complete relief too enticing, to make the sensible decision that it is time to cut one's losses." -Daniel Kahneman 
"bazaar shoppers who wear dark glasses in order to hide their level of interest from merchants." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Some experimenters have reported that an angry face "pops out' of a crowd of happy faces, but a single happy face does not stand out in an angry crowd. The brains of humans and other animals contain a mechanism that is designed to give priority to bad news." -Daniel Kahneman 
"the children who had shown more self-control as four-year-olds had substantially higher scores on tests of intelligence." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The various causes of ease or strain have interchangeable effects. When you are in a state of cognitive ease, you are probably in a good mood, like what you see, believe what you hear, trust your intuition, and feel that the current situation is comfortably familiar. You are also likely to be relatively casual and superficial in your thinking. When you feel strained, you are more likely to be vigilant and suspicious, invest more effort in what you are doing, feel less comfortable, and make fewer errors, but you also are less intuitive and less creative as usual." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Except for the very poor, for whom income coincides with survival, the main motivators of money-seeking are not necessarily economic. For the billionaire looking for the extra billion, and indeed for the participant in an experimental economics project looking for the extra dollar, money is a proxy for points on a scale of self-regard and achievement. These rewards and punishments, promises and threats, are all in our heads. We carefully keep score of them. They shape our preferences and motivate our actions, like the incentives provided in the social environment. As a result, we refuse to cut losses when doing so would admit failure, we are biased against actions that could lead to regret, and we draw an illusory but sharp distinction between omission and commission, not doing and doing, because the sense of responsibility is greater for one than for the other. The ultimate currency that rewards or punishes is often emotional, a form of mental self-dealing that inevitably creates conflicts of interest when the individual acts as an agent on behalf of an organization." -Daniel Kahneman 
"For the billionaire looking for the extra billion, and indeed for the participant in an experimental economics project looking for the extra dollar, money is a proxy for points on a scale of self-regard and achievement. These rewards and punishments, promises and threats, are all in our heads." -Daniel Kahneman 
"recurrent theme of this book: many people are overconfident, prone to place too much faith in their intuitions." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The emotional tail wags the rational dog.' The affect heuristic simplifies our lives by creating a world that is much tidier than reality." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Too much concern about how well one is doing in a task sometimes disrupts performance by loading short-term memory with pointless anxious thoughts. The conclusion is straightforward: self-control requires attention and effort." -Daniel Kahneman 
"the illusions of validity and skill are supported by a powerful professional culture. We know that people can maintain an unshakable faith in any proposition, however absurd, when they are sustained by a community of like-minded believers." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Un modo sicuro di indurre la gente a credere a cose false è la frequente ripetizione, perché la familiarità non si distingue facilmente dalla verità." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Does the actual experience count for nothing? Confusing experience with the memory of it is a compelling cognitive illusion--and it is the substitution that makes us believe a past experience can be ruined. The experiencing self does not have a voice. The remembering self is sometimes wrong, but it is the one that keeps score and governs what we learn from living, and it is the one that makes decisions. What we learn from the past is to maximize the qualities of our future memories, not necessarily of our future experience. This is the tyranny of the remembering self." -Daniel Kahneman 
"His observation was astute and correct: occasions on which he praised a performance were likely to be followed by a disappointing performance, and punishments were typically followed by an improvement. But the inference he had drawn about the efficacy of reward and punishment was completely off the mark. What he had observed is known as regression to the mean, which in that case was due to random fluctuations in the quality of performance." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The photographer does not view the scene as a moment to be savored but as a future memory to be designed. Pictures" -Daniel Kahneman 
"training attention not only improved executive control; scores on nonverbal tests of intelligence also improved and the improvement was maintained for several months." -Daniel Kahneman 
"SPEAKING OF SYSTEM 1 AND SYSTEM 2 "He had an impression, but some of his impressions are illusions.' "This was a pure System 1 response. She reacted to the threat before she recognized it.' "This is your System 1 talking. Slow down and let your System 2 take control." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The combination of probability neglect with the social mechanisms of availability cascades inevitably leads to gross exaggeration of minor threats, sometimes with important consequences." -Daniel Kahneman 
"overconfidence is a direct consequence of features of System 1 that can be tamed--but not vanquished. The main obstacle is that subjective confidence is determined by the coherence of the story one has constructed, not by the quality and amount of the information that supports it." -Daniel Kahneman 
"A lot happened to you during the last second or two." -Daniel Kahneman 
"the proper way to elicit information from a group is not by starting with a public discussion but by confidentially collecting each person's judgment." -Daniel Kahneman 
"the following two statements mean exactly the same thing: Large samples are more precise than small samples. Small samples yield extreme results more often than large samples do." -Daniel Kahneman 
"SPEAKING OF ATTENTION AND EFFORT "I won't try to solve this while driving. This is a pupil-dilating task. It requires mental effort!' "The law of least effort is operating here. He will think as little as possible.' "She did not forget about the meeting. She was completely focused on something else when the meeting was set and she just didn't hear you.' "What came quickly to my mind was an intuition from System 1. I'll have to start over and search my memory deliberately." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The damage caused by overconfident CEOs is compounded when the business press anoints them as celebrities; the evidence indicates that prestigious press awards to the CEO are costly to stockholders. The authors write, "We find that firms with award-winning CEOs subsequently underperform, in terms both of stock and of operating performance. At the same time, CEO compensation increases, CEOs spend more time on activities outside the company such as writing books and sitting on outside boards, and they are more likely to engage in earnings management." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Indeed, the average guess by people who were asked about Michigan is lower than the guesses of a similar group who were asked about the murder rate in Detroit. Blame for a failure to think of Detroit can be laid on both System 1 and System 2. Whether the city comes to mind when the state is mentioned depends in part on the automatic function of memory." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The agent of economic theory is rational, selfish, and his tastes do not change." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Analysis of thousands of sequences of shots led to a disappointing conclusion: there is no such thing as a hot hand in professional basketball, either in shooting from the field or scoring from the foul line." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Individuals who uncritically follow their intuitions about puzzles are also prone to accept other suggestions from System 1. In particular, they are impulsive, impatient, and keen to receive immediate gratification." -Daniel Kahneman 
"SPEAKING OF CONTROL "She did not have to struggle to stay on task for hours. She was in a state of flow.' "His ego was depleted after a long day of meetings. So he just turned to standard operating procedures instead of thinking through the problem.' "He didn't bother to check whether what he said made sense. Does he usually have a lazy System 2 or was he unusually tired?' "Unfortunately, she tends to say the first thing that comes into her mind. She probably also has trouble delaying gratification. Weak System 2." -Daniel Kahneman 
"System 1 constructed a story, and his System 2 believed it. It happens to all of us." -Daniel Kahneman 
"suppression of doubt contributes to overconfidence in a group where only supporters of the decision have a voice. The main virtue of the premortem is that it legitimizes doubts." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The world in our heads is not a precise replica of reality;" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Everyone has some awareness of the limited capacity of attention, and our social behaviour makes allowances for these limitations" -Daniel Kahneman 
"To a psychologist, it is self-evident that people are neither fully rational nor completely selfish, and that their tastes are anything but stable." -Daniel Kahneman 
"A reliable way to make people believe in falsehoods is frequent repetition, because familiarity is not easily distinguished from truth. Authoritarian institutions and marketers have always known this fact. But" -Daniel Kahneman 
"If it is the only one that comes to mind, it may be subjectively undistinguishable from valid judgments that you make with expert confidence. This is why subjective confidence is not a good diagnostic of accuracy: judgments that answer the wrong question can also be made with high confidence" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The bat-and-ball problem, the flowers syllogism, and the Michigan/Detroit problem have something in common. Failing these minitests appears to be, at least to some extent, a matter of insufficient motivation, not trying hard enough." -Daniel Kahneman 
"frequency of lovemaking minus frequency of quarrels" -Daniel Kahneman 
"students of policy have noted that the availability heuristic helps explain why some issues are highly salient in the public's mind while others are neglected. People tend to assess the relative importance of issues by the ease with which they are retrieved from memory--and this is largely determined by the extent of coverage in the media. Frequently mentioned topics populate the mind even as others slip away from awareness. In turn, what the media choose to report corresponds to their view of what is currently on the public's mind. It is no accident that authoritarian regimes exert substantial pressure on independent media. Because public interest is most easily aroused by dramatic events and by celebrities, media feeding frenzies are common." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The premortem is not a panacea and does not provide complete protection against nasty surprises, but it goes some way toward reducing the damage of plans that are subject to the biases of WYSIATI and uncritical optimism." -Daniel Kahneman 
"There is good reason to believe that the administration of justice is infected by predictable incoherence in several domains. The evidence is drawn in part from experiments, including studies of mock juries, and in part from observation of patterns in legislation, regulation, and litigation." -Daniel Kahneman 
"As I had discovered from watching cadets on the obstacle field, subjective confidence of traders is a feeling, not a judgment. Our understanding of cognitive ease and associative coherence locates subjective confidence firmly in System 1." -Daniel Kahneman 
"People tend to assess the relative importance of issues by the ease with which they are retrieved from memory--and this is largely determined by the extent of coverage in the media. Frequently mentioned topics populate the mind even as others slip away from awareness. In turn, what the media choose to report corresponds to their view of what is currently on the public's mind. It is no accident that authoritarian regimes exert substantial pressure on independent media." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The affect heuristic is an instance of substitution, in which the answer to an easy question (How do I feel about it?) serves as an answer to a much harder question (What do I think about it?)." -Daniel Kahneman 
"An important advance is that emotion now looms much larger in our understanding of intuitive judgments and choices than it did in the past. The executive's decision would today be described as an example of the affect heuristic, where judgments and decisions are guided directly by feelings of liking and disliking, with little deliberation or reasoning." -Daniel Kahneman 
"People tend to assess the relative importance of issues by the ease with which they are retrieved from memory--and this is largely determined by the extent of coverage in the media. Frequently mentioned topics populate the mind even as others slip away from awareness. In turn, what the media choose to report corresponds to their view of what is currently on the public's mind." -Daniel Kahneman 
"We find that firms with award-winning CEOs subsequently underperform, in terms both of stock and of operating performance. At the same time, CEO compensation increases, CEOs spend more time on activities outside the company such as writing books and sitting on outside boards, and they are more likely to engage in earnings management." -Daniel Kahneman 
"policy is ultimately about people, what they want and what is best for them." -Daniel Kahneman 
"They added a cheap gift to the expensive product, and made the whole deal less attractive. Less is more in this case." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The ultimate test of an explanation is whether it would have made the event predictable in advance." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The affect heuristic simplifies our lives by creating a world that is much tidier than reality. Good technologies have few costs in the imaginary world we inhabit, bad technologies have no benefits, and all decisions are easy. In the real world, of course, we often face painful tradeoffs between benefits and costs." -Daniel Kahneman 
"It is no accident that authoritarian regimes exert substantial pressure on independent media. Because public interest is most easily aroused by dramatic events and by celebrities, media feeding frenzies are common." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The shape of the response was an inverted V. As you experienced it if you tried Add-1 or Add-3, effort builds up with every added digit that you hear, reaches an almost intolerable peak as you rush to produce a transformed string during and immediately after the pause, and relaxes gradually as you "unload' your short-term memory." -Daniel Kahneman 
"An idea that has been activated does not merely evoke one other idea. It activates many ideas, which in turn activate others. Furthermore, only a few of the activated ideas will register in consciousness; most of the work of associative thinking is silent, hidden from our conscious selves. The notion that we have limited access to the workings of our minds is difficult to accept because, naturally, it is alien to our experience, but it is true: you know far less about yourself than you feel you do." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Can your System 1 distinguish degrees of belief? The principle of WYSIATI suggests that it cannot." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The experimenters recruited 40 Princeton students to take the CRT. Half of them saw the puzzles in a small font in washed-out gray print. The puzzles were legible, but the font induced cognitive strain. The results tell a clear story: 90% of the students who saw the CRT in normal font made at least one mistake in the test, but the proportion dropped to 35% when the font was barely legible. You read this correctly: performance was better with the bad font. Cognitive strain, whatever its source, mobilizes System 2, which is more likely to reject the intuitive answer suggested by System 1." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Belief in the Law of Small Numbers." -Daniel Kahneman 
"puzzling limitation of our mind: our excessive confidence in what we believe we know, and our apparent inability to acknowledge the full extent of our ignorance and the uncertainty of the world we live in." -Daniel Kahneman 
"asymmetric intensity of the motives to avoid losses and to achieve gains shows up almost everywhere." -Daniel Kahneman 
"System 1 has more influence on behavior when System 2 is busy, and it has a sweet tooth. People who are cognitively busy are also more likely to make selfish choices, use sexist language, and make superficial judgments in social situations. Memorizing and repeating digits loosens the hold of System 2 on behavior, but of course cognitive load is not the only cause of weakened self-control." -Daniel Kahneman 
"In short, you experience greater cognitive ease in perceiving a word you have seen earlier, and it is this sense of ease that gives you the impression of familiarity." -Daniel Kahneman 
"supported by a powerful professional culture. We know that people can maintain an unshakable faith in any proposition, however absurd, when they are sustained by a community of like-minded believers. Given" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The strong bias toward believing that small samples closely resemble the population from which they are drawn is also part of a larger story: we are prone to exaggerate the consistency and coherence of what we see." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Damasio and his colleagues have observed that people who do not display the appropriate emotions before they decide, sometimes because of brain damage, also have an impaired ability to make good decisions. An inability to be guided by a "healthy fear' of bad consequences is a disastrous flaw." -Daniel Kahneman 
"a single cockroach will completely wreck the appeal of a bowl of cherries, but a cherry will do nothing at all for a bowl of cockroaches. As he points out, the negative trumps the positive in many ways, and loss aversion is one of many manifestations of a broad negativity dominance." -Daniel Kahneman 
"the pupils are sensitive indicators of mental effort" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Jumping to conclusions is a safer sport in the world of our imagination than it is in reality. Statistics" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Add-1 with four digits caused a larger dilation than the task of holding seven digits for immediate recall. Add-3, which is much more difficult," -Daniel Kahneman 
"A los que evitan el pecado de la pereza intelectual podríamos llamarlos «diligentes». Están más alerta, son intelectualmente más activos, están menos dispuestos a quedarse satisfechos con respuestas superficialmente sugerentes, y son más escépticos con sus intuiciones." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Narrative fallacies arise inevitably from our continuous attempt to make sense of the world." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The media do not just shape what the public is interested in, but also are shaped by it. Editors cannot ignore the public's demands that certain topics and viewpoints receive extensive coverage. Unusual" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Another way of saying this is that controlling thoughts and behaviors is one of the tasks that System 2 performs." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The events that took place as a result of your seeing the words happened by a process called associative activation: ideas that have been evoked trigger many other ideas, in a spreading cascade of activity in your brain. The" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Todorov has found that people judge competence by combining the two dimensions of strength and trustworthiness." -Daniel Kahneman 
"people expect to have stronger emotional reactions (including regret) to an outcome that is produced by action than to the same outcome when it is produced by inaction." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The implication is clear: as the psychologist Jonathan Haidt said in another context, "The emotional tail wags the rational dog" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Loss aversion refers to the relative strength of two motives: we are driven more strongly to avoid losses than to achieve gains. A reference point is sometimes the status quo, but it can also be a goal in the future: not achieving a goal is a loss, exceeding the goal is a gain. As we might expect from negativity dominance, the two motives are not equally powerful. The aversion to the failure of not reaching the goal is much stronger than the desire to exceed it." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The Robust Beauty of Improper Linear Models in Decision Making." -Daniel Kahneman 
"recipe for a dissatisfied adulthood is setting goals that are especially difficult to attain. Measured by life satisfaction 20 years later, the least promising goal that a young person could have was "becoming accomplished in a performing art." -Daniel Kahneman 
"assign a larger role to talent, stupidity, and intentions than to luck; and focus on a few striking events that happened rather than on the countless events that failed" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Its cost is "sunk' and the Econ would not care whether he had bought the ticket to the game or got it from a friend (if Econs have friends)." -Daniel Kahneman 
"It appears to be a feature of System 1 that cognitive ease is associated with good feelings. As expected, easily pronounced words evoke a favorable attitude. Companies with pronounceable names do better than others for the first week after the stock is issued, though the effect disappears over time. Stocks with pronounceable trading symbols (like KAR or LUNMOO) outperform those with tongue-twisting tickers like PXG or RDO--and they appear to retain a small advantage over some time. A study conducted in Switzerland found that investors believe that stocks with fluent names like Emmi, Swissfirst, and Comet will earn higher returns than those with clunky labels like Geberit and Ypsomed." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The cycle is sometimes sped along deliberately by "availability entrepreneurs,' individuals or organizations who work to ensure a continuous flow of worrying news." -Daniel Kahneman 
"An individual has been described by a neighbor as follows: "Steve is very shy and withdrawn, invariably helpful but with little interest in people or in the world of reality. A meek and tidy soul, he has a need for order and structure, and a passion for detail.' Is Steve more likely to be a librarian or a farmer? The resemblance of Steve's personality to that of a stereotypical librarian strikes everyone immediately, but equally relevant statistical considerations are almost always ignored. Did it occur to you that there are more than 20 male farmers for each male librarian in the United States? Because there are so many more farmers, it is almost certain that more "meek and tidy' souls will be found on tractors than at library information desks. However, we found that participants in our experiments ignored the relevant statistical facts and relied exclusively on resemblance." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Some people are better than others in these tasks of brain power--they are the individuals who excel in intelligence tests and are able to switch from one task to another quickly and efficiently. However, Stanovich argues that high intelligence does not make people immune to biases. Another ability is involved, which he labels rationality. Stanovich's concept of a rational person is similar to what I earlier labeled "engaged.' The core of his argument is that rationality should be distinguished from intelligence. In his view, superficial or "lazy' thinking is a flaw in the reflective mind, a failure of rationality. This is an attractive and thought-provoking idea. In support of it, Stanovich and his colleagues have found that the bat-and-ball question and others like it are somewhat better indicators of our susceptibility to cognitive errors than are conventional measures of intelligence, such as IQ tests." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Walter Mischel and his students exposed four-year-old children to a cruel dilemma. They were given a choice between a small reward (one Oreo), which they could have at any time, or a larger reward (two cookies) for which they had to wait 15 minutes under difficult conditions." -Daniel Kahneman 
"We spend much of our day anticipating, and trying to avoid, the emotional pains we inflict on ourselves. How seriously should we take these intangible outcomes, the self-administered punishments (and occasional rewards) that we experience as we score our lives?" -Daniel Kahneman 
"optimistic bias plays a role--sometimes the dominant role--whenever individuals or institutions voluntarily take on significant risks." -Daniel Kahneman 
"two important facts about our minds: we can be blind to the obvious, and we are also blind to our blindness." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Facts that we know do not always come to mind when we need them. People" -Daniel Kahneman 
"SPEAKING OF PRIMING "The sight of all these people in uniforms does not prime creativity.' "The world makes much less sense than you think. The coherence comes mostly from the way your mind works.' "They were primed to find flaws, and this is exactly what they found.' "His System 1 constructed a story, and his System 2 believed it. It happens to all of us.' "I made myself smile and I'm actually feeling better!" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Why are experts inferior to algorithms? One reason, which Meehl suspected, is that experts try to be clever, think outside the box, and consider complex combinations of features in making their predictions. Complexity may work in the odd case, but more often than not it reduces validity. Simple combinations of features are better." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The impression of familiarity is produced by System 1, and System 2 relies on that impression for a true/false judgment." -Daniel Kahneman 
"As expected, the effect of facial competence on voting is about three times larger for information-poor and TV-prone voters than for others who are better informed and watch less television" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The Alar tale illustrates a basic limitation in the ability of our mind to deal with small risks: we either ignore them altogether or give them far too much weight--nothing in between" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Italy and France competed in the 2006 final of the World Cup. The next two sentences both describe the outcome: "Italy won.' "France lost.' Do those statements have the same meaning? The answer depends entirely on what you mean by meaning." -Daniel Kahneman 
"when we are uncomfortable and unhappy, we lose touch with our intuition." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Simple, common gestures can also unconsciously influence our thoughts and feelings." -Daniel Kahneman 
"the illusion of valid prediction remains intact, a fact that is exploited by people whose business is prediction--not only financial experts but pundits in business and politics, too." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Several teams of German psychologists that have studied the RAT in recent years have come up with remarkable discoveries about cognitive ease. One of the teams raised two questions: Can people feel that a triad of words has a solution before they know what the solution is? How does mood influence performance in this task? To find out, they first made some of their subjects happy and others sad, by asking them to think for several minutes about happy or sad episodes in their lives. Then they presented these subjects with a series of triads, half of them linked (such as dive, light, rocket) and half unlinked (such as dream, ball, book), and instructed them to press one of two keys very quickly to indicate their guess about whether the triad was linked. The time allowed for this guess, 2 seconds, was much too short for the actual solution to come to anyone's mind. The first surprise is that people's guesses are much more accurate than they would be by chance. I find this astonishing. A sense of cognitive ease is apparently generated by a very faint signal from the associative machine, which "knows' that the three words are coherent (share an association) long before the association is retrieved. The role of cognitive ease in the judgment was confirmed experimentally by another German team: manipulations that increase cognitive ease (priming, a clear font, pre-exposing words) all increase the tendency to see the words as linked. Another remarkable discovery is the powerful effect of mood on this intuitive performance. The experimenters computed an "intuition index' to measure accuracy. They found that putting the participants in a good mood before the test by having them think happy thoughts more than doubled accuracy. An even more striking result is that unhappy subjects were completely incapable of performing the intuitive task accurately; their guesses were no better than random. Mood evidently affects the operation of System 1: when we are uncomfortable and unhappy, we lose touch with our intuition. These findings add to the growing evidence that good mood, intuition, creativity, gullibility, and increased reliance on System 1 form a cluster. At the other pole, sadness, vigilance, suspicion, an analytic approach, and increased effort also go together. A happy mood loosens the control of System 2 over performance: when in a good mood, people become more intuitive and more creative but also less vigilant and more prone to logical errors. Here again, as in the mere exposure effect, the connection makes biological sense. A good mood is a signal that things are generally going well, the environment is safe, and it is all right to let one's guard down. A bad mood indicates that things are not going very well, there may be a threat, and vigilance is required. Cognitive ease is both a cause and a consequence of a pleasant feeling." -Daniel Kahneman 
"But the main problem was that we failed to allow for what Donald Rumsfeld famously called the "unknown unknowns" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Overconfidence: As the WYSIATI rule implies, neither the quantity nor the quality of the evidence counts for much in subjective confidence." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Anything that makes it easier for the associative machine to run smoothly will also bias beliefs." -Daniel Kahneman 
"It is hard to think of the history of the twentieth century, including its large social movements, without bringing in the role of Hitler, Stalin, and Mao Zedong. But there was a moment in time, just before an egg was fertilized, when there was a fifty-fifty chance that the embryo that became Hitler could have been a female. Compounding" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Inconsistencies reduce the ease of our thoughts and the clarity of our feelings." -Daniel Kahneman 
"whenever the correlation between two scores is imperfect, there will be regression to the mean." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Statistical results with a causal interpretation have a stronger effect on our thinking than non-causal information. But even compelling causal statistics will not change long-held beliefs or beliefs rooted in personal experience." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Freedom has a cost, which is borne by individuals who make bad choices, and by a society that feels obligated to help them." -Daniel Kahneman 
"When I describe priming studies to audiences, the reaction is often disbelief. [...] The idea you should focus on, however, is that disbelief is not an option. The results are not made up, nor are they statistical flukes. You have no choice but to accept that the major conclusions of these studies are true. More important, you must accept that they are true about . [...] You do not believe that these results apply to you because they correspond to nothing in your subjective experience. But your subjective experience consists largely of the story that your System 2 tells itself about what is going on. Priming phenomena arise in System 1, and you have no conscious access to them." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Experts who acknowledge the full extent of their ignorance may expect to be replaced by more confident competitors, who are better able to gain the trust of clients. An unbiased appreciation of uncertainty is a cornerstone of rationality--but it is not what people and organizations want. Extreme uncertainty is paralyzing under dangerous circumstances, and the admission that one is merely guessing is especially unacceptable when the stakes are high. Acting on pretended knowledge is often the preferred solution." -Daniel Kahneman 
"people who spend their time, and earn their living, studying a particular topic produce poorer predictions than dart-throwing monkeys who would have distributed their choices evenly over the options. Even in the region they knew best, experts were not significantly better than nonspecialists." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Political scientists followed up on Todorov's initial research by identifying a category of voters for whom the automatic preferences of System 1 are particularly likely to play a large role. They found what they were looking for among politically uninformed voters who watch a great deal of television. As expected, the effect of facial competence on voting is about three times larger for information-poor and TV-prone voters than for others who are better informed and watch less television." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Suppose that you need to hire a sales representative for your firm. If you are serious about hiring the best possible person for the job, this is what you should do. First, select a few traits that are prerequisites for success in this position (technical proficiency, engaging personality, reliability, and so on). Don't overdo it--six dimensions is a good number. The traits you choose should be as independent as possible from each other, and you should feel that you can assess them reliably by asking a few factual questions. Next, make a list of those questions for each trait and think about how you will score it, say on a 1–5 scale. You should have an idea of what you will call "very weak' or "very strong.' These preparations should take you half an hour or so, a small investment that can make a significant difference in the quality of the people you hire. To avoid halo effects, you must collect the information on one trait at a time, scoring each before you move on to the next one. Do not skip around. To evaluate each candidate, add up the six scores. Because you are in charge of the final decision, you should not do a "close your eyes.' Firmly resolve that you will hire the candidate whose final score is the highest, even if there is another one whom you like better--try to resist your wish to invent broken legs to change the ranking. A vast amount of research offers a promise: you are much more likely to find the best candidate if you use this procedure than if you do what people normally do in such situations, which is to go into the interview unprepared and to make choices by an overall intuitive judgment such as "I looked into his eyes and liked what I saw." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The automatic processes of the mental shotgun and intensity matching often make available one or more answers to easy questions that could be mapped onto the target question." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The evidence of priming studies suggests that reminding people of their mortality increases the appeal of authoritarian ideas, which may become reassuring in the context of the terror of death. Other" -Daniel Kahneman 
"System 1 runs ahead of the facts in constructing a rich image on the basis of scraps of evidence." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The explanatory stories that people find compelling are simple; are concrete rather than abstract; assign a larger role to talent, stupidity, and intentions than to luck; and focus on a few striking events that happened rather than on the countless events that failed to happen." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The assumption that agents are rational provides the intellectual foundation for the libertarian approach to public policy: do not interfere with the individual's right to choose, unless the choices harm others. Libertarian policies are further bolstered by admiration for the efficiency of markets in allocating goods to the people who are willing to pay the most for them." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Researchers have applied diverse methods to examine the connection between thinking and self-control. Some have addressed it by asking the correlation question: If people were ranked by their self-control and by their cognitive aptitude, would individuals have similar positions in the two rankings?" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Intuitive predictions are almost completely insensitive to the actual predictive quality of the evidence." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The list of indications of depletion is also highly diverse: deviating from one's diet overspending on impulsive purchases reacting aggressively to provocation persisting less time in a handgrip task performing poorly in cognitive tasks and logical decision making" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The hot hand is a massive and widespread cognitive illusion." -Daniel Kahneman 
"We are confident when the story we tell ourselves comes easily to mind, with no contradiction and no competing scenario. But" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Correcting your predictions may complicate your life" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The remembering self is the one that answers the question: "How was it, on the whole?' Memories are all we get to keep from our experience of living, and the only perspective that we can adopt as we think about our lives is therefore that of the remembering self." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Those who know more forecast very slightly better than those who know less. But those with the most knowledge are often less reliable. The reason is that the person who acquires more knowledge develops an enhanced illusion of her skill and becomes unrealistically overconfident. "We reach the point of diminishing marginal predictive returns for knowledge disconcertingly quickly,' Tetlock writes." -Daniel Kahneman 
"We focus on what we want to do and can do, neglecting the plans and skills of others." -Daniel Kahneman 
"However, we are not all rational, and some of us may need the security of distorted estimates to avoid paralysis." -Daniel Kahneman 
"In a memorable example, Dawes showed that marital stability is well predicted by a formula: frequency of lovemaking minus frequency of quarrels You don't want your result to be a negative number." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Betty is much more likely to take her chances, as others do when faced with very bad options. As" -Daniel Kahneman 
"our mind is strongly biased toward causal explanations and does not deal well with "mere statistics.' When our attention is called to an event, associative memory will look for its cause--more precisely, activation will automatically spread to any cause that is already stored in memory." -Daniel Kahneman 
"When you take the long view of many similar decisions, you can see that paying a premium to avoid a small risk of a large loss is costly. A similar analysis applies to each of the cells of the fourfold pattern: systematic deviations from expected value are costly in the long run – and this rule applies to both risk aversion and risk seeing. Consistent overweighting of improbable outcomes – a feature of intuitive decision making – eventually leads to inferior outcomes." -Daniel Kahneman 
"In the competition with the inside view, the outside view doesn't stand a chance." -Daniel Kahneman 
"our inborn readiness to separate physical and intentional causality explains the near universality of religious beliefs. He observes that "we perceive the world of objects as essentially separate from the world of minds, making it possible for us to envision soulless bodies and bodiless souls.' The two modes of causation that we are set to perceive make it natural for us to accept the two central beliefs of many religions: an immaterial divinity is the ultimate cause of the physical world, and immortal souls temporarily control our bodies while we live and leave them behind as we die. In Bloom's view, the two concepts of causality were shaped separately by evolutionary forces, building the origins of religion into the structure of System 1. The" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Multiple international bodies have specified that the absence of scientific evidence of potential damage is not sufficient justification for taking risks. As the jurist Cass Sunstein points out, the precautionary principle is costly, and when interpreted strictly it can be paralyzing." -Daniel Kahneman 
"puzzles were legible, but the font induced cognitive strain. The results tell a clear story: 90% of the students who saw the CRT in normal font made at least one mistake in the test, but the proportion dropped to 35% when the font was barely legible. You read this correctly: performance was better with the bad font. Cognitive strain, whatever its source, mobilizes System 2, which is more likely to reject the intuitive answer suggested by System 1." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Plans are best-case scenarios. Let's avoid anchoring on plans when we forecast actual outcomes. Thinking about ways the plan could go wrong is one way to do it." -Daniel Kahneman 
"occupations by probability and by similarity in exactly the same way." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Ten or fifteen years later, a large gap had opened between those who had resisted temptation and those who had not. The resisters had higher measures of executive control in cognitive tasks, and especially the ability to reallocate their attention effectively." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Contrary to the rules of philosophers of science, who advise testing hypotheses by trying to refute them, people (and scientists, quite often) seek data that are likely to be compatible with the beliefs they currently hold." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The list of situations and tasks that are now known to deplete self-control is long and varied. All involve conflict and the need to suppress a natural tendency. They include:" -Daniel Kahneman 
"In other words, people who spend their time, and earn their living, studying a particular topic produce poorer predictions than dart-throwing monkeys who would have distributed their choices evenly over the options. Even in the region they knew best, experts were not significantly better than nonspecialists." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The truth is that small schools are not better on average; they are simply more variable." -Daniel Kahneman 
"And the more luck was involved, the less there is to be learned." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Questioning what we believe and want is difficult at the best of times," -Daniel Kahneman 
"Tetlock also found that experts resisted admitting that they had been wrong, and when they were compelled to admit error, they had a large collection of excuses: they had been wrong only in their timing, an unforeseeable event had intervened, or they had been wrong but for the right reasons." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Many decisions are based on beliefs concerning the likelihood of uncertain events such as the outcome of an election, the guilt of a defendant, or the future value of the dollar." -Daniel Kahneman 
"But those with the most knowledge are often less reliable. The reason is that the person who acquires more knowledge develops an enhanced illusion of her skill and becomes unrealistically overconfident. "We reach the point of diminishing marginal predictive returns" -Daniel Kahneman 
"These students can solve much more difficult problems when they are not tempted to accept a superficially plausible answer that comes readily to mind." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Contractors of kitchen renovations and of weapon systems readily admit (though not to their clients) that they routinely make most of their profit on additions to the original plan." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The conclusion is straightforward: self-control requires attention and effort." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Substituting one question for another can be a good strategy for solving difficult problems, and George Pólya included substitution in his classic How to Solve It: "If you can't solve a problem, then there is an easier problem you can solve: find it.' Pólya's heuristics are strategic procedures that are deliberately implemented by System 2. But the heuristics that I discuss in this chapter are not chosen; they are a consequence of the mental shotgun, the imprecise control we have over targeting our responses to questions." -Daniel Kahneman 
"We focus on what we know and neglect what we do not know, which makes us overly confident in our beliefs." -Daniel Kahneman 
"You cannot help dealing with the limited information you have as if it were all there is to know. You build the best possible story from the information available to you, and if it is a good story, you believe it. Paradoxically, it is easier to construct a coherent story when you know little, when there are fewer pieces to fit into the puzzle. Our comforting conviction that the world makes sense rests on a secure foundation: our almost unlimited ability to ignore our ignorance." -Daniel Kahneman 
"You may know that there is really (almost) nothing to worry about, but you cannot help images of disaster from coming to mind." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The dominance of conclusions over arguments is most pronounced where emotions are involved. The psychologist Paul Slovic has proposed an affect heuristic in which people let their likes and dislikes determine their beliefs about the world." -Daniel Kahneman 
"More generally, the financial benefits of self-employment are mediocre: given the same qualifications, people achieve higher average returns by selling their skills to employers than by setting out on their own. The" -Daniel Kahneman 
"when System 2 is otherwise engaged, we will believe almost anything. System 1 is gullible and biased to believe," -Daniel Kahneman 
"For one thing, it helps us see the logical consistency of Human preferences for what it is--a hopeless mirage" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Organizations face the challenge of controlling the tendency of executives competing for resources to present overly optimistic plans. A well-run organization will reward planners for precise execution and penalize them for failing to anticipate difficulties, and for failing to allow for difficulties that they could not have anticipated--the unknown unknowns." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Differences between experts and the public are explained in part by biases in lay judgments, but Slovic draws attention to situations in which the differences reflect a genuine conflict of values. He points out that experts often measure risks by the number of lives (or life-years) lost, while the public draws finer distinctions, for example between "good deaths' and "bad deaths,' or between random accidental fatalities and deaths that occur in the course of voluntary activities such as skiing. These legitimate distinctions are often ignored in statistics that merely count cases. Slovic argues from such observations that the public has a richer conception of risks than the experts do. Consequently, he strongly resists the view that the experts should rule, and that their opinions should be accepted without question when they conflict with the opinions and wishes of other citizens. When experts and the public disagree on their priorities, he says, "Each side must respect the insights and intelligence of the other." -Daniel Kahneman 
"When System 1 runs into difficulty, it calls on System 2 to support more detailed and specific processing that may solve the problem of the moment. System 2 is mobilized when a question arises for which System 1 does not offer an answer, as probably happened to you when you encountered the multiplication problem 17 × 24. You can also feel a surge of conscious attention whenever you are surprised." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Amos and I called our first joint article "Belief in the Law of Small Numbers.' We explained, tongue-in-cheek, that "intuitions about random sampling appear to satisfy the law of small numbers, which asserts that the law of large numbers applies to small numbers as well.' We also included a strongly worded recommendation that researchers regard their "statistical intuitions with proper suspicion and replace impression formation by computation whenever possible." -Daniel Kahneman 
"when System 2 is otherwise engaged, we will believe almost anything. System 1 is gullible and biased to believe, System 2 is in charge of doubting and unbelieving, but System 2 is sometimes busy, and often lazy. Indeed, there is evidence that people are more likely to be influenced by empty persuasive messages, such as commercials, when they are tired and depleted." -Daniel Kahneman 
"We found that people, when engaged in a mental sprint, may become effectively blind. The authors of The Invisible Gorilla had made the gorilla "invisible' by keeping the observers intensely busy counting passes." -Daniel Kahneman 
"An essential design feature of the associative machine is that it represents only activated ideas. Information that is not retrieved (even unconsciously) from memory might as well not exist." -Daniel Kahneman 
"A team of researchers at the University of Oregon explored the link between cognitive control and intelligence in several ways, including an attempt to raise intelligence by improving the control of attention." -Daniel Kahneman 
"once you have accepted a theory and used it as a tool in your thinking, it is extraordinarily difficult to notice its flaws." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Imagine that you are asked to retain a list of seven digits for a minute or two. You are told that remembering the digits is your top priority. While your attention is focused on the digits, you are offered a choice between two desserts: a sinful chocolate cake and a virtuous fruit salad. The evidence suggests that you would be more likely to select the tempting chocolate cake when your mind is loaded with digits. System 1 has more influence on behavior when System 2 is busy, and it has a sweet tooth." -Daniel Kahneman 
"We call this a priming effect and say that the idea of EAT primes the idea of SOUP, and that WASH primes SOAP." -Daniel Kahneman 
"To be a good diagnostician, a physician needs to acquire a large set of labels for diseases, each of which binds an idea of the illness and its symptoms, possible antecedents and causes, possible developments and consequences, and possible interventions to cure or mitigate the illness." -Daniel Kahneman 
"It is difficult to reconstruct what it was that took us years, long hours of discussion, endless exchanges of drafts and hundreds of e-mails negotiating over words, and more than once almost giving up. But this is what always happens when a project ends reasonably well: once you understand the main conclusion, it seems it was always obvious." -Daniel Kahneman 
"In the presence of randomness, regular patterns can only be mirages." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Gruesome images, endlessly repeated in the media, cause everyone to be on edge. As I know from experience, it is difficult to reason oneself into a state of complete calm." -Daniel Kahneman 
"the idea of money primes individualism: a reluctance to be involved with others, to depend on others, or to accept demands from others." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The answer was straightforward: instances of the class will be retrieved from memory, and if retrieval is easy and fluent, the category will be judged to be large. We defined the availability heuristic as the process of judging frequency by "the ease with which instances come to mind." -Daniel Kahneman 
"And you should not expect much from pundits making long-term forecasts--although they may have valuable insights into the near future. The" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The mind is good with stories, but it does not appear to be well designed for the processing of time." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Because System 1 operates automatically and cannot be turned off at will, errors of intuitive thought are often difficult to prevent. Biases cannot always be avoided, because System 2 may have no clue to the error." -Daniel Kahneman 
"System 1 is not prone to doubt. It suppresses ambiguity and spontaneously constructs stories that are as coherent as possible. Unless the message is immediately negated, the associations that it evokes will spread as if the message were true." -Daniel Kahneman 
"As expected, the effect of facial competence on voting is about three times larger for information-poor and TV-prone voters than for others who are better informed and watch less television." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Unless you are a professional, however, you may not react very differently to a sample of 150 and to a sample of 3,000. That is the meaning of the statement that "people are not adequately sensitive to sample size." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Adam switches from a gas-guzzler of 12 mpg to a slightly less voracious guzzler that runs at 14 mpg. The environmentally virtuous Beth switches from a 30 mpg car to one that runs at 40 mpg." -Daniel Kahneman 
"In contrast, Meehl and other proponents of algorithms have argued strongly that it is unethical to rely on intuitive judgments for important decisions if an algorithm is available that will make fewer mistakes." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Although System 2 believes itself to be where the action is, the automatic System 1 is the hero of the book. I describe System 1 as effortlessly originating impressions and feelings that are the main sources of the explicit beliefs and deliberate choices of System 2. The" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Social scientists in the 1970s broadly accepted two ideas about human nature. First, people are generally rational, and their thinking is normally sound. Second, emotions such as fear, affection, and hatred explain most of the occasions on which people depart from rationality" -Daniel Kahneman 
"We do not expect to see regularity produced by a random process, and when we detect what appears to be a rule, we quickly reject the idea that the process is truly random. Random processes produce many sequences that convince people that the process is not random after all." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The exaggerated faith in small samples is only one example of a more general illusion--we pay more attention to the content of messages than to information about their reliability, and as a result end up with a view of the world around us that is simpler and more coherent than the data justify. Jumping to conclusions is a safer sport in the world of our imagination than it is in reality. Statistics produce many observations that appear to beg for causal explanations but do not lend themselves to such explanations. Many facts of the world are due to chance, including accidents of sampling. Causal explanations of chance events are inevitably wrong." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The children were watched through a one-way mirror, and the film that shows their behavior during the waiting time always has the audience roaring in laughter. About half the children managed the feat of waiting for 15 minutes, mainly by keeping their attention away from the tempting reward. Ten or fifteen years later, a large gap had opened between those who had resisted temptation and those who had not. The resisters had higher measures of executive control in cognitive tasks, and especially the ability to reallocate their attention effectively. As young adults, they were less likely to take drugs. A significant difference in intellectual aptitude emerged: the children who had shown more self-control as four-year-olds had substantially higher scores on tests of intelligence." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Most importantly, of course, we all care intensely for the narrative of our own life and very much want it to be a good story, with a decent hero." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Our subjects were exposed to a series of rapidly flashing letters while they worked. They were told to give the task complete priority, but they were also asked to report, at the end of the digit task, whether the letter K had appeared at any time during the trial." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The notion that we have limited access to the workings of our minds is difficult to accept because, naturally, it is alien to our experience, but it is true: you know far less about yourself than you feel you do." -Daniel Kahneman 
"it is easier to recognize other people's mistakes than our own." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The conclusion is straightforward: self-control requires attention and effort. Another way of saying this is that controlling thoughts and behaviors is one of the tasks that System 2 performs." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Learning medicine consists in part of learning the language of medicine. A deeper understanding of judgments and choices also requires a richer vocabulary than is available in everyday language." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Amos and I coined the term planning fallacy to describe plans and forecasts that are unrealistically close to best-case scenarios could be improved by consulting the statistics of similar cases" -Daniel Kahneman 
"there was no awareness, just a habitual connection between an attitude of rejection or acceptance and its common physical expression. You can see why the common admonition to "act calm and kind regardless of how you feel' is very good advice: you are likely to be rewarded by actually feeling calm and kind." -Daniel Kahneman 
"the central fact of our existence is that time is the ultimate finite resource, but the remembering self ignores that reality" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The normal state of your mind is that you have intuitive feelings and opinions about almost everything that comes your way. You like or dislike people long before you know much about them; you trust or distrust strangers without knowing why; you feel that an enterprise is bound to succeed without analyzing" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Systematic errors are known as biases," -Daniel Kahneman 
"The observers almost never missed a K that was shown at the beginning or near the end of the Add-1 task but they missed the target almost half the time when mental effort was at its peak," -Daniel Kahneman 
"If a satisfactory answer to a hard question is not found quickly, System 1 will find a related question that is easier and will answer it. I" -Daniel Kahneman 
"an accurate diagnosis may suggest an intervention to limit the damage that bad judgments and choices often cause." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The widespread misunderstanding of randomness sometimes has significant consequences." -Daniel Kahneman 
"people rely on a limited number of heuristic principles which reduce the complex tasks of assessing probabilities and predicting values to simpler judgmental operations. In general, these heuristics are quite useful, but sometimes they lead to severe and systematic errors." -Daniel Kahneman 
"You can feel Simon's impatience with the mythologizing of expert intuition when he writes: "The situation has provided a cue; this cue has given the expert access to information stored in memory, and the information provides the answer. Intuition is nothing more and nothing less than recognition." -Daniel Kahneman 
"People who buy lottery tickets in vast amounts show themselves willing to pay much more than expected value for very small chances to win a large prize." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Michotte had a different idea: he argued that we see causality, just as directly as we see color." -Daniel Kahneman 
"When the handsome and confident speaker bounds onto the stage, for example, you can anticipate that the audience will judge his comments more favorably than he deserves. The availability of a diagnostic label for this bias--the halo effect--makes it easier to anticipate, recognize, and understand." -Daniel Kahneman 
"In simple words, prospect theory cannot deal with disappointment." -Daniel Kahneman 
"He had noticed that the pupils are sensitive indicators of mental effort--they dilate substantially when people multiply two-digit numbers, and they dilate more if the problems are hard than if they are easy. His" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The observers almost never missed a K that was shown at the beginning or near the end of the Add-1 task but they missed the target almost half the time when mental effort was at its peak, although we had pictures of their wide-open eye staring straight at" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The illusion of pattern affects our lives in many ways off the basketball court. How many good years should you wait before concluding that an investment adviser is unusually skilled? How many successful acquisitions should be needed for a board of directors to believe that the CEO has extraordinary flair for such deals? The simple answer to these questions is that if you follow your intuition, you will more often than not err by misclassifying a random event as systematic. We are far too willing to reject the belief that much of what we see in life is random." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Familiarity is not easily distinguished from truth." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The reliance on the heuristic caused predictable biases (systematic errors) in their predictions." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The amount of evidence and its quality do not count for much, because poor evidence can make a very good story. For some of our most important beliefs we have no evidence at all, except that people we love and trust hold these beliefs." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Your mind is ready and even eager to identify agents, assign them personality traits and specific intentions, and view their actions as expressing individual propensities." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The observers almost never missed a K that was shown at the beginning or near the end of the Add-1 task but they missed the target almost half the time when mental effort was at its peak, although we had pictures of their wide-open eye staring straight at it." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The executive's decision would today be described as an example of the affect heuristic, where judgments and decisions are guided directly by feelings of liking and disliking, with little deliberation or reasoning." -Daniel Kahneman 
"En la economía de la acción, el esfuerzo es un coste, y la adquisición de habilidad viene determinada por el balance de costes y beneficios.10 La pereza está profundamente arraigada en nuestra naturaleza." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Statistical algorithms greatly outdo humans in noisy environments for two reasons: they are more likely than human judges to detect weakly valid cues and much more likely to maintain a modest level of accuracy by using such cues consistently." -Daniel Kahneman 
"regression inevitably occurs when the correlation between two measures is less than perfect," -Daniel Kahneman 
"The similarity was reassuring: the pupil was a good measure of the physical arousal that accompanies mental effort, and we could go ahead and use it to understand how the mind works." -Daniel Kahneman 
"There are distinctive patterns in the errors people make. Systematic errors are known as biases, and they recur predictably in particular circumstances.... The availability of a diagnostic label for this bias--the halo effect--makes it easier to anticipate, recognize, and understand." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The evidence presents a profound challenge to the idea that humans have consistent preferences and know how to maximize them, a cornerstone of the rational-agent model. An inconsistency is built into the design of our minds." -Daniel Kahneman 
"On another occasion, Amos and I wondered about the rate of divorce among professors in our university. We noticed that the question triggered a search of memory for divorced professors we knew or knew about, and that we judged the size of categories by the ease with which instances came to mind. We called this reliance on the ease of memory search the availability heuristic." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The premise of this book is that it is easier to recognize other people's mistakes than our own." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Social scientists in the 1970s broadly accepted two ideas about human nature. First, people are generally rational, and their thinking is normally sound. Second, emotions such as fear, affection, and hatred explain most of the occasions on which people depart from rationality. Our article challenged both assumptions without discussing them directly." -Daniel Kahneman 
"System 1 runs automatically and System 2 is normally in a comfortable low-effort mode, in which only a fraction of its capacity is engaged. System 1 continuously generates suggestions for System 2: impressions, intuitions, intentions, and feelings. If endorsed by System 2, impressions and intuitions turn into beliefs, and impulses turn into voluntary actions. When" -Daniel Kahneman 
"You could not compute the product of 17 × 24 while making a left turn into dense traffic, and you certainly should not try. You" -Daniel Kahneman 
"For example, I recently came to doubt my long-held impression that adultery is more common among politicians than among physicians or lawyers." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Many individual investors lose consistently by trading, an achievement that a dart-throwing chimp could not match." -Daniel Kahneman 
"When the top prize is very large, ticket buyers appear indifferent to the fact that their chance of winning is minuscule. A lottery ticket is the ultimate example of the possibility effect. Without a ticket you cannot win, with a ticket you have a chance, and whether the chance is tiny or merely small matters little. Of course, what people acquire with a ticket is more than a chance to win; it is the right to dream pleasantly of winning." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Social scientists in the 1970s broadly accepted two ideas about human nature. First, people are generally rational, and their thinking is normally sound. Second, emotions such as fear, affection, and hatred explain most of the occasions on which people depart from rationality." -Daniel Kahneman 
"To a psychologist, it is self-evident that people are neither fully rational nor completely selfish, and that their tastes are anything but stable. Our two disciplines seemed to be studying different species, which the behavioral economist Richard Thaler later dubbed Econs and Humans." -Daniel Kahneman 
"People tend to assess the relative importance of issues by the ease with which they are retrieved from memory--and this is largely determined by the extent of coverage in the media." -Daniel Kahneman 
"recent events and the current context have the most weight in determining an interpretation." -Daniel Kahneman 
"He labels his proposal the premortem. The procedure is simple: when the organization has almost come to an important decision but has not formally committed itself, Klein proposes gathering for a brief session a group of individuals who are knowledgeable about the decision. The premise of the session is a short speech: "Imagine that we are a year into the future. We implemented the plan as it now exists. The outcome was a disaster. Please take 5 to 10 minutes to write a brief history of that disaster." -Daniel Kahneman 
"He weighs losses about twice as much as gains, which is normal." -Daniel Kahneman 
"When you feel strained, you are more likely to be vigilant and suspicious, invest more effort in what you are doing, feel less comfortable, and make fewer errors, but you also are less intuitive and less creative than usual." -Daniel Kahneman 
"framing effects: the large changes of preferences that are sometimes caused by inconsequential variations in the wording of a choice problem." -Daniel Kahneman 
"He had no idea what was wrong, but he knew something was wrong. It turned out that the heart of the fire had not been in the kitchen but in the basement beneath where the men had stood." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Surprise then activates and orients your attention: you will stare, and you will search your memory for a story that makes sense of the surprising event." -Daniel Kahneman 
"La gente que está cognitivamente ocupada3 es más probable que haga elecciones egoístas, use un lenguaje sexista y emita juicios superficiales en situaciones sociales." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Too much concern about how well one is doing in a task sometimes disrupts performance by loading short-term memory with pointless anxious thoughts." -Daniel Kahneman 
"THE VALUES ARE UNEQUAL BECAUSE OF LOSS AVERSION" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The procedure I adopted to tame the halo effect conforms to a general principle: decorrelate error!" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The exaggerated faith in small samples is only one example of a more general illusion--we pay more attention to the content of messages than to information about their reliability, and as a result end up with a view of the world around us that is simpler and more coherent than the data justify. Jumping to conclusions is a safer sport in the world of our imagination than it is in reality." -Daniel Kahneman 
"every human being has had the experience of not telling someone to go to hell. One" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The "Florida effect' involves two stages of priming. First, the set of words primes thoughts of old age, though the word old is never mentioned; second, these thoughts prime a behavior, walking slowly, which is associated with old age. All this happens without any awareness." -Daniel Kahneman 
"more intelligent individuals are more likely than others to have rich representations of most things." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The conclusion is that the ease with which instances come to mind is a System 1 heuristic, which is replaced by a focus on content when System 2 is more engaged. Multiple lines of evidence converge on the conclusion that people who let themselves be guided by System 1 are more strongly susceptible to availability biases than others who are in a state of higher vigilance. The" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Statistics produce many observations that appear to beg for causal explanations but do not lend themselves to such explanations. Many facts of the world are due to chance, including accidents of sampling. Causal explanations of chance events are inevitably wrong." -Daniel Kahneman 
"This is what he told us: "You will from time to time meet a patient who shares a disturbing tale of multiple mistakes in his previous treatment. He has been seen by several clinicians, and all failed him. The patient can lucidly describe how his therapists misunderstood him, but he has quickly perceived that you are different. You share the same feeling, are convinced that you understand him, and will be able to help.' At this point my teacher raised his voice as he said, "Do not even think of taking on this patient! Throw him out of the office! He is most likely a psychopath and you will not be able to help him." -Daniel Kahneman 
"anything that occupies your working memory reduces your ability to think." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Most of us are pitch-perfect in detecting anger in the first word of a telephone call, recognize as we enter a room that we were the subject of the conversation, and quickly react to subtle signs that the driver of the car in the next lane is dangerous. Our everyday intuitive abilities are no less marvelous than the striking insights of an experienced firefighter or physician--only more common." -Daniel Kahneman 
"SPEAKING OF COGNITIVE EASE "Let's not dismiss their business plan just because the font makes it hard to read.' "We must be inclined to believe it because it has been repeated so often, but let's think it through again.' "Familiarity breeds liking. This is a mere exposure effect.' "I'm in a very good mood today, and my System 2 is weaker than usual. I should be extra careful." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The rules of the betting are intelligent: recent events and the current context have the most weight in determining an interpretation. When no recent event comes to mind, more distant memories govern." -Daniel Kahneman 
"System 1 operates automatically and quickly, with little or no effort and no sense of voluntary control. System 2 allocates attention to the effortful mental activities that demand it, including complex computations. The operations of System 2 are often associated with the subjective experience of agency, choice, and concentration. The labels of System 1 and System 2 are widely used in psychology, but I go further than most in this book, which you can read as a psychodrama with two characters. When we think of ourselves, we identify with System 2, the conscious, reasoning self that has beliefs, makes choices, and decides what to think about and what to do. Although System 2 believes itself to be where the action is, the automatic System 1 is the hero of the book. I describe System 1 as effortlessly originating impressions and feelings that are the main sources of the explicit beliefs and deliberate choices of System 2. The automatic operations of System 1 generate surprisingly complex patterns of ideas, but only the slower System 2 can construct thoughts in an orderly series of steps. I also describe circumstances in which System 2 takes over, overruling the freewheeling impulses and associations of System 1." -Daniel Kahneman 
"More advice: if your message is to be printed, use high-quality paper to maximize the contrast between characters and their background. If you use color, you are more likely to be believed if your text is printed in bright blue or red than" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Poignancy (a close cousin of regret) is a counterfactual feeling, which" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The brains of humans and other animals contain a mechanism that is designed to give priority to bad news." -Daniel Kahneman 
"One recipe for a dissatisfied adulthood is setting goals that are especially difficult to attain. Measured by life satisfaction 20 years later, the least promising goal that a young person could have was becoming accomplished in a performing art" -Daniel Kahneman 
"you think with your body, not only with your brain." -Daniel Kahneman 
"stimuli that normally attract attention. The most dramatic demonstration was offered by Christopher Chabris and Daniel Simons in their book The Invisible Gorilla. They constructed a short film of two teams passing basketballs, one team wearing white shirts, the other wearing black. The viewers of the film are instructed to count the number of passes made by the white team, ignoring the black players. This task is difficult and completely absorbing. Halfway through the video, a woman wearing a gorilla suit appears, crosses the court, thumps her chest, and moves on. The gorilla is in view for 9 seconds. Many thousands of people have seen the video, and about half of them do not notice anything unusual. It is the counting task--and especially the instruction to ignore one of the teams--that causes the blindness. No one who watches the video without that task would miss the gorilla. Seeing and orienting are automatic" -Daniel Kahneman 
"When uncertain, System 1 bets on an answer, and the bets are guided by experience. The rules of the betting are intelligent: recent events and the current context have the most weight in determining an interpretation. When no recent event comes to mind, more distant memories govern." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The sophisticated allocation of attention has been honed by a long evolutionary history. Orienting and responding quickly to the gravest threats or most promising opportunities improved the chance of survival," -Daniel Kahneman 
"Mutual funds are run by highly experienced and hardworking professionals who buy and sell stocks to achieve the best possible results for their clients. Nevertheless, the evidence from more than fifty years of research is conclusive: for a large majority of fund managers, the selection of stocks is more like rolling dice than like playing poker. Typically at least two out of every three mutual funds underperform the overall market in any given year." -Daniel Kahneman 
"extreme outcomes (both high and low) are more likely to be found in small than in large samples. This explanation is not causal." -Daniel Kahneman 
"An unbiased appreciation of uncertainty is a cornerstone of rationality" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The best wines are produced when the summer is warm and dry, which makes the Bordeaux wine industry a likely beneficiary of global warming." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The sunk-cost fallacy keeps people for too long in poor jobs, unhappy marriages, and unpromising research projects. I" -Daniel Kahneman 
"We cannot hold a concept of well-being that ignores what people want" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The psychologist Paul Rozin, an expert on disgust, observed that a single cockroach will completely wreck the appeal of a bowl of cherries, but a cherry will do nothing at all for a bowl of cockroaches." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Any aspect of life to which attention is directed will loom large in a global evaluation. This is the essence of the focusing illusion, which can be described in a single sentence: Nothing in life is as important as you think it is when you are thinking about it." -Daniel Kahneman 
"people expect to have stronger emotional reactions (including regret) to an outcome that is produced by action than to the same outcome when it is produced by inaction. This" -Daniel Kahneman 
"When the question is difficult and a skilled solution is not available, intuition still has a shot: an answer may come to mind quickly--but it is not an answer to the original question." -Daniel Kahneman 
"risk-averse decision maker will choose a sure thing that is less than expected value, in effect paying a premium to avoid the uncertainty." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The core of the illusion is that we believe we understand the past, which implies that the future also should be knowable, but in fact we understand the past less than we believe we do. Know is not the only word that fosters this illusion. In common usage, the words intuition and premonition also are reserved for past thoughts that turned out to be true." -Daniel Kahneman 
"In his penetrating book The Halo Effect, Philip Rosenzweig, a business school professor based in Switzerland, shows how the demand for illusory certainty is met in two popular genres of business writing: histories of the rise (usually) and fall (occasionally) of particular individuals and companies, and analyses if differences between successful and less successful firms. He concludes that stories of success and failure consistently exaggerate the impact of leadership style and management practices on firm outcomes, and thus their message is rarely useful." -Daniel Kahneman 
"people's choices are based not on dollar values but on the psychological values of outcomes, their utilities. The psychological value of a gamble is therefore not the weighted average of its possible dollar outcomes; it is the average of the utilities of these outcomes, each weighted by its probability." -Daniel Kahneman 
"To the untrained eye,' Feller remarks, "randomness appears as regularity or tendency to cluster." -Daniel Kahneman 
"We were sufficiently similar to understand each other easily, and sufficiently different to surprise each other. We" -Daniel Kahneman 
"exists." -Daniel Kahneman 
"But your subjective experience consists largely of the story that your System 2 tells itself about what is going on. Priming phenomena arise in System 1, and you have no conscious access to them." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Problem 8 (N = 200): Imagine that you have decided to see a play and paid the admission price of $10 per ticket. As you enter the theater, you discover that you have lost the ticket. The seat was not marked, and the ticket cannot be recovered. Would you pay $10 for another ticket? Yes (46%) No (54%)   Problem 9 (N = 183): Imagine that you have decided to see a play where admission is $10 per ticket. As you enter the theater, you discover that you have lost a $10 bill.   Would you still pay $10 for a ticket for the play? Yes (88%) No (12%) The difference between the responses to the two problems is intriguing. Why are so many people unwilling to spend $10 after having lost a ticket, if they would readily spend that sum after losing an equivalent amount of cash? We attribute the difference to the topical organization of mental accounts. Going to the theater is normally viewed as a transaction in which the cost of the ticket is exchanged for the experience of seeing the play. Buying a second ticket increases the cost of seeing the play to a level that many respondents apparently find unacceptable. In contrast, the loss of the cash is not posted to the account of the play, and it affects the purchase of a ticket only by making the individual feel slightly less affluent." -Daniel Kahneman 
"When no recent event comes to mind, more distant memories govern." -Daniel Kahneman 
"and this capability is certainly not restricted to humans. Even in modern humans, System 1 takes over in emergencies and assigns total priority to self-protective actions. Imagine yourself at the wheel of a car that unexpectedly skids on a large oil slick. You will find that you have responded to the threat before you became fully conscious of it." -Daniel Kahneman 
"single cockroach will completely wreck the appeal of a bowl of cherries, but a cherry will do nothing at all for a bowl of cockroaches." -Daniel Kahneman 
"They instructed negotiators to focus their attention and search their memory for arguments against the anchor." -Daniel Kahneman 
"A budget reserve is to contractors as red meat is to lions, and they will devour it." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The difficulties of statistical thinking contribute to the main theme of Part 3, which describes a puzzling limitation of our mind: our excessive confidence in what we believe we know, and our apparent inability to acknowledge the full extent of our ignorance and the uncertainty of the world we live in. We are prone to overestimate how much we understand about the world and to underestimate the role of chance in events." -Daniel Kahneman 
"System 2 and the electrical circuits in your home both have limited capacity, but they respond differently to threatened overload. A breaker trips when the demand for current is excessive, causing all devices on that circuit to lose power at once. In contrast, the response to mental overload is selective and precise: System 2 protects the most important activity, so it receives the attention it needs; "spare capacity' is allocated second by second to other tasks. In our version of the gorilla experiment, we instructed the participants to assign priority to the digit task." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Frederick's findings suggest that the characters of our psychodrama have different "personalities.' System 1 is impulsive and intuitive; System 2 is capable of reasoning, and it is cautious, but at least for some people it is also lazy. We recognize related differences among individuals: some people are more like their System 2; others are closer to their System 1. This simple test has emerged" -Daniel Kahneman 
"A general limitation of the human mind is its imperfect ability to reconstruct past states of knowledge, or beliefs that have changed." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The main benefit of optimism is resilience in the face of setbacks." -Daniel Kahneman 
"As we have seen, rationality is generally served by broader and more comprehensive frames, and joint evaluation is obviously broader than single evaluation." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Prospect Theory: An Analysis of Decision Under Risk," -Daniel Kahneman 
"Your inability to reconstruct past beliefs will inevitably cause you to underestimate the extent to which you were surprised by past events." -Daniel Kahneman 
"People tend to assess the relative importance of issues by the ease with which they are retrieved from memory--" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Systems 1 and 2 are both active whenever we are awake. System 1 runs automatically and System 2 is normally in a comfortable low-effort mode, in which only a fraction of its capacity is engaged. System 1 continuously generates suggestions for System 2: impressions, intuitions, intentions, and feelings. If endorsed by System 2, impressions and intuitions turn into beliefs, and impulses turn into voluntary actions. When all goes smoothly, which is most of the time, System 2 adopts the suggestions of System 1 with little or no modification. You generally believe your impressions and act on your desires, and that is fine--usually. When System 1 runs into difficulty, it calls on System 2 to support more detailed and specific processing that may solve the problem of the moment. System 2 is mobilized when a question arises for which System 1 does not offer an answer, as probably happened to you when you encountered the multiplication problem 17 × 24. You can also feel a surge of conscious attention whenever you are surprised. System 2 is activated when an event is detected that violates the model of the world that System 1 maintains. In that world, lamps do not jump, cats do not bark, and gorillas do not cross basketball courts. The gorilla experiment demonstrates that some attention is needed for the surprising stimulus to be detected. Surprise then activates and orients your attention: you will stare, and you will search your memory for a story that makes sense of the surprising event. System 2 is also credited with the continuous monitoring of your own behavior--the control that keeps you polite when you are angry, and alert when you are driving at night. System 2 is mobilized to increased effort when it detects an error about to be made. Remember a time when you almost blurted out an offensive remark and note how hard you worked to restore control. In summary, most of what you (your System 2) think and do originates in your System 1, but System 2 takes over when things get difficult, and it normally has the last word." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Social psychology comes into the picture here, because the answer that a truthful CFO would offer is plainly ridiculous. A CFO who informs his colleagues that "there is a good chance that the S&P returns will be between –10% and +30%' can expect to be laughed out of the room. The wide confidence interval is a confession of ignorance, which is not socially acceptable for someone who is paid to be knowledgeable in financial matters." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Part 2 updates the study of judgment heuristics and explores a major puzzle: Why is it so difficult for us to think statistically? We easily think associatively, we think metaphorically, we think causally, but statistics requires thinking about many things at once, which is something that System 1 is not designed to do." -Daniel Kahneman 
"As you become skilled in a task, its demand for energy diminishes. Studies of the brain have shown that the pattern of activity associated with an action changes as skill increases, with fewer brain regions involved. Talent has similar effects. Highly intelligent individuals need less effort to solve the same problems, as indicated by both pupil size and brain activity." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The best we can do is a compromise: learn to recognize situations in which mistakes are likely and try harder to avoid significant mistakes when the stakes are high. The" -Daniel Kahneman 
"automatic search for causes shapes our thinking," -Daniel Kahneman 
"when System 2 is otherwise engaged, we will believe almost anything." -Daniel Kahneman 
"You felt the burden of holding much material in memory, as you needed to keep track of where you were and of where you were going, while holding on to the intermediate result." -Daniel Kahneman 
"A general "law of least effort' applies to cognitive as well as physical exertion. The law asserts that if there are several ways of achieving the same goal, people will eventually gravitate to the least demanding course of action. In the economy of action, effort is a cost, and the acquisition of skill is driven by the balance of benefits and costs. Laziness is built deep into our nature." -Daniel Kahneman 
"I don't spend a lot of time taking polls around the world to tell me what I think is the right way to act. I've just got to know how I feel' (George W. Bush, November 2002)." -Daniel Kahneman 
"I am generally not optimistic about the potential for personal control of biases, but this is an exception." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Strokes cause almost twice as many deaths as all accidents combined, but 80% of respondents judged accidental death to be more likely. Tornadoes were seen as more frequent killers than asthma, although the latter cause 20 times more deaths. Death by lightning was judged less likely than death from botulism even though it is 52 times more frequent. Death by disease is 18 times as likely as accidental death, but the two were judged about equally likely. Death by accidents was judged to be more than 300 times more likely than death by diabetes, but the true ratio is 1:4. The lesson is clear: estimates" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Intense focusing on a task can make people effectively blind, even to stimuli that" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Your muscles tensed up, your blood pressure rose, and your heart rate increased. Someone looking closely at your eyes while you tackled this problem would have seen your pupils dilate." -Daniel Kahneman 
"As you can experience, the request to retrieve and say aloud your phone number or your spouse's birthday also requires a brief but significant effort, because the entire string must be held in memory as a response is organized." -Daniel Kahneman 
"But of course the main reason that decision theorists study simple gambles is that this is what other decision theorists do. The field had a theory, expected utility theory, which was the foundation of the rational-agent model and is to this day the most important theory in the social sciences." -Daniel Kahneman 
"What came quickly to my mind was an intuition from System 1. I'll have to start over and search my memory deliberately." -Daniel Kahneman 
"President Truman famously asked for a "one-armed economist' who would take a clear stand; he was sick and tired of economists who kept saying, "On the other hand …" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Characteristics of System 1: • generates impressions, feelings, and inclinations; when endorsed by System 2 these become beliefs, attitudes, and intentions • operates automatically and quickly, with little or no effort, and no sense of voluntary control • can be programmed by System 2 to mobilize attention when a particular pattern is detected (search) • executes skilled responses and generates skilled intuitions, after adequate training • creates a coherent pattern of activated ideas in associative memory • links a sense of cognitive ease to illusions of truth, pleasant feelings, and reduced vigilance • distinguishes the surprising from the normal • infers and invents causes and intentions • neglects ambiguity and suppresses doubt • is biased to believe and confirm • exaggerates emotional consistency (halo effect) • focuses on existing evidence and ignores absent evidence (WYSIATI)• generates a limited set of basic assessments • represents sets by norms and prototypes, does not integrate• matches intensities across scales (e.g., size to loudness) • computes more than intended (mental shotgun) • sometimes substitutes an easier question for a difficult one (heuristics) • is more sensitive to changes than to states (prospect theory)* • overweights low probabilities* • shows diminishing sensitivity to quantity (psychophysics)* • responds more strongly to losses than to gains (loss aversion)* • frames decision problems narrowly, in isolation from one another*" -Daniel Kahneman 
"El psicólogo Gary Klein cuenta la historia de un equipo de bomberos que penetraron en una casa en la que la cocina estaba en llamas.7 Poco después de aplicar la manguera a la cocina, el jefe de bomberos dio un grito. «Salgamos de aquí», exclamó sin saber por qué. El suelo se hundió casi inmediatamente después de que los bomberos escaparan. Solo después de ocurrir aquello, el jefe de bomberos se dio cuenta de que el fuego había sido extrañamente silencioso y que sus orejas habían estado extrañamente calientes. Estas impresiones juntas despertaron lo que llamó un «sexto sentido del peligro». No tenía ni idea de lo que andaba mal, pero sabía que algo andaba mal. Resultó que el foco del incendio no estaba en la cocina, sino en el sótano, debajo de donde sus hombres habían estado." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Self-criticism is one of the functions of System 2." -Daniel Kahneman 
"we are statistically punished for being nice" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The public is now well aware that formulas may do better than humans in some critical decisions in the world of sports:" -Daniel Kahneman 
"teaching psychology is mostly a waste of time." -Daniel Kahneman 
"People are asked for a prediction but they substitute an evaluation of the evidence, without noticing that the question they answer is not the one they were asked. This process is guaranteed to generate predictions that are systematically biased; they completely ignore regression to the mean." -Daniel Kahneman 
"I never met Meehl, but he was one of my heroes from the time I read his Clinical vs. Statistical Prediction: A Theoretical Analysis and a Review of the Evidence." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Restoring the level of available sugar in the brain had prevented the deterioration of performance." -Daniel Kahneman 
"If the observers share a bias, the aggregation of judgments will not reduce it. Allowing the observers to influence each other effectively reduces the size of the sample, and with it the precision of the group estimate." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Regret, frustration, and self-satisfaction can also be affected by framing (Kahneman & Tversky, 1982). If" -Daniel Kahneman 
"luck plays a large role in every story of success;" -Daniel Kahneman 
"powerful WYSIATI rule. You cannot help dealing with the limited information you have as if it were all there is to know. You build the best possible story from the information available to you, and if it is a good story, you believe it. Paradoxically, it is easier to construct a coherent story when you know little, when there are fewer pieces to fit into the puzzle. Our comforting conviction that the world makes sense rests on a secure foundation: our almost unlimited ability to ignore our ignorance." -Daniel Kahneman 
"There was no particular reason to do so, but your mind automatically assumed a temporal sequence and a causal connection between the words bananas and vomit, forming a sketchy scenario in which bananas caused the sickness." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Prospect theory turned out to be the most significant work we ever did, and our article is among the most often cited in the social sciences." -Daniel Kahneman 
"In a famous study, spouses were asked, "How large was your personal contribution to keeping the place tidy, in percentages?' They also answered similar questions about "taking out the garbage,' "initiating social engagements,' etc. Would the self-estimated contributions add up to 100%, or more, or less? As expected, the self-assessed contributions added up to more than 100%. The explanation is a simple availability bias: both spouses remember their own individual efforts and contributions much more clearly than those of the other, and the difference in availability leads to a difference in judged frequency. The bias is not necessarily self-serving: spouses also overestimated their contribution to causing quarrels, although to a smaller extent than their contributions to more desirable outcomes. The same bias contributes to the common observation that many members of a collaborative team feel they have done more than their share and also feel that the others are not adequately grateful for their individual contributions." -Daniel Kahneman 
"the common admonition to "act calm and kind regardless of how you feel' is very good advice: you are likely to be rewarded by actually feeling calm and kind." -Daniel Kahneman 
"our almost unlimited ability to ignore our ignorance." -Daniel Kahneman 
"People who experience flow describe it as "a state of effortless concentration so deep that they lose their sense of time, of themselves, of their problems,' and their descriptions of the joy of that state are so compelling that Csikszentmihalyi has called it an "optimal experience." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Because you have little direct knowledge of what goes on in your mind, you will never know that you might have made a different judgment or reached a different decision under very slightly different circumstances. Formulas do not suffer from such problems. Given the same input, they always return the same answer." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Stanovich argues that high intelligence does not make people immune to biases. Another ability is involved, which he labels rationality. Stanovich's concept of a rational person is similar to what I earlier labeled "engaged.' The core of his argument is that rationality should be distinguished from intelligence. In his view, superficial or "lazy' thinking is a flaw in the reflective mind, a failure of rationality." -Daniel Kahneman 
"System 1 has more influence on behavior when System 2 is busy, and it has a sweet tooth. People who are cognitively busy are also more likely to make selfish choices, use sexist language, and make superficial judgments in social situations. Memorizing and repeating digits loosens the hold of System 2 on behavior, but of course cognitive load is not the only cause of weakened self-control. A few drinks have the same effect, as does a sleepless night. The self-control of morning people is impaired at night; the reverse is true of night people. Too much concern about how well one is doing in a task sometimes disrupts performance by loading short-term memory with pointless anxious thoughts. The conclusion is straightforward: self-control requires attention and effort. Another way of saying this is that controlling thoughts and behaviors is one of the tasks that System 2 performs." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The hot hand is entirely in the eye of the beholders, who are consistently too quick to perceive order and causality in randomness." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Amos and I never worked together on this topic, though we often discussed it. Our views sometimes differed, especially when the discussion touched on the role of memory in life, which Amos considered more important than I did – perhaps because his memory was so much better than mine. In his chapter with Dale Griffin (Chapter 39), Amos described life as the gradual accumulation of an endowment of memories, which is not at all the view I take (Chapter 37). One of my enduring regrets is that we never resolved the difference by studying it together. We would have come closer to "doing it right,' and it would have been a joy. Daniel Kahneman Princeton August 1999" -Daniel Kahneman 
"System 2 is activated when an event is detected that violates the model of the world that System 1 maintains." -Daniel Kahneman 
"A crucial capability of System 2 is the adoption of "task sets': it can program memory to obey an instruction that overrides habitual responses. Consider the following: Count all occurrences of the letter f in this page. This is not a task you have ever performed before and it will not come naturally to you, but your System 2 can take it on. It will be effortful to set yourself up for this exercise, and effortful to carry it out, though you will surely improve with practice. Psychologists speak of "executive control' to describe the adoption and termination of task sets," -Daniel Kahneman 
"During the first five years we spent looking at how people make decisions, we established a dozen facts about choices between risky options. Several of these facts were in flat contradiction to expected utility theory. Some had been observed before, a few were new. Then we constructed a theory that modified expected utility theory just enough to explain our collection of observations. That was prospect theory." -Daniel Kahneman 
"planning fallacy" -Daniel Kahneman 
"And every human being has had the experience of not telling someone to go to hell." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Los datos sugieren que el optimismo es algo muy extendido, pertinaz y costoso." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The most important development in the field since Meehl's original work is Robyn Dawes's famous article "The Robust Beauty of Improper Linear Models in Decision Making." -Daniel Kahneman 
"System 2 is also credited with the continuous monitoring of your own behavior--the control that keeps you polite when you are angry, and alert when you are driving at night." -Daniel Kahneman 
"System 1 is designed to jump to conclusions from little evidence--and it is not designed to know the size of its jumps. Because of WYSIATI, only the evidence at hand counts. Because of confidence by coherence, the subjective confidence we have in our opinions reflects the coherence of the story that System 1 and System 2 have constructed. The amount of evidence and its quality do not count for much, because poor evidence can make a very good story." -Daniel Kahneman 
"One of the significant discoveries of cognitive psychologists in recent decades is that switching from one task to another is effortful, especially under time pressure. The need for rapid switching is one of the reasons that Add-3 and mental multiplication are so difficult." -Daniel Kahneman 
"intuitive heuristics: when faced with a difficult question, we often answer an easier one instead, usually without noticing the substitution." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Sometimes scientific progress leaves us more puzzled than we were before." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The important conclusion from this research is that an algorithm that is constructed on the back of an envelope is often good enough to compete with an optimally weighted formula, and certainly good enough to outdo expert judgment." -Daniel Kahneman 
"For an example, here is a simple puzzle. Do not try to solve it but listen to your intuition: A bat and ball cost $1.10. The bat costs one dollar more than the ball. How much does the ball cost? A number came to your mind. The number, of course, is 10: 10¢. The distinctive mark of this easy puzzle is that it evokes an answer that is intuitive, appealing, and wrong. Do the math, and you will see. If the ball costs 10¢, then the total cost will be $1.20 (10¢ for the ball and $1.10 for the bat), not $1.10. The correct answer is 5¢. It is safe to assume that the intuitive answer also came to the mind of those who ended up with the correct number--they somehow managed to resist the intuition." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Now that you have measured the lines, you--your System 2, the conscious being you call "I'--have a new belief: you know that the lines are equally long. If asked about their length, you will say what you know. But you still see the bottom line as longer. You have chosen to believe the measurement, but you cannot prevent System 1 from doing its thing; you cannot decide to see the lines as equal, although you know they are. To resist the illusion, there is only one thing you can do: you must learn to mistrust your impressions of the length of lines when fins are attached to them." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The principle of independent judgments (and decorrelated errors) has immediate applications for the conduct of meetings, an activity in which executives in organizations spend a great deal of their working days. A simple rule can help: before an issue is discussed, all members of the committee should be asked to write a very brief summary of their position. This procedure makes good use of the value of the diversity of knowledge and opinion in the group. The standard practice of open discussion gives too much weight to the opinions of those who speak early and assertively, causing others to line up behind them. What" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Here we encounter a new aptitude of System 1. An underlying scale of intensity allows matching across diverse dimensions. If crimes were colors, murder would be a deeper shade of red than theft. If crimes were expressed as music, mass murder would be played fortissimo while accumulating unpaid parking tickets would be a faint pianissimo." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The defining feature of System 2, in this story, is that its operations are effortful, and one of its main characteristics is laziness, a reluctance to invest more effort than is strictly necessary. As" -Daniel Kahneman 
"To perform the Add-3 task, you must hold several digits in your working memory at the same time, associating each with a particular operation: some digits are in the queue to be transformed, one is in the process of transformation, and others, already transformed, are retained for reporting." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Most of us view the world as more benign than it really is, our own attributes as more favorable than they truly are, and the goals we adopt as more achievable than they are likely to be. We also tend to exaggerate our ability to forecast the future, which fosters optimistic overconfidence." -Daniel Kahneman 
"A Random Walk Down Wall Street" -Daniel Kahneman 
"In another paper, titled "Boys Will Be Boys,' they showed that men acted on their useless ideas significantly more often than women, and that as a result women achieved better investment results than men." -Daniel Kahneman 
"do not simply trust intuitive judgment--your own or that of others--but do not dismiss it, either." -Daniel Kahneman 
"In the economy of action, effort is a cost, and the acquisition of skill is driven by the balance of benefits and costs. Laziness is built deep into our nature." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The costs are worth paying to achieve a better society, but denying that the costs exist, while satisfying to the soul and politically correct, is not scientifically defensible." -Daniel Kahneman 
"automatic functions of System 1, but they depend on the allocation of some attention to the relevant stimulus. The authors note that the most remarkable observation of their study is that people find its results very surprising. Indeed, the viewers who fail to see the gorilla are initially sure that it was not there--they cannot imagine missing such a striking event. The gorilla study illustrates two important facts about our minds: we can be blind to the obvious, and we are also blind to our blindness." -Daniel Kahneman 
"are less confident in a choice when they are asked to produce more arguments to support it" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The best we can do is a compromise: learn to recognize situations in which mistakes are likely and try harder to avoid significant mistakes when the stakes are high. The premise of this book is that it is easier to recognize other people's mistakes than our own." -Daniel Kahneman 
"FAST AND SLOW" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The principle of independent judgments (and decorrelated errors) has immediate applications for the conduct of meetings, an activity in which executives in organizations spend a great deal of their working days. A simple rule can help: before an issue is discussed, all members of the committee should be asked to write a very brief summary of their position. This procedure makes good use of the value of the diversity of knowledge and opinion in the group. The standard practice of open discussion gives too much weight to the opinions of those who speak early and assertively, causing others to line up behind them." -Daniel Kahneman 
"even compelling causal statistics will not change long-held beliefs or beliefs rooted in personal experience." -Daniel Kahneman 
"We had progressed from "completely useless' to "moderately useful." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Modern tests of working memory require the individual to switch repeatedly between two demanding tasks, retaining the results of one operation while performing the other. People who do well on these tests tend to do well on tests of general intelligence. However, the ability to control attention is not simply a measure of intelligence; measures of efficiency in the control of attention predict performance of air traffic controllers and of Israeli Air Force pilots beyond the effects of intelligence." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Firmly resolve that you will hire the candidate whose final score is the highest, even if there is another one whom you like better" -Daniel Kahneman 
"We are prone to overestimate how much we understand about the world and to underestimate the role of chance in events. Overconfidence is fed by the illusory certainty of hindsight." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The tasks that we studied varied considerably in their effects on the pupil. At baseline, our subjects were awake, aware, and ready to engage in a task--probably at a higher level of arousal and cognitive readiness than usual." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Let's not fall for the outcome bias. This was a stupid decision even though it worked out well." -Daniel Kahneman 
"You are more likely to learn something by finding surprises in your own behavior" -Daniel Kahneman 
"A vast amount of research offers a promise: you are much more likely to find the best candidate if you use this procedure than if you do what people normally do in such situations, which is to go into the interview unprepared and to make choices by an overall intuitive judgment such as "I looked into his eyes and liked what I saw." -Daniel Kahneman 
"But this was the army. Useful or not, there was a routine to be followed and orders to be obeyed." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Time pressure is another driver of effort. As you carried out the Add-3 exercise, the rush was imposed in part by the metronome and in part by the load on memory. Like a juggler with several balls in the air, you cannot afford to slow down; the rate at which material decays in memory forces the pace, driving you to refresh and rehearse information before it is lost. Any task that requires you to keep several ideas in mind at the same time has the same hurried character." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The halo effect helps keep explanatory narratives simple and coherent by exaggerating the consistency of evaluations: good people do only good things and bad people are all bad. The statement "Hitler loved dogs and little children' is shocking no matter how many times you hear it, because any trace of kindness in someone so evil violates the expectations set up by the halo effect. Inconsistencies reduce the ease of our thoughts and the clarity of our feelings. A compelling narrative fosters an illusion of inevitability." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Conditions for Intuitive Expertise: A Failure to Disagree." -Daniel Kahneman 
"we pay more attention to the content of messages than to information about their reliability," -Daniel Kahneman 
"A business commentator who correctly announces that "the business did better this year because it had done poorly last year' is likely to have a short tenure on the air." -Daniel Kahneman 
"When action is needed, optimism, even of the mildly delusional variety, may be a good thing." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The explanatory stories that people find compelling are simple; are concrete rather than abstract; assign a larger role to talent, stupidity, and intentions than to luck; and focus on a few striking events that happened rather than on the countless events that failed to happen. Any recent salient event is a candidate to become the kernel of a causal narrative." -Daniel Kahneman 
"most effortful forms of slow thinking are those that require you to think fast." -Daniel Kahneman 
"People voted for someone who looked strong and decisive without any other reason to believe that he was." -Daniel Kahneman 
"many people are overconfident, prone to place too much faith in their intuitions. They" -Daniel Kahneman 
"We were told that a strong attraction to a patient with a repeated history of failed treatment is a danger sign--like the fins on the parallel lines. It is an illusion--a cognitive illusion--and I (System 2) was taught how to recognize it and advised not to believe it or act on it. The question that is most often asked" -Daniel Kahneman 
"We must allow for that uncertainty in our thinking." -Daniel Kahneman 
"In everyday speech, we call people reasonable if it is possible to reason with them, if their beliefs are generally in tune with reality, and if their preferences are in line with their interests and their values. The" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The main function of System 1 is to maintain and update a model of your personal world, which represents what is normal in it. The model is constructed by associations that link ideas of circumstances, events, actions, and outcomes that co-occur with some regularity, either at the same time or within a relatively short interval. As these links are formed and strengthened, the pattern of associated ideas comes to represent the structure of events in your life, and it determines your interpretation of the present as well as your expectations of the future." -Daniel Kahneman 
"People who are cognitively busy are also more likely to make selfish choices, use sexist language, and make superficial judgments in social situations. Memorizing and repeating digits loosens the hold of System 2 on behavior, but of course cognitive load is not the only cause of weakened self-control. A few drinks have the same effect, as does a sleepless night. The self-control of morning people is impaired at night; the reverse is true of night people. Too much concern about how well one is doing in a task sometimes disrupts performance by loading short-term memory with pointless anxious thoughts. The conclusion is straightforward: self-control requires attention and effort. Another way of saying this is that controlling thoughts and behaviors is one of the tasks that System 2 performs." -Daniel Kahneman 
"was surprised to see that the pupil remained small and did not noticeably dilate as she talked and listened. Unlike the tasks that we were studying, the mundane conversation apparently demanded little or no effort--no more than retaining two or three digits." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Valid intuitions develop when experts have learned to recognize familiar elements in a new situation and to act in a manner that is appropriate to it." -Daniel Kahneman 
"A reliable way to make people believe in falsehoods is frequent repetition, because familiarity is not easily distinguished from truth. Authoritarian" -Daniel Kahneman 
"an objective observer is more likely to detect our errors than we are" -Daniel Kahneman 
"mental life--today I would speak of the life of System 2--is normally conducted at the pace of a comfortable walk, sometimes interrupted by episodes of jogging and on rare occasions by a frantic sprint. The Add-1 and Add-3 exercises are sprints, and casual chatting is a stroll." -Daniel Kahneman 
"dilate. Your pupils contracted back to normal size as soon as" -Daniel Kahneman 
"We normally avoid mental overload by dividing our tasks into multiple easy steps, committing intermediate results to long-term memory or to paper rather than to an easily overloaded working memory." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Subjects' unwillingness to deduce the particular from the general was matched only by their willingness to infer the general from the particular." -Daniel Kahneman 
"WYSIATI, which stands for what you see is all there is. System 1 is radically insensitive to both the quality and the quantity of the information that gives rise to impressions and intuitions." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The objections to the principle of moderating intuitive predictions must be taken seriously, because absence of bias is not always what matters most. A preference for unbiased predictions is justified if all errors of prediction are treated alike, regardless of their direction. But there are situations in which one type of error is much worse than another. When a venture capitalist looks for "the next big thing,' the risk of missing the next Google or Facebook is far more important than the risk of making a modest investment in a start-up that ultimately fails. The goal of venture capitalists is to call the extreme cases correctly, even at the cost of overestimating the prospects of many other ventures." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The nervous system consumes more glucose than most other parts of the body," -Daniel Kahneman 
"is also the case that depressed children who spend some time standing on their head or hug a cat for twenty minutes a day will also show improvement. Most readers of such headlines will automatically infer that the energy drink or the cat hugging caused an improvement, but this conclusion is completely unjustified. Depressed" -Daniel Kahneman 
"picture of" -Daniel Kahneman 
"In a discussion of flight training, experienced instructors noted that praise for an exceptionally smooth landing is typically followed by a poorer landing on the next try, while harsh criticism after a rough landing is usually followed by an improvement on the next try. The instructors concluded that verbal rewards are detrimental to learning, while verbal punishments are beneficial, contrary to accepted psychological doctrine. This conclusion is unwarranted because of the presence of regression toward the mean. As in other cases of repeated examination, an improvement will usually follow a poor performance and a deterioration will usually follow an outstanding performance, even if the instructor does not respond to the trainee's achievement on the first attempt. Because the instructors had praised their trainees after good landings and admonished them after poor ones, they reached the erroneous and potentially harmful conclusion that punishment is more effective than reward." -Daniel Kahneman 
"This is the essence of the focusing illusion, which can be described in a single sentence: Nothing in life is as important as you think it is when you are thinking about it." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Good stories provide a simple and coherent account of people's actions and intentions. You are always ready to interpret behavior as a manifestation of general propensities and personality traits--causes that you can readily match to effects. The halo effect discussed earlier contributes to coherence, because it inclines us to match our view of all the qualities of a person to our judgment of one attribute that is particularly significant." -Daniel Kahneman 
"If an event had actually occurred, people exaggerated the probability that they had assigned to it earlier." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Some stereotypes are perniciously wrong, and hostile stereotyping can have dreadful consequences, but the psychological facts cannot be avoided: stereotypes, both correct and false, are how we think of categories." -Daniel Kahneman 
"In an article titled "Consequences of Erudite Vernacular Utilized Irrespective of Necessity: Problems with Using Long Words Needlessly,' he showed that couching familiar ideas in pretentious language is taken as a sign of poor intelligence and low credibility" -Daniel Kahneman 
"even compelling causal statistics will not change long-held beliefs or beliefs rooted in personal experience. On the other hand, surprising individual cases have a powerful impact and are a more effective tool for teaching psychology because the incongruity must be resolved and embedded in a causal story." -Daniel Kahneman 
"In the absence of a competing intuition, logic prevails." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Further experiments showed that people were driven to overstate the accuracy not only of their original predictions but also of those made by others." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Moses illusion." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Many of us spontaneously anticipate how friends and colleagues will evaluate our choices; the quality and content of these anticipated judgments therefore matters. The expectation of intelligent gossip is a powerful motive for serious self-criticism" -Daniel Kahneman 
"We know that people can maintain an unshakeable faith in any proposition, however absurd, when they are sustained by a community of like-minded believers." -Daniel Kahneman 
"common gestures can also unconsciously influence our thoughts and feelings." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Facts that challenge basic assumptions-and thereby threaten people's livelihood and self-esteem-are simply not absorbed. The mind does not digest them." -Daniel Kahneman 
"What makes some cognitive operations more demanding and effortful than others? What outcomes must we purchase in the currency of attention? What can System 2 do that System 1 cannot? We now have tentative answers to these questions." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Indeed, we pay people quite well to provide interesting explanations of regression effects." -Daniel Kahneman 
"I propose a simple account of how we generate intuitive opinions on complex matters. If a satisfactory answer to a hard question is not found quickly, System 1 will find a related question that is easier and will answer it. I call the operation of answering one question in place of another substitution. I also adopt the following terms:" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The aphorisms were judged more insightful when they rhymed than when they did not. Finally, if you quote a source, choose one with a name that is easy to pronounce." -Daniel Kahneman 
"System 1 is much better at dealing with individuals than categories." -Daniel Kahneman 
"On" -Daniel Kahneman 
"you will often find that knowing little makes it easier to fit everything you know into a coherent pattern. WYSIATI facilitates the achievement of coherence and of the cognitive ease that causes us to accept a statement as true." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Framing effects: Different ways of presenting the same information often evoke different emotions. The statement that "the odds of survival one month after surgery are 90%' is more reassuring than the equivalent statement that "mortality within one month of surgery is 10%.' Similarly, cold" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Facing a choice, we gave up rationality rather than give up the enterprise." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The mental work that produces impressions, intuitions, and many decisions goes on in silence in our mind." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The principle of independent judgments (and decorrelated errors) has immediate applications for the conduct of meetings, an activity in which executives in organizations spend a great deal of their working days." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Hindsight bias has pernicious effects on the evaluations of decision makers. It leads observers to assess the quality of a decision not by whether the process was sound but by whether its outcome was good or bad." -Daniel Kahneman 
"We were forecasting based on the information in front of us--WYSIATI--but the chapters we wrote first were probably easier than others, and our commitment to the project was probably then at its peak. But the main problem was that we failed to allow for what Donald Rumsfeld famously called the "unknown unknowns." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Richard Thaler tells of a discussion about decision making he had with the top managers of the 25 divisions of a large company. He asked them to consider a risky option in which, with equal probabilities, they could lose a large amount of the capital they controlled or earn double that amount. None of the executives was willing to take such a dangerous gamble. Thaler then turned to the CEO of the company, who was also present, and asked for his opinion. Without hesitation, the CEO answered, "I would like all of them to accept their risks.' In the context of that conversation, it was natural for the CEO to adopt a broad frame that encompassed all 25 bets. Like Sam facing 100 coin tosses, he could count on statistical aggregation to mitigate the overall risk." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Memories are all we get to keep from our experience of living. The only perspective that we can adopt as we think about our lives is therefore that of the remembering self." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The increase in man's power over his environment has not been accompanied by a concomitant improvement of his ability to make rational use of that power" -Daniel Kahneman 
"While writing the article that reported these findings, Amos and I discovered that we enjoyed working together." -Daniel Kahneman 
"success = talent + luck great success = a little more talent + a lot of luck" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The halo effect helps keep explanatory narratives simple and coherent by exaggerating the consistency of evaluations: good people do only good things and bad people are all bad." -Daniel Kahneman 
"CEOs do influence performance, but the effects are much smaller than a reading of the business press suggests." -Daniel Kahneman 
"A recurrent theme of this book is that luck plays a large role in every story of success; it is almost always easy to identify a small change in the story that would have turned a remarkable achievement into a mediocre outcome." -Daniel Kahneman 
"One reason for the low correlations between individuals' circumstances and their satisfaction with life is that both experienced happiness and life satisfaction are largely determined by the genetics of temperament. A disposition for well-being is as heritable as height or intelligence, as demonstrated by studies of twins separated at birth." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Leaders who have been lucky are never punished for having taken too much risk. Instead, they are believed to have had the flair and foresight to anticipate success, and the sensible people who doubted them are seen in hindsight as mediocre, timid, and weak." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Every significant choice we make in life comes with some uncertainty" -Daniel Kahneman 
"All this is very good advice, but we should not get carried away. High-quality paper, bright colors, and rhyming or simple language will not be much help if your message is obviously nonsensical, or if it contradicts facts that your audience knows to be true. The psychologists who do these experiments do not believe that people are stupid or infinitely gullible." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The answer to this question may surprise you, but it is straightforward: you get pleasure (or displeasure) from your car when you think about your car, which is probably not very often." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The general theme of these findings is that the idea of money primes individualism: a reluctance to be involved with others, to depend on others, or to accept demands from others." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The main benefit of optimism is resilience in the face of setback." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Everything makes sense in hindsight." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Bernoulli's model lacks the idea of a reference point, expected utility theory does not represent the obvious fact that the outcome that is good for Anthony is bad for Betty. His model could explain Anthony's risk aversion, but it cannot explain Betty's risk-seeking preference for the gamble, a behavior that is often observed in entrepreneurs and in generals when all their options are bad." -Daniel Kahneman 
"You know you have made a theoretical advance when you can no longer reconstruct why you failed for so long to see the obvious. Still, it took us years to explore the implications of thinking about outcomes as gains and losses." -Daniel Kahneman 
"losses evokes stronger negative feelings than costs." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Merely reminding people of a time when they had power increases their apparent trust in their own intuition." -Daniel Kahneman 
"We are prone to overestimate how much we understand about the world and to underestimate the role of chance in events. Overconfidence" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Jeremy Bentham opened his Introduction to the Principles of Morals and Legislation with the famous sentence "Nature has placed mankind under the governance of two sovereign masters, pain and pleasure. It is for them alone to point out what we ought to do, as well as to determine what we shall do." -Daniel Kahneman 
"but the chapters we wrote first were probably easier than others," -Daniel Kahneman 
"theory-induced blindness: once you have accepted a theory and used it as a tool in your thinking, it is extraordinarily difficult to notice its flaws." -Daniel Kahneman 
"There is one thing you can do when you have doubts about the quality of the evidence: let your judgments of probability stay close to the base rate. Don't expect this exercise of discipline to be easy--it requires a significant effort of self-monitoring and self-control." -Daniel Kahneman 
"the influencing of an action by the idea--is known as the ideomotor effect." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Intelligence is not only the ability to reason; it is also the ability to find relevant material in memory and to deploy attention when needed. Memory function is an attribute of System 1. However," -Daniel Kahneman 
"The sense-making machinery of System 1 makes us see the world as more tidy, simple, predictable, and coherent than it really is. The illusion that one has understood the past feeds the further illusion that one can predict and control the future." -Daniel Kahneman 
"We are confident when the story we tell ourselves comes easily to mind, with no contradiction and no competing scenario. But ease and coherence do not guarantee that a belief held with confidence is true." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Effort is required to maintain simultaneously in memory several ideas that require separate actions, or that need to be combined according to a rule--rehearsing your shopping list as you enter the supermarket, choosing between the fish and the veal at a restaurant, or combining a surprising result from a survey with the information that the sample was small, for example. System 2 is the only one that can follow rules, compare objects on several attributes, and make deliberate choices between options. The automatic System 1 does not have these capabilities. System 1 detects simple relations ("they are all alike,' "the son is much taller than the father') and excels at integrating information about one thing, but it does not deal with multiple distinct topics at once, nor is it adept at using purely statistical information." -Daniel Kahneman 
"It's a wonderful thing to be optimistic. It keeps you healthy and it keeps you resilient." -Daniel Kahneman 
"If you come upon an observation that does not seem to fit the model, you assume that there must be a perfectly good explanation that you are somehow missing. You give the theory the benefit of the doubt, trusting the community of experts who have accepted it." -Daniel Kahneman 
"when faced with a difficult question, we often answer an easier one instead, usually without noticing the substitution." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Cognitive strain, whatever its source, mobilizes System 2, which is more likely to reject the intuitive answer suggested by System 1." -Daniel Kahneman 
"understanding a statement must begin with an attempt to believe it: you must first know what the idea would mean if it were true." -Daniel Kahneman 
"She has no evidence for saying that the firm is badly managed. All she knows is that its stock has gone down. This is an outcome bias, part hindsight and part halo effect.' "Let's not fall for the outcome bias. This was a stupid decision even though it worked out well." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The interaction of the two systems is a recurrent theme of the book, and a brief synopsis of the plot is in order." -Daniel Kahneman 
"She is a hedgehog. She has a theory that explains everything, and it gives her the illusion that she understands the world." -Daniel Kahneman 
"A basic rule of fairness, we found, is that the exploitation of market power to impose losses on others is unacceptable. The" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The exaggerated faith in small samples is only one example of a more general illusion--we pay more attention to the content of messages than to information about their reliability, and as a result end up with a view of the world around us that is simpler and more coherent than the data justify." -Daniel Kahneman 
"before an issue is discussed, all members of the committee should be asked to write a very brief summary of their position. This procedure makes good use of the value of the diversity of knowledge and opinion in the group. The standard practice of open discussion gives too much weight to the opinions of those who speak early and assertively, causing others to line up behind them." -Daniel Kahneman 
"System 1 represents sets by averages, norms, and prototypes, not by sums. Each" -Daniel Kahneman 
"I propose a simple account of how we generate intuitive opinions on complex matters. If a satisfactory answer to a hard question is not found quickly, System 1 will find a related question that is easier and will answer it. I call the operation of answering one question in place of another substitution." -Daniel Kahneman 
"for a large majority of fund managers, the selection of stocks is more like rolling dice than like playing poker. Typically at least two out of every three mutual funds underperform the overall market in any given year." -Daniel Kahneman 
"WYSIATI--what you see is all there is." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Expert intuition strikes us as magical, but it is not. Indeed, each of us performs feats of intuitive expertise many times each day." -Daniel Kahneman 
"If you can't solve a problem, then there is an easier problem you can solve: find it.' P" -Daniel Kahneman 
"rationality should be distinguished from intelligence. In his view, superficial or "lazy' thinking is a flaw in the reflective mind, a failure of rationality." -Daniel Kahneman 
"anchoring effect. It occurs when people consider a particular value for an unknown quantity before estimating that quantity" -Daniel Kahneman 
"System 1 will detect that a person described as "a meek and tidy soul, with a need for order and structure, and a passion for detail' resembles a caricature librarian, but combining this intuition with knowledge about the small number of librarians is a task that only System 2 can perform--if System 2 knows how to do so, which is true of few people." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Jumping to conclusions is efficient if the conclusions are likely to be correct and the costs of an occasional mistake acceptable, and if the jump saves much time and effort. Jumping to conclusions is risky when the situation is unfamiliar, the stakes are high, and there is no time to collect more information. These are the circumstances in which intuitive errors are probable, which may be prevented by a deliberate intervention of System 2." -Daniel Kahneman 
"it is clear that for the large majority of individual investors, taking a shower and doing nothing would have been a better policy than implementing the ideas that came to their minds. Later research by Odean and his colleague Brad Barber supported this conclusion. In a paper titled "Trading Is Hazardous to Your Wealth,' they showed that, on average, the most active traders had the poorest results, while the investors who traded the least earned the highest returns. In another paper, titled "Boys Will Be Boys,' they showed that men acted on their useless ideas significantly more often than women, and that as a result women achieved better investment results than men." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The explanation is a simple availability bias: both spouses remember their own individual efforts and contributions much more clearly than those of the other, and the difference in availability leads to a difference in judged frequency. The" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The Princeton economist and wine lover Orley Ashenfelter has offered a compelling demonstration of the power of simple statistics to outdo world-renowned experts. Ashenfelter wanted to predict the future value of fine Bordeaux wines from information available in the year they are made. The question is important because fine wines take years to reach their peak quality, and the prices of mature wines from the same vineyard vary dramatically across different vintages; bottles filled only twelve months apart can differ in value by a factor of 10 or more. An ability to forecast future prices is of substantial value, because investors buy wine, like art, in the anticipation that its value will appreciate. It is generally agreed that the effect of vintage can be due only to variations in the weather during the grape-growing season. The best wines are produced when the summer is warm and dry, which makes the Bordeaux wine industry a likely beneficiary of global warming. The industry is also helped by wet springs, which increase quantity without much effect on quality. Ashenfelter converted that conventional knowledge into a statistical formula that predicts the price of a wine--for a particular property and at a particular age--by three features of the weather: the average temperature over the summer growing season, the amount of rain at harvest-time, and the total rainfall during the previous winter. His formula provides accurate price forecasts years and even decades into the future. Indeed, his formula forecasts future prices much more accurately than the current prices of young wines do. This new example of a "Meehl pattern' challenges the abilities of the experts whose opinions help shape the early price. It also challenges economic theory, according to which prices should reflect all the available information, including the weather. Ashenfelter's formula is extremely accurate--the correlation between his predictions and actual prices is above .90." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Substituting one question for another can be a good strategy for solving difficult problems, and George Pólya included substitution in his classic How to Solve It: "If you can't solve a problem, then there is an easier problem you can solve: find it." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The reason you like the idea of gaining $100 and dislike the idea of losing $100 is not that these amounts change your wealth. You just like winning and dislike losing--and you almost certainly dislike losing more than you like winning." -Daniel Kahneman 
"people can maintain an unshakable faith in any proposition, however absurd, when they are sustained by a community of like-minded believers." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Any number that you are asked to consider as a possible solution to an estimation problem will induce an anchoring effect." -Daniel Kahneman 
"skill is much more difficult to acquire by sheer experience because of the long delay between actions and their noticeable outcomes. Whether professionals have a chance to develop intuitive expertise depends essentially on the quality and speed of feedback, as well as on sufficient opportunity to practice." -Daniel Kahneman 
"We found that American women spent about 19% of the time in an unpleasant state, somewhat higher than French women (16%) or Danish women (14%)." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The proof that you truly understand a pattern of behavior is that you know how to reverse it." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The comparison of firms that have been more or less successful is to a significant extent a comparison between firms that have been more or less lucky." -Daniel Kahneman 
"tired and hungry judges tend to fall back on the easier default position of denying requests for parole." -Daniel Kahneman 
"time meet a patient who shares a disturbing tale of multiple mistakes in his previous treatment. He has been seen by several clinicians, and" -Daniel Kahneman 
"I had stumbled onto a significant fact of the human condition: the feedback to which life exposes us is perverse. Because we tend to be nice to other people when they please us and nasty when they do not, we are statistically punished for being nice and rewarded for being nasty." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Studies of the brain have shown that the pattern of activity associated with an action changes as skill increases, with fewer brain regions involved. Talent has similar effects. Highly intelligent individuals need less effort to solve the same problems, as indicated by both pupil size and brain activity. A" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Psychology has come a long way." -Daniel Kahneman 
"you often have answers to questions that you do not completely understand, relying on evidence that you can neither explain nor defend." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Knowing the importance of luck, you should be particularly suspicious when highly consistent patterns emerge from the comparison of successful and less successful firms. In the presence of randomness, regular patterns can only be mirages." -Daniel Kahneman 
"the likelihood that something will go wrong in a big project is high." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Confusing experience with the memory of it is a compelling cognitive illusion--and it is the substitution that makes us believe a past experience can be ruined." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The danger is increasingly exaggerated as the media compete for attention-grabbing headlines. Scientists and others who try to dampen the increasing fear and revulsion attract little attention, most of it hostile: anyone who claims that the danger is overstated is suspected of association with a "heinous cover-up." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Two different mechanisms produce anchoring effects--one for each system. There is a form of anchoring that occurs in a deliberate process of adjustment, an operation of System 2. And there is anchoring that occurs by a priming effect, an automatic manifestation of System 1." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Rationality is logical coherence--reasonable or not." -Daniel Kahneman 
"the idea of money primes individualism: a reluctance to be involved with others, to depend on others, or to accept demands from others. The" -Daniel Kahneman 
"One of the best-known studies of availability suggests that awareness of your own biases can contribute to peace in marriages, and probably in other joint projects." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Intuition is nothing more and nothing less than recognition." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Risk' does not exist "out there,' independent of our minds and culture, waiting to be measured. Human beings have invented the concept of "risk' to help them understand and cope with the dangers and uncertainties of life. Although these dangers are real, there is no such thing as "real risk' or "objective risk." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Your political preference determines the arguments that you find compelling. If you like the current health policy, you believe its benefits are substantial and its costs more manageable than the costs of alternatives. If you are a hawk in your attitude toward other nations, you probably think they are relatively weak and likely to submit to your country's will." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Substituting one question for another can be a good strategy for solving difficult problems, and George Pólya included substitution in his classic How to Solve It: "If you can't solve a problem, then there is an easier problem you can solve: find it.' P" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Grateful acknowledgment is made for permission to reprint the following images: Image on page 19 courtesy of Paul Ekman Group." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The halo effect adds the final touches, lending an aura of invincibility to the heroes of the story." -Daniel Kahneman 
"But the cadet was probably just lucky on that particular attempt and therefore likely to deteriorate regardless of whether or not he was praised. Similarly, the instructor would shout into a cadet's earphones only when the cadet's performance was unusually bad and therefore likely to improve regardless of what the instructor did. The instructor had attached a causal interpretation to the inevitable fluctuations of a random process." -Daniel Kahneman 
"many people are overconfident, prone to place too much faith in their intuitions. They apparently find cognitive effort at least mildly unpleasant and avoid it as much as possible." -Daniel Kahneman 
"A crucial capability of System 2 is the adoption of "task sets': it can program memory to obey an instruction that overrides habitual responses. Consider the following: Count all occurrences of the letter f in this page. This is not a task you have ever performed before and it will not come naturally to you, but your System 2 can take it on. It will be effortful to set yourself up for this exercise, and effortful to carry it out, though you will surely improve with practice. Psychologists speak of "executive control' to describe the adoption and termination of task sets, and neuroscientists have identified the main regions of the brain that serve the executive function. One of these regions is involved whenever a conflict must be resolved. Another is the prefrontal area of the brain, a region that is substantially more developed in humans than in other primates, and is involved in operations that we associate with intelligence." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Subjects' unwillingness to deduce the particular from the general was matched only by their willingness to infer the general from the particular. This is a profoundly important conclusion. People who are taught surprising statistical facts about human behavior may be impressed to the point of telling their friends about what they have heard, but this does not mean that their understanding of the world has really changed. The test of learning psychology is whether your understanding of situations you encounter has changed, not whether you have learned a new fact." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Damasio and his colleagues have observed that people who do not display the appropriate emotions before they decide, sometimes because of brain damage, also have an impaired ability to make good decisions." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Contrary to the rules of philosophers of science, who advise testing hypotheses by trying to refute them, people (and scientists, quite often) seek data that are likely to be compatible with the beliefs they currently hold. The confirmatory bias of System 1 favors uncritical acceptance of suggestions and exaggeration of the likelihood of extreme and improbable events. If" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The general tendency to overestimate the probability of conjunctive events leads to unwarranted optimism in the evaluation of the likelihood that a plan will succeed or that a project will be completed on time." -Daniel Kahneman 
"I smiled and said nothing. But I thought, "Well, I took it away from you this morning. If your success was due mostly to chance, how much credit are you entitled to take for it?" -Daniel Kahneman 
"System 1 generates an impression of similarity without intending to do so. The representativeness heuristic is involved when someone says "She will win the election; you can see she is a winner' or "He won't go far as an academic; too many tattoos." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Now suppose that at the end of the page you get another instruction: count all the commas in the next page. This will be harder, because you will have to overcome the newly acquired tendency to focus attention on the letter f." -Daniel Kahneman 
"There is a deep gap between our thinking about statistics and our thinking about individual cases. Statistical results with a causal interpretation have a stronger effect on our thinking than noncausal information. But even compelling causal statistics will not change long-held beliefs or beliefs rooted in personal experience. On the other hand, surprising individual cases have a powerful impact and are a more effective tool for teaching psychology because the incongruity must be resolved and embedded in a causal story." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Peak-end rule: The global retrospective rating was well predicted by the average of the level of pain reported at the worst moment of the experience and at its end. Duration neglect: The duration of the procedure had no effect whatsoever on the ratings of total pain." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The emotional tail wags the rational dog" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Suggestion and anchoring are both explained by the same automatic operation of System 1." -Daniel Kahneman 
"knowing little makes it easier to fit everything you know into a coherent pattern." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Many intelligent and well-informed people were keenly interested in the future of the economy and did not believe a catastrophe was imminent; I infer from this fact that the crisis was not knowable. What is perverse about the use of know in this context is not that some individuals get credit for prescience that they do not deserve. It is that the language implies that the world is more knowable than it is. It helps perpetuate a pernicious illusion." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Resistance to stereotyping is a laudable moral position, but the simplistic idea that the resistance is costless is wrong. The costs are worth paying to achieve a better society, but denying that the costs exist, while satisfying to the soul and politically correct, is not scientifically defensible." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Hindsight is especially unkind to decision makers who act as agents for others--physicians, financial advisers, third-base coaches, CEOs, social workers, diplomats, politicians. We are prone to blame decision makers for good decisions that worked out badly and to give them too little credit for successful moves that appear obvious only after the fact. There is a clear outcome bias. When" -Daniel Kahneman 
"the brain is a machine for jumping to conclusions" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Modern tests of working memory require the individual to switch repeatedly between two demanding tasks, retaining the results of one operation while performing the other. People who do well on these tests tend to do well on tests of general intelligence." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Priming effects take many forms. If the idea of EAT is currently on your mind (whether or not you are conscious of it), you will be quicker than usual to recognize the word SOUP when it is spoken in a whisper or presented in a blurry font." -Daniel Kahneman 
"However, the ability to control attention is not simply a measure of intelligence; measures of efficiency in the control of attention predict performance of air traffic controllers and of Israeli Air Force pilots beyond the effects of intelligence." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Emotional learning may be quick, but what we consider as "expertise' usually takes a long time to develop." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The feelings associated with different activities suggest that another way to improve experience is to switch time from passive leisure, such as TV watching, to more active forms of leisure, including socializing and exercise." -Daniel Kahneman 
"psychologists Keith Stanovich and Richard West, and will refer to two systems in the mind, System 1 and System 2. System 1 operates automatically and quickly, with little or no effort and no sense of voluntary control. System 2 allocates attention to the effortful mental activities that demand it, including complex computations. The operations of System 2 are often associated with the subjective experience of agency, choice, and concentration." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The failures of forecasting in these cases reflect the customers' inability to imagine how much their wishes will escalate over time. They end up paying much more than they would if they had made a realistic plan and stuck to it." -Daniel Kahneman 
"You are more likely to learn something by finding surprises in your own behaviours than from hearing surprising facts from the behaviour of others" -Daniel Kahneman 
"In a paper titled "Trading Is Hazardous to Your Wealth,' they showed that, on average, the most active traders had the poorest results, while the investors who traded the least earned the highest returns." -Daniel Kahneman 
"It is easier to change directions in a crisis, but this was not a crisis." -Daniel Kahneman 
"As you consider the next question, please assume that Steve was selected at random from a representative sample:" -Daniel Kahneman 
"I describe System 1 as effortlessly originating impressions and feelings that are the main sources of the explicit beliefs and deliberate choices of System 2." -Daniel Kahneman 
"rewards for improved performance work better than punishment of mistakes. This proposition is supported by much evidence from research on pigeons, rats, humans, and other animals." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Unlike cognitive load, ego depletion is at least in part a loss of motivation. After exerting self-control in one task, you do not feel like making an effort in another, although you could do it if you really had to. In" -Daniel Kahneman 
"perception of intention and emotion is irresistible; only people afflicted by autism do not experience it." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Religious participation also has relatively greater favorable impact on both positive affect and stress reduction than on life evaluation. Surprisingly, however, religion provides no reduction of feelings of depression or worry." -Daniel Kahneman 
"even" -Daniel Kahneman 
"An inconsistency is built into the design of our mind." -Daniel Kahneman 
"the response to losses is stronger than the response to corresponding gains. This is loss aversion." -Daniel Kahneman 
"I can best describe our state as a form of lethargy- an unwillingness to think about what had happened. So we carried on." -Daniel Kahneman 
"We know that people can maintain an unshakable faith in any proposition, however absurd, when they are sustained by a community of like-minded believers." -Daniel Kahneman 
"when the repeated words or pictures are shown so quickly that the observers never become aware of having seen them. They still end up liking the words or pictures that were presented more frequently. As should be clear by now, System 1 can respond to impressions of events of which System 2 is unaware. Indeed, the mere exposure effect is actually stronger for stimuli that the individual never consciously sees." -Daniel Kahneman 
"You may note the irony. In the context of the cab problem, the neglect of base-rate information is a cognitive flaw, a failure of Bayesian reasoning, and the reliance on causal base rates is desirable. Stereotyping the Green drivers improves the accuracy of judgment. In other contexts, however, such as hiring or profiling, there is a strong social norm against stereotyping, which is also embedded in the law. This is as it should be. In sensitive social contexts, we do not want to draw possibly erroneous conclusions about the individual from the statistics of the group. We consider it morally desirable for base rates to be treated as statistical facts about the group rather than as presumptive facts about individuals. In other words, we reject causal base rates." -Daniel Kahneman 
"tests" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Changing one's mind about human nature is hard work, and changing one's mind for the worse about oneself is even harder." -Daniel Kahneman 
"More generally, the financial benefits of self-employment are mediocre: given the same qualifications, people achieve higher average return by selling their skills to employers than by setting out on their own. The evidence suggests that optimism is widespread, stubborn, and costly. Psychologists have confirmed that most people genuinely believe they are superior to most others on most desirable traits - they are willing to bet small amounts of money on these beliefs in the laboratory." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Errors in the initial budget are not always innocent. The authors of unrealistic plans are often driven by the desire to get the plan approved--whether by their superiors or by a client--supported by the knowledge that projects are rarely abandoned unfinished merely because of overruns in costs or completion times." -Daniel Kahneman 
"System 2 also is capable of a more systematic and careful approach to evidence, and of following a list of boxes that must be checked before making a decision" -Daniel Kahneman 
"An unbiased appreciation of uncertainty is a cornerstone of rationality--but it is not what people and organizations want." -Daniel Kahneman 
"And it is natural for System 1 to generate overconfident judgments, because confidence, as we have seen, is determined by the coherence of the best story you can tell from the evidence at hand. Be warned: your intuitions will deliver predictions that are too extreme and you will be inclined to put far too much faith in them." -Daniel Kahneman 
"It is noteworthy, however, that we did not feel we needed information about other teams to make our guesses." -Daniel Kahneman 
"In such cases, the greatest responsibility for avoiding the planning fallacy lies with the decision makers who approve the plan. If they do not recognize the need for an outside view, they commit a planning fallacy." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The illusion of skill is not only an individual aberration; it is deeply ingrained in the culture of the industry. Facts that challenge such basic assumptions--and thereby threaten people's livelihood and self-esteem--are simply not absorbed." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The satiation level beyond which experienced well-being no longer increases was a household income of about $75,000 in high-cost areas (it could be less in areas where the cost of living is lower). The average increase of experienced well-being associated with incomes beyond that level was precisely zero. This is surprising because higher income undoubtedly permits the purchase of many pleasures, including vacations in interesting places and opera tickets, as well as an improved living environment. Why do these added pleasures not show up in reports of emotional experience? A plausible interpretation is that higher income is associated with a reduced ability to enjoy the small pleasures of life. There is suggestive evidence in favor of this idea: priming students with the idea of wealth reduces the pleasure their face expresses as they eat a bar of chocolate! There is a clear contrast between the effects of income on experienced well-being and on life satisfaction. Higher income brings with it higher satisfaction, well beyond the point at which it ceases to have any positive effect on experience. The general conclusion is as clear for well-being as it was for colonoscopies: people's evaluations of their lives and their actual experience may be related, but they are also different. Life satisfaction is not a flawed measure of their experienced well-being, as I thought some years ago. It is something else entirely." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Intense focusing on a task can make people effectively blind, even to stimuli that normally attract attention." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The conclusion is that the ease with which instances come to mind is a System 1 heuristic, which is replaced by a focus on content when System 2 is more engaged. Multiple lines of evidence converge on the conclusion that people who let themselves be guided by System 1 are more strongly susceptible to availability biases than others who are in a state of higher vigilance. The following are some conditions in which people "go with the flow' and are affected more strongly by ease of retrieval than by the content they retrieved:" -Daniel Kahneman 
"that people can maintain an unshakable faith in any proposition, however absurd, when they are sustained by a community of like-minded believers." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Survival prospects are poor for an animal that is not suspicious of novelty. However, it is also adaptive for the initial caution" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Most important, of course, we all care intensely for the narrative of our own life and very much want it to be a good story, with a decent hero." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Valid intuitions develop when experts have learned to recognize familiar elements in a new situation and to act in a manner that is appropriate to it. Good" -Daniel Kahneman 
"It explains why we can think fast, and how we are able to make sense of partial information in a complex world." -Daniel Kahneman 
"decorrelate error! To understand how this principle works, imagine that a large number of observers are shown glass jars containing pennies and are challenged to estimate the number of pennies in each jar. As James Surowiecki explained in his best-selling The Wisdom of Crowds, this is the kind of task in which individuals do very poorly, but pools of individual judgments do remarkably well. Some individuals greatly overestimate the true number, others underestimate it, but when many judgments are averaged, the average tends to be quite accurate. The mechanism is straightforward: all individuals look at the same jar, and all their judgments have a common basis. On the other hand, the errors that individuals make are independent of the errors made by others, and (in the absence of a systematic bias) they tend to average to zero. However, the magic of error reduction works well only when the observations are independent and their errors uncorrelated. If the observers share a bias, the aggregation of judgments will not reduce it. Allowing the observers to influence each other effectively reduces the size of the sample, and with it the precision of the group estimate." -Daniel Kahneman 
"effortful mental activity appears to be especially expensive in the currency of glucose." -Daniel Kahneman 
"System 1 continuously generates suggestions for System 2: impressions, intuitions, intentions, and feelings. If endorsed by System 2, impressions and intuitions turn into beliefs, and impulses turn into voluntary actions. When all goes smoothly, which is most of the time, System 2 adopts the suggestions of System 1 with little or no modification. You generally believe your impressions and act on your desires, and that is fine--usually." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Furthermore, System 2 has no control over the effect and no knowledge of it. The participants who have been exposed to random or absurd anchors (such as Gandhi's death at age 144) confidently deny that this obviously useless information could have influenced their estimate, and they are wrong." -Daniel Kahneman 
"System 1 operates as a machine for jumping to conclusions." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Absorbingly articulate and infinitely intelligent . . . There is nothing pop about Kahneman's psychology, no formulaic story arc, no beating you over the head with an artificial, buzzword -encrusted Big Idea. It's just the wisdom that comes from five decades of honest, rigorous scientific work, delivered humbly yet brilliantly, in a way that will forever change the way you think about thinking:' -MARIA POPOVA, The Atlantic Kahneman's primer adds to recent challenges to economic orthodoxies about rational actors and efficient markets; more than that, it's a lucid, mar- velously readable guide to spotting-and correcting-our biased misunder- standings of the world:' -Publishers Weekly (starred review) The ramifications of Kahneman's work are wide, extending into education, business, marketing, politics ... and even happiness research. Call his field 'psychonomics: the hidden reasoning behind our choices. Thinking, Fast and Slow is essential reading for anyone with a mind:' -KYLE SMITH,NewYorkPost A stellar accomplishment, a book for everyone who likes to think and wants to do it better. - E. JAMES LIEBERMAN ,Libraryfournal Daniel Kahneman demonstrates forcefully in his new book, Thinking, Fast and Slow, how easy it is for humans to swerve away from rationality:' -CHRISTOPHER SHEA , The Washington Post A tour de force .. . Kahneman's book is a must-read for anyone interested in either human behavior or investing. He clearly shows that while we like to think of ourselves as rational in our decision making, the truth is we are subject to many biases. At least being aware of them will give you a better chance of avoiding them, or at least making fewer of them:' -LARRY SWEDROE, CBS News Brilliant .. . It is impossible to exaggerate the importance of Daniel Kahne- man's contribution to the understanding of the way we think and choose. He stands among the giants, a weaver of the threads of Charles Darwin, Adam Smith and Sigmund Freud. Arguably the most important psycholo- gist in history, Kahneman has reshaped cognitive psychology, the analysis of rationality and reason, the understanding of risk and the study of hap pi- ness and well-being ... A magisterial work, stunning in its ambition, infused" -Daniel Kahneman 
"A remarkable aspect of your mental life is that you are rarely stumped. True, you occasionally face a question such as 17 × 24 = ? to which no answer comes immediately to mind, but these dumbfounded moments are rare. The normal state of your mind is that you have intuitive feelings and opinions about almost everything that comes your way. You like or dislike people long before you know much about them; you trust or distrust strangers without knowing why; you feel that an enterprise is bound to succeed without analyzing it. Whether you state them or not, you often have answers to questions that you do not completely understand, relying on evidence that you can neither explain nor defend." -Daniel Kahneman 
"This remarkable priming phenomenon--the influencing of an action by the idea--is known as the ideomotor effect. Although you surely were not aware of it, reading this paragraph primed you as well. If you had needed to stand up to get a glass of water, you would have been slightly slower than usual to rise from your chair--unless you happen to dislike the elderly, in which case research suggests that you might have been slightly faster than usual!" -Daniel Kahneman 
"People can overcome some of the superficial factors that produce illusions of truth when strongly motivated to do so. On most occasions, however, the lazy System 2 will adopt the suggestions of System 1 and march on." -Daniel Kahneman 
"System 2 is activated when an event is detected that violates the model of the world that System 1" -Daniel Kahneman 
"you win a few, you lose a few." -Daniel Kahneman 
"It is the consistency of the information that matters for a good story, not its completeness." -Daniel Kahneman 
"If it takes 5 machines 5 minutes to make 5 widgets, how long would it take 100 machines to make 100 widgets? 100 minutes OR 5 minutes" -Daniel Kahneman 
"System 1 is generally very good at what it does: its models of familiar situations are accurate, its short-term predictions are usually accurate as well, and its initial reactions to challenges are swift and generally appropriate. System 1 has biases, however, systematic errors that it is prone to make in specified circumstances. As we shall see, it sometimes answers easier questions than the one it was asked, and it has little understanding of logic and statistics. One further limitation of System 1 is that it cannot be turned off." -Daniel Kahneman 
"In an experiment that became an instant classic, the psychologist John Bargh and his collaborators asked students at New York University--most aged eighteen to twenty-two--to assemble four-word sentences from a set of five words (for example, "finds he it yellow instantly'). For one group of students, half the scrambled sentences contained words associated with the elderly, such as Florida, forgetful, bald, gray, or wrinkle. When they had completed that task, the young participants were sent out to do another experiment in an office down the hall. That short walk was what the experiment was about. The researchers unobtrusively measured the time it took people to get from one end of the corridor to the other. As Bargh had predicted, the young people who had fashioned a sentence from words with an elderly theme walked down the hallway significantly more slowly than the others. The "Florida effect' involves two stages of priming. First, the set of words primes thoughts of old age, though the word old is never mentioned; second, these thoughts prime a behavior, walking slowly, which is associated with old age. All this happens without any awareness. When they were questioned afterward, none of the students reported noticing that the words had had a common theme, and they all insisted that nothing they did after the first experiment could have been influenced by the words they had encountered. The idea of old age had not come to their conscious awareness, but their actions had changed nevertheless. This remarkable priming phenomenon--the influencing of an action by the idea--is known as the ideomotor effect. Although" -Daniel Kahneman 
"A series of surprising experiments by the psychologist Roy Baumeister and his colleagues has shown conclusively that all variants of voluntary effort--cognitive, emotional, or physical--draw at least partly on a shared pool of mental energy. Their experiments involve successive rather than simultaneous tasks. Baumeister's group has repeatedly found that an effort of will or self-control is tiring; if you have had to force yourself to do something, you are less willing or less able to exert self-control when the next challenge comes around. The phenomenon has been named ego depletion. In a typical demonstration, participants who are instructed to stifle their emotional reaction to an emotionally charged film will later perform poorly on a test of physical stamina--how long they can maintain a strong grip on a dynamometer in spite of increasing discomfort. The emotional effort in the first phase of the experiment reduces the ability to withstand the pain of sustained muscle contraction, and ego-depleted people therefore succumb more quickly to the urge to quit. In another experiment, people are first depleted by a task in which they eat virtuous foods such as radishes and celery while resisting the temptation to indulge in chocolate and rich cookies. Later, these people will give up earlier than normal when faced with a difficult cognitive task. The list of situations and tasks that are now known to deplete self-control is long and varied. All involve conflict and the need to suppress a natural tendency. They include: avoiding the thought of white bears inhibiting the emotional response to a stirring film making a series of choices that involve conflict trying to impress others responding kindly to a partner's bad behavior interacting with a person of a different race (for prejudiced individuals) The list of indications of depletion is also highly diverse: deviating from one's diet overspending on impulsive purchases reacting aggressively to provocation persisting less time in a handgrip task performing poorly in cognitive tasks and logical decision making The evidence is persuasive: activities that impose high demands on System 2 require self-control, and the exertion of self-control is depleting and unpleasant. Unlike cognitive load, ego depletion is at least in part a loss of motivation. After exerting self-control in one task, you do not feel like making an effort in another, although you could do it if you really had to." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The confidence that individuals have in their beliefs depends mostly on the quality of the story they can tell about what they see, even if they see little. We often fail to allow for the possibility that evidence that should be critical to our judgment is missing--what we see is all there is." -Daniel Kahneman 
"what people acquire with a ticket is more than a chance to win; it is the right to dream pleasantly of winning." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Your mind is ready and even eager to identify agents, assign them personality traits and specific intentions, and view their actions as expressing individual propensities. Here" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The halo effect discussed earlier contributes to coherence, because it inclines us to match our view of all the qualities of a person to our judgment of one attribute that is particularly significant. If" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The core of the illusion is that we believe we understand the past, which implies that the future also should be knowable, but in fact we understand the past less than we believe we do." -Daniel Kahneman 
"for most people, the cause of a mistake matters. The" -Daniel Kahneman 
"rewards for improved performance work better than punishment of mistakes." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The Illusions of Pundits The idea that the future is unpredictable is undermined every day by the ease with which the past is explained" -Daniel Kahneman 
"As you consider the next question, please assume that Steve was selected at random from a representative sample: An individual has been described by a neighbor as follows: "Steve is very shy and withdrawn, invariably helpful but with little interest in people or in the world of reality. A meek and tidy soul, he has a need for order and structure, and a passion for detail.' Is Steve more likely to be a librarian or a farmer?" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The brief pleasure of a cool breeze on a hot day may make you slightly more positive and optimistic about whatever you are evaluating at that time." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The Affect Heuristic The dominance of conclusions over arguments is most pronounced where emotions are involved." -Daniel Kahneman 
"What we learn from the past is to maximize the qualities of our future memories, not necessarily of our future experience. This is the tyranny of the remembering self." -Daniel Kahneman 
"the decision weights that people assign to outcomes are not identical to the probabilities of these outcomes," -Daniel Kahneman 
"Happiness does not have a simple meaning and should not be used as if it does." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Expertise is not a single skill; it is a collection of skills, and the same professional may be highly expert in some of the tasks in her domain while remaining a novice in others." -Daniel Kahneman 
"We all care intensely for the narrative of our own life and very much want it to be a good story, with a decent hero." -Daniel Kahneman 
"premortem." -Daniel Kahneman 
"the idea of money primes individualism: a reluctance to be involved with others, to depend on others, or to accept demands from others. The psychologist who has done this remarkable research, Kathleen Vohs, has been laudably restrained in discussing the implications of her findings, leaving the task to her readers. Her experiments are profound--her findings suggest that living in a culture that surrounds us with reminders of money may shape our behavior and our attitudes in ways that we do not know about and of which we may not be proud. Some cultures provide frequent reminders of respect, others constantly remind their members of God, and some societies prime obedience by large images of the Dear Leader. Can" -Daniel Kahneman 
"The general theme of these findings is that the idea of money primes individualism: a reluctance to be involved with others, to depend on others, or to accept demands from others. The psychologist who has done this remarkable research, Kathleen Vohs, has been laudably restrained in discussing the implications of her findings, leaving the task to her readers. Her experiments are profound--her findings suggest that living in a culture that surrounds us with reminders of money may shape our behavior and our attitudes in ways that we do not know about and of which we may not be proud. Some cultures provide frequent reminders of respect, others constantly remind their members of God, and some societies prime obedience by large images of the Dear Leader. Can there be any doubt that the ubiquitous portraits of the national leader in dictatorial societies not only convey the feeling that "Big Brother Is Watching' but also lead to an actual reduction in spontaneous thought and independent action?" -Daniel Kahneman 
"our excessive confidence in what we believe we know, and our apparent inability to acknowledge the full extent of our ignorance and the uncertainty of the world we live in." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Reciprocal priming effects tend to produce a coherent reaction: if you were primed to think of old age, you would tend to act old, and acting old would reinforce the thought of old age." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Professional controversies bring out the worst in academics. Scientific journals occasionally publish exchanges, often beginning with someone's critique of another's research, followed by a reply and a rejoinder. I have always thought that these exchanges are a waste of time. Especially when the original critique is sharply worded, the reply and the rejoinder are often exercises in what I have called sarcasm for beginners and advanced sarcasm. The replies rarely concede anything to a biting critique, and it is almost unheard of for a rejoinder to admit that the original critique was misguided or erroneous in any way." -Daniel Kahneman 
"People tend to assess the relative importance of issues by the ease with which they are retrieved from memory--and this is largely determined by the extent of coverage in the media. Frequently mentioned topics populate the mind even as others slip away from awareness. In turn, what the media choose to report corresponds to their view of what is currently on the public's mind. It is no accident that authoritarian regimes exert substantial pressure on independent media. Because public interest is most easily aroused by dramatic events and by celebrities, media feeding frenzies are common." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Other classic studies showed that electrical stimulation of specific areas in the rat brain (and of corresponding areas in the human brain) produce a sensation of intense pleasure, so intense in some cases that rats who can stimulate their brain by pressing a lever will die of starvation without taking a break to feed themselves" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Insufficient adjustment is also a source of tension between exasperated parents and teenagers who enjoy loud music in their room. Le Boeuf and Shafir note that a "well-intentioned child who turns down exceptionally loud music to meet a parent's demand that it be played at a 'reasonable' volume may fail to adjust sufficiently from a high anchor, and may feel that genuine attempts at compromise are being overlooked." -Daniel Kahneman 
"One of the tasks of System 2 is to overcome the impulses of System 1. In other words, System 2 is in charge of self-control." -Daniel Kahneman 
"judgments of similarity and probability are not constrained by the same logical rules. It is entirely acceptable for judgments of similarity to be unaffected by base rates and also by the possibility that the description was inaccurate, but anyone who ignores base rates and the quality of evidence in probability assessments will certainly make mistakes." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The exaggerated faith in small samples is only one example of a more general illusion--we pay more attention to the content of messages than to information about their reliability, and as a result end up with a view of the world around us that is simpler and more coherent than the data justify. Jumping" -Daniel Kahneman 
"demonstrated experimentally, but few can actually be measured." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Observers are less cognitively busy and more open to information than actors." -Daniel Kahneman 
"System 1 does not keep track of alternatives that it rejects, or even of the fact that there were alternatives." -Daniel Kahneman 
"you should know that correcting your intuitions may complicate your life." -Daniel Kahneman 
"System 1 provides the impressions that often turn into your beliefs, and is the source of the impulses that often become your choices and your actions." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The issue becomes politically important because it is on everyone's mind, and the response of the political system is guided by the intensity of public sentiment. The availability cascade has now reset priorities. Other risks, and other ways that resources could be applied for the public good, all have faded into the background." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The economists Ulrike Malmendier and Geoffrey Tate identified optimistic CEOs by the amount of company stock that they owned personally and observed that highly optimistic leaders took excessive risks. They assumed debt rather than issue equity and were more likely than others to "overpay for target companies and undertake value-destroying mergers.' Remarkably, the stock of the acquiring company suffered substantially more in mergers if the CEO was overly optimistic by the authors' measure. The stock market is apparently able to identify overconfident CEOs. This" -Daniel Kahneman 
"Although hindsight and the outcome bias generally foster risk aversion, they also bring undeserved rewards to irresponsible risk seekers, such as a general or an entrepreneur who took a crazy gamble and won." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The general theme of these findings is that the idea of money primes individualism: a reluctance to be involved with others, to depend on others, or to accept demands from others. The" -Daniel Kahneman 
"She says experience has taught her that criticism is more effective than praise. What she doesn't understand is that it's all due to regression to the mean." -Daniel Kahneman 
"To appreciate the asymmetry between the possibility effect and the certainty effect, imagine first that you have a 1% chance to win $1 million. You will know the outcome tomorrow. Now, imagine that you are almost certain to win $1 million, but there is a 1% chance that you will not. Again, you will learn the outcome tomorrow. The anxiety of the second situation appears to be more salient than the hope in the first. The certainty effect is also more striking than the possibility effect if the outcome is a surgical disaster rather than a financial gain. Compare the intensity with which you focus on the faint sliver of hope in an operation that is almost certain to be fatal, compared to the fear of a 1% risk. The combination of the certainty effect and possibility effects at the two ends of the probability scale is inevitably accompanied by inadequate sensitivity to intermediate probabilities. You can see that the range of probabilities between 5% and 95% is associated with a much smaller range of decision weights (from 13.2 to 79.3), about two-thirds as much as rationally expected. Neuroscientists have confirmed these observations, finding regions of the brain that respond to changes in the probability of winning a prize. The brain's response to variations of probabilities is strikingly similar to the decision weights estimated from choices. Probabilities that are extremely low or high (below 1% or above 99%) are a special case. It is difficult to assign a unique decision weight to very rare events, because they are sometimes ignored altogether, effectively assigned a decision weight of zero. On the other hand, when you do not ignore the very rare events, you will certainly overweight them. Most of us spend very little time worrying about nuclear meltdowns or fantasizing about large inheritances from unknown relatives. However, when an unlikely event becomes the focus of attention, we will assign it much more weight than its probability deserves. Furthermore, people are almost completely insensitive to variations of risk among small probabilities. A cancer risk of 0.001% is not easily distinguished from a risk of 0.00001%, although the former would translate to 3,000 cancers for the population of the United States, and the latter to 30." -Daniel Kahneman 
"cognition is embodied; you think with your body, not only with your brain." -Daniel Kahneman 
"sympathy we would feel for the patient would not be under our control; it would arise from System 1." -Daniel Kahneman 
"A few lucky gambles can crown a reckless leader with a halo of prescience and boldness." -Daniel Kahneman 
"If you were allowed one wish for your child, seriously consider wishing him or her optimism. Optimists are normally cheerful and happy, and therefore popular; they are resilient in adapting to failures and hardships, their chances of clinical depression are reduced, their immune system is stronger, they take better care of their health, they feel healthier than others and are in fact likely to live longer. A study of people who exaggerate their expected life span beyond actuarial predictions showed that they work longer hours, are more optimistic about their future income, are more likely to remarry after divorce (the classic "triumph of hope over experience'), and are more prone to bet on individual stocks. Of course, the blessings of optimism are offered only to individuals who are only mildly biased and who are able to "accentuate the positive' without losing track of reality." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Somos propensos a sobrestimar lo que entendemos del mundo y a subestimar el papel del azar en los acontecimientos." -Daniel Kahneman 
"Failures of detection followed the same inverted-V pattern as the dilating pupil. The similarity was reassuring: the pupil was a good measure of the physical arousal that accompanies mental effort, and we could go ahead and use it to understand how the mind works." -Daniel Kahneman 
"System 2 is much too slow and inefficient to serve as a substitute for System 1 in making routine decisions. The best we can do is a compromise: learn to recognize situations in which mistakes are likely and try harder to avoid significant mistakes when the stakes are high." -Daniel Kahneman 
"When forecasting the outcomes of risky projects, executives too easily fall victim to the planning fallacy. In its grip, they make decisions based on delusional optimism rather than on a rational weighting of gains, losses, and probabilities. They overestimate benefits and underestimate costs. They spin scenarios of success while overlooking the potential for mistakes and miscalculations." -Daniel Kahneman 
"proper way to elicit information from a group is not by starting with a public discussion but by confidentially collecting each person's judgment." -Daniel Kahneman 
"A bat and ball cost $1.10. The bat costs one dollar more than the ball. How much does the ball cost?" -Daniel Kahneman 
"could have had a skiing accident during adolescence that left her slightly impaired, and so on. Recall that the correlation between two measures--in the present case reading age and GPA--is equal to the proportion of shared factors among their determinants. What is your best guess about that proportion? My most optimistic guess is about 30%." -Daniel Kahneman 
"«Fueron preparados para encontrar defectos, y eso es exactamente lo que encontraron.»" -Daniel Kahneman 
"investment decisions. Why be concerned with gossip? Because it is much easier, as well as far more enjoyable," -Daniel Kahneman 
"Among medical specialties, anesthesiologists benefit from good feedback, because the effects of their actions are likely to be quickly evident. In contrast, radiologists obtain little information about the accuracy of the diagnoses they make and about the pathologies they fail to detect. Anesthesiologists are therefore in a better position to develop useful intuitive skills. If an anesthesiologist says, "I have a feeling something is wrong,' everyone in the operating room should be prepared for an emergency." -Daniel Kahneman 
"It is difficult to imagine people lining up at airport bookstores to buy a book that enthusiastically describes the practices of business leaders who, on average, do somewhat better than chance. Consumers have a hunger for a clear message about the determinants of success and failure in business, and they need stories that offer a sense of understanding, however illusory." -Daniel Kahneman 
"We often fail to allow for the possibility that evidence that should be critical to our judgment is missing--what we see is all there is." -Daniel Kahneman 
"As expected, the effect of facial competence on voting is about three times larger for information-poor and TV-prone voters than for others who are better informed and watch less television. Evidently," -Daniel Kahneman 
"The perception of intention and emotion is irresistible; only people afflicted by autism do not experience it." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The combination of loss aversion and narrow framing is a costly curse. Individual investors can avoid that curse, achieving the emotional benefits of broad framing while also saving time and agony, by reducing the frequency with which they check how well their investments are doing. Closely following daily fluctuations is a losing proposition, because the pain of the frequent small losses exceeds the pleasure of the equally frequent small gains. Once a quarter is enough, and may be more than enough for individual investors. In addition to improving the emotional quality of life, the deliberate avoidance of exposure to short-term outcomes improves the quality of both decisions and outcomes. The typical short-term reaction to bad news is increased loss aversion. Investors who get aggregated feedback receive such news much less often and are likely to be less risk averse and to end up richer. You are also less prone to useless churning of your portfolio if you don't know how every stock in it is doing every day (or every week or even every month). A commitment not to change one's position for several periods (the equivalent of "locking in' an investment) improves financial performance." -Daniel Kahneman 
"The truth is, as Jacoby and many followers have shown, that the name David Stenbill will look familiar when you see it because you will see it more clearly. Words that you have seen before become easier to see again--you can identify them better than other words when they are shown very briefly or masked by noise, and you will be quicker (by a few hundredths of a second) to read them than to read other words. In" -Daniel Kahneman 
