"You are in danger of living a life so comfortable and soft, that you will die without ever realizing your true potential." -David Goggins
"Our culture has become hooked on the quick-fix, the life hack, efficiency. Everyone is on the hunt for that simple action algorithm that nets maximum profit with the least amount of effort. There's no denying this attitude may get you some of the trappings of success, if you're lucky, but it will not lead to a calloused mind or self-mastery. If you want to master the mind and remove your governor, you'll have to become addicted to hard work. Because passion and obsession, even talent, are only useful tools if you have the work ethic to back them up." -David Goggins
"It won't always go your way, so you can't get trapped in this idea that just because you've imagined a possibility for yourself that you somehow deserve it. Your entitled mind is dead weight. Cut it loose. Don't focus on what you think you deserve. Take aim on what you are willing to earn!" -David Goggins
"In the military we always say we don't rise to the level of our expectations, we fall to the level of our training," -David Goggins
"No one is going to come help you. No one's coming to save you." -David Goggins
"It's a lot more than mind over matter. It takes relentless self discipline to schedule suffering into your day, every day." -David Goggins
"I thought I'd solved a problem when really I was creating new ones by taking the path of least resistance." -David Goggins
"We're either getting better or we're getting worse." -David Goggins
"The most important conversations you'll ever have are the ones you'll have with yourself." -David Goggins
"Be more than motivated, be more than driven, become literally obsessed to the point where people think you're fucking nuts." -David Goggins
"Denial is the ultimate comfort zone." -David Goggins
"I don't stop when I'm tired. I stop when I'm done" -David Goggins
"Everything in life is a mind game! Whenever we get swept under by life's dramas, large and small, we are forgetting that no matter how bad the pain gets, no matter how harrowing the torture, all bad things end." -David Goggins
"We live in a world with a lot of insecure, jealous people. Some of them are our best friends. They are blood relatives. Failure terrifies them. So does our success. Because when we transcend what we once thought possible, push our limits, and become more, our light reflects off all the walls they've built up around them. Your light enables them to see the contours of their own prison, their own self-limitations. But if they are truly the great people you always believed them to be, their jealousy will evolve, and soon their imagination might hop its fence, and it will be their turn to change for the better." -David Goggins
"Tell yourself the truth! That you've wasted enough time, and that you have other dreams that will take courage to realize, so you don't die a fucking pussy." -David Goggins
"From then on, I brainwashed myself into craving discomfort. If it was raining, I would go run. Whenever it started snowing, my mind would say, Get your fucking running shoes on. Sometimes I wussed out and had to deal with it at the Accountability Mirror. But facing that mirror, facing myself, motivated me to fight through uncomfortable experiences, and, as a result, I became tougher. And being tough and resilient helped me meet my goals." -David Goggins
"The Buddha famously said that life is suffering. I'm not a Buddhist, but I know what he meant and so do you. To exist in this world, we must contend with humiliation, broken dreams, sadness, and loss." -David Goggins
"Heraclitus, a philosopher born in the Persian Empire back in the fifth century BC, had it right when he wrote about men on the battlefield. “Out of every one hundred men," -David Gogginshe wrote, “ten shouldn't even be there, eighty are just targets, nine are the real fighters, and we are lucky to have them, for they make the battle. Ah, but the one, one is a warrior…" -David Goggins
"We all need small sparks, small accomplishments in our lives to fuel the big ones. Think of your small accomplishments as kindling. When you want a bonfire, you don't start by lighting a big log. You collect some witch's hair—a small pile of hay or some dry, dead grass. You light that, and then add small sticks and bigger sticks before you feed your tree stump into the blaze. Because it's the small sparks, which start small fires, that eventually build enough heat to burn the whole fucking forest down." -David Goggins
"Pain unlocks a secret doorway in the mind, one that leads to both peak performance, and beautiful silence." -David Goggins
"The reason it's important to push hardest when you want to quit the most is because it helps you callous your mind. It's the same reason why you have to do your best work when you are the least motivated. That's why I loved PT in BUD/S and why I still love it today. Physical challenges strengthen my mind so I'm ready for whatever life throws at me, and it will do the same for you." -David Goggins
"When you think that you are done, you're only 40% in to what your body's capable of doing. That's just the limits that we put on ourselves." -David Goggins
"Only you can master your mind, which is what it takes to live a bold life filled with accomplishments most people consider beyond their capability." -David Goggins
"Always be willing to embrace ignorance and become the dumb fuck in the classroom again, because that is the only way to expand your body of knowledge and body of work. It's the only way to expand your mind." -David Goggins
"If you want to be one of the few to defy those trends in our ever-softening society, you will have to be willing to go to war with yourself and create a whole new identity, which requires an open mind." -David Goggins
"You are giving up instead of getting hard! Tell the truth about the real reasons for your limitations and you will turn that negativity, which is real, into jet fuel. Those odds stacked against you will become a damn runway!" -David Goggins
"like the Taoists say, those that know don't speak, and those who speak, well, they don't know jack shit." -David Goggins
"By the time I graduated, I knew that the confidence I'd managed to develop didn't come from a perfect family or God-given talent. It came from personal accountability which brought me self respect, and self respect will always light a way forward." -David Goggins
"The most important conversations you'll ever have are the ones you'll have with yourself. You wake up with them, you walk around with them, you go to bed with them, and eventually you act on them. Whether they be good or bad. We are all our own worst haters and doubters because self doubt is a natural reaction to any bold attempt to change your life for the better. You can't stop it from blooming in your brain, but you can neutralize it, and all the other external chatter by asking, What if?" -David Goggins
"it's possible to transcend anything that doesn't kill you," -David Goggins
"Analyze your schedule, kill your empty habits, burn out the bullshit, and see what's left." -David Goggins
"Every minute you spend feeling sorry for yourself is another minute not getting better, another morning you miss at the gym, another evening wasted without studying. Another day burned when you didn't make any progress toward your dreams, ambitions, and deepest desires. The ones you've had in your head and heart your entire life." -David Goggins
"You cannot be afraid to disappoint people. You have to live the life you want to live. Sometimes, that means being the motherfucker who can put a middle finger up to everyone in the room and be totally comfortable with that." -David Goggins
"The vast majority of us are slaves to our minds. Most don't even make the first effort when it comes to mastering their thought process because it's a never-ending chore and impossible to get right every time." -David Goggins
"I'm haunted by my future goals, not my past failures. I'm haunted by what I may still become. I'm haunted by my own continued thirst for evolution." -David Goggins
"The Buddha famously said that life is suffering. I'm not a Buddhist, but I know what he meant and so do you. To exist in this world, we must contend with humiliation, broken dreams, sadness, and loss. That's just nature. Each specific life comes with its own personalized portion of pain. It's coming for you. You can't stop it. And you know it." -David Goggins
"Anyone who is of sound mind and body can sit down and think of twenty things in their life that could have gone differently. Where maybe they didn't get a fair shake and where they took the path of least resistance. If you're one of the few who acknowledge that, want to callous those wounds, and strengthen your character, its up to you to go back through your past and make peace with yourself by facing those incidents and all of your negative influences, and accepting them as weak spots in your own character. Only when you identify and accept your weaknesses will you finally stop running from your past. Then those incidents can be used more efficiently as fuel to become better and grow stronger." -David Goggins
"You can be born in a fucking sewer and still be the baddest motherfucker on earth." -David Goggins
"You are stopping you, you are giving up instead of getting hard." -David Goggins
"the human body can withstand and accomplish a hell of a lot more than most of us think possible, and that it all begins and ends in the mind." -David Goggins
"You know that my refrigerator is never full, and it never will be because I live a mission-driven life, always on the hunt for the next challenge. That mindset is the reason I broke that record, finished Badwater, became a SEAL, rocked Ranger School, and on down the list. In my mind I'm that racehorse always chasing a carrot I'll never catch, forever trying to prove myself to myself. And when you live that way and attain a goal, success feels anti-climactic." -David Goggins
"But you don't have to let your doubt into the cockpit! You can tolerate doubt as a backseat driver, but if you put doubt in the pilot's seat, defeat is guaranteed. Remembering that you've been through difficulties before and have always survived to fight again shifts the conversation in your head. It will allow you to control and manage doubt, and keep you focused on taking each and every step necessary to achieve the task at hand." -David Goggins
"No matter what you or I achieve, in sports, business, or life, we can't be satisfied. Life is too dynamic a game. We're either getting better or we're getting worse. Yes, we need to celebrate our victories. There's power in victory that's transformative, but after our celebration we should dial it down, dream up new training regimens, new goals, and start at zero the very next day." -David Goggins
"But what put distance between me and almost everybody else in that platoon is that I didn't let my desire for comfort rule me." -David Goggins
"There is no more time to waste. Hours and days evaporate like creeks in the desert. That's why it's okay to be cruel to yourself as long as you realize you're doing it to become better." -David Goggins
"A lot of us surround ourselves with people who speak to our desire for comfort. Who would rather treat the pain of our wounds and prevent further injury than help us callous over them and try again. We need to surround ourselves with people who will tell us what we need to hear, not what we want to hear, but at the same time not make us feel we're up against the impossible." -David Goggins
"This life is all a fucking mind game. Realize that. Own it!" -David Goggins
"no matter who you are, who your parents are or were, where you live, what you do for a living, or how much money you have, you're probably living at about 40 percent of your true capability." -David Goggins
"Your entitled mind is dead weight. Cut it loose. Don't focus on what you think you deserve. Take aim on what you are willing to earn! I" -David Goggins
"And if you fail again, so the fuck be it. Take the pain. Repeat these steps and keep fighting." -David Goggins
"The hard part is getting to that point, because the ticket to victory often comes down to bringing your very best when you feel your worst." -David Goggins
"We all owe it ourselves to stand for something. Principles give us a foundation — solid ground we can trust and build on as we continue to redefine what's possible in our own lives. Sure, some will be put off by your dedication and level of effort. Others will call you obsessed or think that you've gone crazy. When they do, smile and say, ""I'm not crazy. I'm just not you." -David Goggins
"It is a lifelong quest for more knowledge, more courage, more humility, and more belief. Because when you summon the strength and discipline to live like that, the only thing limiting your horizons is you." -David Goggins
"What if is an exquisite fuck-you to anyone who has ever doubted your greatness or stood in your way. It silences negativity. It's a reminder that you don't really know what you're capable of until you put everything you've got on the line. It makes the" -David Goggins
"Mental toughness and resilience fade if they aren't used consistently. I say it all the time: you are either getting better, or you're getting worse. You're not staying the same." -David Goggins
"In week two, build an optimal schedule. Lock everything into place in fifteen- to thirty-minute blocks. Some tasks will take multiple blocks or entire days. Fine. When you work, only work on one thing at a time, think about the task in front of you and pursue it relentlessly. When it comes time for the next task on your schedule, place that first one aside, and apply the same focus." -David Goggins
"A true leader stays exhausted, abhors arrogance, and never looks down on the weakest link. He fights for his men and leads by example. That's what it meant to be uncommon among uncommon. It meant being one of the best and helping your men find their best too." -David Goggins
"This one's for the unusual motherfuckers in this world. A lot of people think that once they reach a certain level of status, respect, or success, that they've made it in life. I'm here to tell you that you always have to find more. Greatness is not something that if you meet it once it stays with you forever. That shit evaporates like a flash of oil in a hot pan." -David Goggins
"Everyone is on the hunt for that simple action algorithm that nets maximum profit with the least amount of effort. There's no denying this attitude may get you some of the trappings of success, if you're lucky, but it will not lead to a calloused mind or self-mastery. If you want to master the mind and remove your governor, you'll have to become addicted to hard work. Because passion and obsession, even talent, are only useful tools if you have the work ethic to back them up." -David Goggins
"Everyone fails sometimes and life isn't supposed to be fair, much less bend to your every whim." -David Goggins
"Everyone fails sometimes and life isn't supposed to be fair, much less bend to your every whim." -David Goggins
"Everyone is on the hunt for that simple action algorithm that nets maximum profit with the least amount of effort. There's no denying this attitude may get you some of the trappings of success, if you're lucky, but it will not lead to a calloused mind or self-mastery. If you want to master the mind and remove your governor, you'll have to become addicted to hard work. Because passion and obsession, even talent, are only useful tools if you have the work ethic to back them up." -David Goggins
"This one's for the unusual motherfuckers in this world. A lot of people think that once they reach a certain level of status, respect, or success, that they've made it in life. I'm here to tell you that you always have to find more. Greatness is not something that if you meet it once it stays with you forever. That shit evaporates like a flash of oil in a hot pan." -David Goggins
"A true leader stays exhausted, abhors arrogance, and never looks down on the weakest link. He fights for his men and leads by example. That's what it meant to be uncommon among uncommon. It meant being one of the best and helping your men find their best too." -David Goggins
"You must recognize what you are about to do, highlight what you do not like about it, and spend time visualizing each and every obstacle you can. I" -David Goggins
"Control your mindset. Dominate your thought process. This life is all a fucking mind game. Realize that. Own it!" -David Goggins
"I understand the temptation to sell short, but I also know that impulse is driven by your mind's desire for comfort, and it's not telling you the truth." -David Goggins
"But it's not the external voice that will break you down. It's what you tell yourself that matters. The most important conversations you'll ever have are the ones you'll have with yourself. You wake up with them, you walk around with them, you go to bed with them, and eventually you act on them. Whether they be good or bad." -David Goggins
"Most wars are won or lost in our own heads, and when we're in a foxhole we usually aren't alone, and we need to be confident in the quality of the heart, mind, and dialogue of the person hunkered down with us. Because at some point we will need some empowering words to keep us focused and deadly." -David Goggins
"Insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting a different result." -David Goggins
"You have been preoccupied by bullshit for way too long. It's time to switch your focus to the things that will slingshot you forward. #DistractingInjuries #NeverFinished" -David Goggins
"You can push yourself to a place that is beyond the current capability or temporal mindset of the people you work with, and that's okay. Just know that your supposed superiority is a figment of your own ego. So don't lord it over them, because it won't help you advance as a team or as an individual in your field. Instead of getting angry that your colleagues can't keep up, help pick your colleagues up and bring them with you!" -David Goggins
"The reason it's important to push hardest when you want to quit the most is because it helps you callous your mind. It's the same reason why you have to do your best work when you are the least motivated." -David Goggins
"Everything in life is a mind game! Whenever we get swept under by life's dramas, large and small, we are forgetting that no matter how bad the pain gets, no matter how harrowing the torture, all bad things end. That forgetting happens the second we give control over our emotions and actions to other people, which can easily happen when pain is peaking." -David Goggins
"It hurts, but that's all it does. The most difficult part of the training is training your mind. You build calluses on your feet to endure the road. You build callouses on your mind to endure the pain. There's only one way to do that. You have to get out there and run." -David Goggins
"Reality can be brutal when all of your excuses are stripped away and you are exposed for exactly who and what you have become, but the truth can also be liberating." -David Goggins
"I am David Fucking Goggins. I exist; therefore, I complete what I start. I take pride in my effort and in my performance in all phases of life. Just because I am here! If I'm lost, I will find myself. As long as I'm on planet Earth, I will not half-ass it. Anywhere I lack, I will improve because I exist and I am willing." -David Goggins
"be the very person who I became so proud of. It's all well and good to have success and reach a certain level, but I really don't give a fuck what you did yesterday. Maybe you finished Ultraman or graduated from Harvard. I do not care. Respect is earned every day by waking up early, challenging yourself with new dreams or digging up old nightmares, and embracing the suck like you have nothing and have never done a damn thing in your life." -David Goggins
"That's when I first realized that not all physical and mental limitations are real, and that I had a habit of giving up way too soon." -David Goggins
"life is one long motherfucking imaginary game that has no scoreboard, no referee, and isn't over until we're dead and buried." -David Goggins
"I was the sum total of the obstacles I'd overcome." -David Goggins
"The only way we can change is to be real with ourselves." -David Goggins
"People who feel sorry for themselves are obsessed with their own problems and their own fate. Is that really much different than the greedy and egotistical people who want to feel better than everybody else? The higher I climb in my life, the more I realize how much I need to mop that floor. Because that's where all the knowledge is. There is no grit at the top, no tests of resolve in steak dinners, five-star hotels, or spa treatments. Once you make it in this world, you have to freefall back to the bottom in some way to keep learning and growing." -David Goggins
"From the time you take your first breath, you become eligible to die. You also become eligible to find your greatness and become the One Warrior. But it is up to you to equip yourself for the battle ahead. Only you can master your mind, which is what it takes to live a bold life filled with accomplishments most people consider beyond their capability." -David Goggins
"In life, there is no gift as overlooked or inevitable as failure. I've had quite a few and have learned to relish them, because if you do the forensics you'll find clues about where to make adjustments and how to eventually accomplish your task." -David Goggins
"I understand the temptation to sell short, but I also know that impulse is driven by your mind's desire for comfort, and it's not telling you the truth. It's your identity trying to find sanctuary, not help you grow. It's looking for status quo, not reaching for greatness" -David Goggins
"There is so much pain and suffering involved in physical challenges that it's the best training to take command of your inner dialogue, and the newfound mental strength and confidence you gain by continuing to push yourself physically will carry over to other aspects in your life. You will realize that if you were underperforming in your physical challenges, there is a good chance you are underperforming at school and work too." -David Goggins
"Then I thought of an English middle-distance runner from back in the day named Roger Bannister. When Bannister was trying to break the four-minute mile in the 1950s, experts told him it couldn't be done, but that didn't stop him. He failed again and again, but he persevered, and when he ran his historic mile in 3:59.4 on May 6, 1954, he didn't just break a record, he broke open the floodgates simply by proving it possible. Six weeks later, his record was eclipsed, and by now over 1,000 runners have done what was once thought to be beyond human capability." -David Goggins
"We have to learn to stop looking for a sign that the hard time will end." -David Goggins
"We habitually settle for less than our best; at work, in school, in our relationships, and on the playing field or race course." -David Goggins
"reached our absolute limit, we still have 60 percent more to give! That's the governor in action! Once you know that to be true, it's simply a matter of stretching your pain tolerance, letting go of your identity and all your self-limiting stories, so you can get to 60 percent, then 80 percent and beyond without giving up. I call this The 40% Rule, and the reason it's so powerful is that if you follow it, you will unlock your mind to new levels of performance and excellence in sports and in life, and your rewards will run far deeper than mere material success. The 40% Rule can be applied to everything" -David Goggins
"Are you an experienced scuba diver? Great, shed your gear, take a deep breath and become a one-hundred-foot free diver. Are you a badass triathlete? Cool, learn how to rock climb. Are you enjoying a wildly successful career? Wonderful, learn a new language or skill. Get a second degree. Always be willing to embrace ignorance and become the dumb fuck in the classroom again, because that is the only way to expand your body of knowledge and body of work. It's the only way to expand your mind." -David Goggins
"It's a lot more than mind over matter. It takes relentless self-discipline to schedule suffering into your day, every day, but if you do, you'll find that at the other end of that suffering is a whole other life just waiting for you." -David Goggins
"Once, I was so focused on failing, I was afraid to even try." -David Goggins
"It's about what we do with opportunities revoked or presented to us that determine how a story ends." -David Goggins
"It's funny, humans tend to hatch our most challenging goals and dreams, the ones that demand the our greatest effort yet promise absolutely nothing, when we are tucked into our comfort zones." -David Goggins
"When a half-assed job doesn't bother you, it speaks volumes about the kind of person you are. And until you start feeling a sense of pride and self-respect in the work you do, no matter how small or overlooked those jobs might be, you will continue to half-ass your life." -David Goggins
"Cultivating a willingness to succeed despite any and all circumstances is the most important variable of the reengagement equation. Your willingness to succeed builds self-esteem. It broadens your concept of your own capability, yet it is the first thing we lose touch with when things go bad. After that, giving up often feels like the sanest option, and maybe it is, but know that quitting chips away at your self-worth and always requires some level of mental rehab. Even if what forces you to quit is an injury or something else beyond your control, you will still have to bounce back from the experience mentally. A successful mission seldom requires any emotional maintenance.In order to execute on your willingness to succeed, you will need to be able to perform without purpose. You've heard of purpose, that magical missing ingredient crucial to landing a fulfilling career and building a happy life. What if I told you the importance of finding your purpose was overblown? What if there never was any such thing as your good friend purpose? What if it doesn't matter what the fuck you do with your time here? What if it's all arbitrary and life doesn't give a flying fuck if you want to be happy? What then?All I know is this: I am David Fucking Goggins. I exist; therefore, I complete what I start. I take pride in my effort and in my performance in all phases of life. Just because I am here! If I'm lost, I will find myself. As long as I'm on planet Earth, I will not half-ass it. Anywhere I lack, I will improve because I exist and I am willing." -David Goggins
"Long before the body goes soft, the mind will have softened. Fortunately, I wasn't that far gone, but my mind had softened a bit because I hadn't been challenged to the edge of my capabilities in years." -David Goggins
"If you want to master the mind and remove your governor, you'll have to become addicted to hard work. Because passion and obsession, even talent, are only useful tools if you have the work ethic to back them up." -David Goggins
"You can't let a simple failure derail your mission, or let it worm so far up your ass it takes over your brain and sabotages your relationships with people who are close to you. Everyone fails sometimes and life isn't supposed to be fair, much less bend to your every whim." -David Goggins
"Luck is a capricious bitch. It won't always go your way, so you can't get trapped in this idea that just because you've imagined a possibility for yourself that you somehow deserve it." -David Goggins
"Evaluate your life in its totality! We all waste so much time doing meaningless bullshit. We burn hours on social media and watching television, which by the end of the year would add up to entire days and weeks if you tabulated time like you do your taxes. You should, because if you knew the truth you'd deactivate your Facebook account STAT, and cut your cable. When" -David Goggins
"Believe it or not, most people prefer delusion. They blame others or bad luck or chaotic circumstance." -David Goggins
"No matter how they're treating you there is one way to not only earn their respect, but turn the tables. Excellence." -David Goggins
"I want you to work harder on that project or in that class than you ever have before. Do everything exactly as they ask, and whatever standard they set as an ideal outcome, you should be aiming to surpass that." -David Goggins
"Life experience, especially negative experiences, help callous the mind. But it's up to you where that callous lines up. If you choose to see yourself as a victim of circumstance into adulthood, that callous will become resentment that protects you from the unfamiliar. It will make you too cautious and untrusting, and possibly too angry at the world. It will make you fearful of change and hard to reach, but not hard of mind." -David Goggins
"If you feel wronged by somebody else, you may be waiting on a confession or an apology in order to move forward, but I'm sorry to say the apology—that tearful confession you've been dreaming of—will never come. The good news is you don't need anybody else to free you from your trauma. You can do it on your own." -David Goggins
"When you find yourself having frivolous conversations or becoming ensnared in activities that don't better you in any way, move the fuck on!" -David Goggins
"See, most civilians don't understand that you need a certain level of callousness to do the job we were being trained to do. To live in a brutal world, you have to accept cold-blooded truths." -David Goggins
"Adagio in Strings" -David Goggins
"Know why you're in the fight to stay in the fight! And never forget that all emotional and physical anguish is finite! It all ends eventually. Smile at pain and watch it fade for at least a second or two." -David Goggins
"That's one reason I invented the Cookie Jar. We must create a system that constantly reminds us who the fuck we are when we are at our best, because life is not going to pick us up when we fall. There will be forks in the road, knives in your fucking back, mountains to climb, and we are only capable of living up to the image we create for ourselves. Prepare yourself!" -David Goggins
"I ran as fast as I could for as long as I could, from a past that no longer defined me, toward a future undetermined. All I knew was that there would be pain and there would be purpose." -David Goggins
"Because there is no finish line. There is always more to learn, and you will always have weaknesses to strengthen if you want to become as hard as woodpecker lips." -David Goggins
"My work ethic is the single most important factor in all of my accomplishments." -David Goggins
"Human beings change through study, habit, and stories. Through my story you will learn what the body and mind are capable of when they're driven to maximum capacity, and how to get there. Because when you're driven, whatever is in front of you, whether it's racism, sexism, injuries, divorce, depression, obesity, tragedy, or poverty, becomes fuel for your metamorphosis." -David Goggins
"No matter what you are dealing with, your goal should be to maximize the resources and capabilities you do have. If you've suffered a freak injury or received a diagnosis that changes everything, what does your new maximum effort level look like? A lot of people bide their time and wait to see what happens next, but a year or two later, they find they are still waiting. With every unfortunate turn in life, no matter how heavy the weight, you have to be committed to pushing back against that pressure with effort. No matter your age, abilities, disabilities, or responsibilities, we must all stay committed to finding our new benchmarks. Because not only does that keep your mind engaged and your demons at bay, you actually might achieve things the old you never could have conceived." -David Goggins
"When you complain and your mind starts groping for the eject button, you are not bringing your best self to the task, which means you are actually prolonging the pain." -David Goggins
"No matter who you are, life will present you similar opportunities where you can prove to be uncommon. There are people in all walks of life who relish those moments, and when I see them I recognize them immediately because they are usually that motherfucker who's all by himself. It's the suit who's still at the office at midnight while everyone else is at the bar, or the badass who hits the gym directly after coming off a forty-eight-hour op. She's the wildland firefighter who instead of hitting her bedroll, sharpens her chainsaw after working a fire for twenty-four hours. That mentality is there for all of us. Man, woman, straight, gay, black, white, or purple fucking polkadot. All of us can be the person who flies all day and night only to arrive home to a filthy house, and instead of blaming family or roommates, cleans it up right then because they refuse to ignore duties undone." -David Goggins
"We didn't care about muscle fatigue or breakdown because after a certain point we were training our minds, not our bodies. My workouts weren't designed to make us fast runners or to be the strongest men on the mission. I was training us to take torture so we'd remain relaxed in extraordinarily uncomfortable environments." -David Goggins
"Because life is one long motherfucking imaginary game that has no scoreboard, no referee, and isn't over until we're dead and buried." -David Goggins
"There is no more time to waste. Hours and days evaporate like creeks in the desert. That's why it's okay to be cruel to yourself as long as you realize you're doing it to become better. We all need thicker skin to improve in life. Being soft when you look in the mirror isn't going to inspire the wholesale changes we need to shift our present and open up our future." -David Goggins
"just because you believe something doesn't make it true. Denial is the ultimate comfort zone." -David Goggins
"If you want to maximize minimal potential and become great in any field, you must embrace your savage side and become imbalanced, at least for a period of time. You'll need to funnel every minute of every single day into the pursuit of that degree, that starting spot, that job, that edge. Your mind must never leave the cockpit. Sleep at the library or the office. Hoop long past sundown and fall asleep watching film of your next opponent. There are no days off, and there is no downtime when you are obsessed with being great. That is what it takes to be the baddest motherfucker ever at what you do. Know that your dedication will be misunderstood. Some relationships may break down. The savage is not a socialized beast, and an imbalanced lifestyle often appears selfish from the outside. But the reason I've been able to help so many people with my life story is precisely because I embraced being that imbalanced while I pursued the impossible dream of becoming the hardest motherfucker ever. That's a mythical title, but it became my compass bearing, my North Star. p111" -David Goggins
"Physical training is the perfect crucible to learn how to manage your thought process because when you're working out, your focus is more likely to be single pointed, and your response to stress and pain is immediate and measurable. Do you hammer hard and snag that personal best like you said you would, or do you crumble? That decision rarely comes down to physical ability, it's almost always a test of how well you are managing your own mind. If you push yourself through each split and use that energy to maintain a strong pace, you have a great chance of recording a faster time. Granted, some days it's easier to do that than others. And the clock, or the score, doesn't matter anyway." -David Goggins
"The bottom line is that life is one big mind game. The only person you are playing against is yourself." -David Goggins
"To make fun of or try to intimidate someone they didn't even know based on race alone was a clear indication that something was very wrong with them, not me." -David Goggins
"We can't rely on others to get us to where we need to be." -David Goggins
"if you accept the pain as a natural process and refuse to give in and give up, you will engage the sympathetic nervous system which shifts your hormonal flow." -David Goggins
"Motivation is crap. Motivation comes and goes. When you are driven, whatever is in front of you will get destroyed" -David Goggins
"In a society where mediocrity is too often the standard and too often rewarded," -David Gogginshe said, “there is intense fascination with men who detest mediocrity, who refuse to define themselves in conventional terms, and who seek to transcend traditionally recognized human capabilities." -David Goggins
"A prepared mind craves the worst conditions because it knows that pressure brings out its best and exposes almost everyone else." -David Goggins
"in every failure a lot of good things will have happened, and we must acknowledge them." -David Goggins
"The 40% Rule can be applied to everything we do. Because in life almost nothing will turn out exactly as we hope. There are always challenges, and whether we are at work or school, or feeling tested within our most intimate or important relationships, we will all be tempted to walk away from commitments, give up on our goals and dreams, and sell our own happiness short at some point. Because we will feel empty, like we have no more to give, when we haven't tapped even half of the treasure buried deep in our minds, hearts, and souls." -David Goggins
"Each hour of his week is dedicated to a particular task and when that hour shows up in real time, he focuses 100 percent on that task. That's how I do it too, because that is the only way to minimize wasted hours." -David Goggins
"They say there's always light at the end of the tunnel, but not once your eyes adjust to the darkness, and that's what happened to me. I was numb." -David Goggins
"Whatever it takes for you to believe that you're better than good enough to achieve your dreams is what you must do. And remember, your greatness is not tied to any outcome. It is found in the valiance of the attempt." -David Goggins
"We all have areas in our lives we either ignore or can improve upon. Find yours." -David Goggins
"Most people in the world, if they ever push themselves at all, are willing to push themselves only so far. Once they reach a cushy plateau, they chill the fuck out and enjoy their rewards, but there's another phrase for that mentality. It's called getting soft, and that I could not abide." -David Goggins
"Or I could leave all that behind for a world of possibility, much more pain, unfathomably hard work, and zero guarantees of success. I could choose resilience." -David Goggins
"neophyte," -David Goggins
"refused to compromise who I was to conform to their unwritten rules." -David Goggins
"When you're climbing a mountain or involved in any other difficult task, the only way to free yourself from the struggle is to finish it. So why bitch about it when it gets hard? Why hope it will end soon when you know it will end eventually? When you complain and your mind starts groping for the eject button, you are not bringing your best self to the task, which means you are actually prolonging the pain." -David Goggins
"Time stood still as I realized for the first time that I'd always looked at my entire life, everything I'd been through, from the wrong perspective. Yes, all the abuse I'd experienced and the negativity I had to push through challenged me to the core, but in that moment I stopped seeing myself as the victim of bad circumstance, and saw my life as the ultimate training ground instead. My disadvantages had been callousing my mind all along and had prepared me for that moment in that pool with Psycho Pete." -David Goggins
"This is not about changing your life instantly, it's about moving the needle bit by bit and making those changes sustainable. That means digging down to the micro level and doing something that sucks every day. Even if it's as simple as making your bed, doing the dishes, ironing your clothes, or getting up before dawn and running two miles each day." -David Goggins
"That's the beauty of discipline. It trumps everything. A lot of us are born with minimal talent, unhappy in our own skin and with the genetic makeup with which we were born. We have fucked-up parents, grow up bullied and abused, or are diagnosed with learning disabilities. We hate our hometown, our teachers, our families, and damn near everything about ourselves. We wish we could be born again as some other motherfucker in some other time and place. Well, I am proof that rebirth is possible through discipline, which is the only thing capable of altering your DNA. It is the skeleton key that can get you past all the gatekeepers and into each and every room you wish to enter. Even the ones built to keep you the fuck out! ...Discipline builds mental endurance because when effort is your main priority, you stop looking for everything to be enjoyable. Our phones and social media have turned too many of us inside out with envy and greed as we get inundated with other people's success, their new cars and houses, big contracts, resort vacations, and romantic getaways. We see how much fun everyone else is having and feel like the world is passing us by, so we bitch about it and then wonder why we are not where we want to be.When you become disciplined, you don't have time for that bullshit. p140" -David Goggins
"Out of every one hundred men," -David Gogginshe wrote, “ten shouldn't even be there, eighty are just targets, nine are the real fighters, and we are lucky to have them, for they make the battle. Ah, but the one, one is a warrior…" -David Goggins
"it doesn't matter where other people's attention lies. I had my own uncommon standards to live up to." -David Goggins
"Once you're in the heat of battle, it comes down to staying power. If it's a difficult physical challenge you will probably have to defeat your own demons before you can take your opponent's soul. That means rehearsing answers to the simple question that is sure to rise up like a thought bubble: “Why am I here?" -David GogginsIf you know that moment is coming and have your answer ready, you will be equipped to make the split second-decision to ignore your weakened mind and keep moving. Know why you're in the fight to stay in the fight!" -David Goggins
"Incremental progress is still progress, I said to myself. One step is all that is required to take the next one." -David Goggins
"No matter who you are, life will present you similar opportunities where you can prove to be uncommon. There are people in all walks of life who relish those moments, and when I see them I recognize them immediately because they are usually that motherfucker who's all by himself. It's the suit who's still at the office at midnight while everyone else is at the bar, or the badass who hits the gym directly after coming off a forty-eight-hour op." -David Goggins
"I know how it feels to be approaching an energetic dead end. I've been there too many times to count. I understand the temptation to sell short, but I also know that impulse is driven by your mind's desire for comfort, and it's not telling you the truth. It's your identity trying to find sanctuary, not help you grow. It's looking for status quo, not reaching for greatness or seeking wholeness. But the software update that you need to shut your governor down is no supersonic download. It takes twenty years to gain twenty years of experience, and the only way to move beyond your 40 percent is to callous your mind, day after day. Which means you'll have to chase pain like it's your damn job!" -David Goggins
"Yes, it was miserable, but I fucking loved it. I thrived off of the barbaric beauty of seeing the soul of a man destroyed, only to rise again and overcome every obstacle in his path." -David Goggins
"You have been preoccupied by bullshit for way too long. It's time to switch your focus to the things that will slingshot you forward." -David Goggins
"abandoned the path of least resistance, and sought out the difficult and most challenging tasks they could find." -David Goggins
"I live with a Day One, Week One mentality. This mentality is rooted in self-discipline, personal accountability, and humility. While most people stop when they're tired, I stop when I am done. In a world where mediocrity is often the standard, my life's mission is to become uncommon amongst the uncommon." -David Goggins
"a mindset so calloused and hard that it becomes bulletproof—you need to go to the source of all your fears and insecurities." -David Goggins
"Make sure your meal breaks are adequate but not open-ended, and schedule in exercise and rest too. But when it's time to rest, actually rest. No checking email or bullshitting on social media. If you are going to work hard you must also rest your brain." -David Goggins
"When people in white coats are treating your heart as a puzzle to be solved right in front of you, it's hard not to think that you're probably pretty fucked up." -David Goggins
"For years I've lived like a monk. I don't see or spend time with a lot of people. My circle is very tight. I post on social media once or twice a week and I never check anybody else's feeds because I don't follow anyone. That's just me." -David Goggins
"Just know that your supposed superiority is a figment of your own ego. So don't lord it over them, because it won't help you advance as a team or as an individual in your field. Instead of getting angry that your colleagues can't keep up, help pick your colleagues up and bring them with you!" -David Goggins
"Life is all about looking for tactical advantages," -David Goggins
"The first step on the journey toward a calloused mind is stepping outside your comfort zone on a regular basis. Dig out your journal again and write down all the things you don't like to do or that make you uncomfortable. Especially those things you know are good for you." -David Goggins
"hurts. Breaking the shackles and stretching beyond our own perceived limits takes hard fucking work—oftentimes physical work—and when you put yourself on the line, self doubt and pain will greet you with a stinging combination that will buckle your knees." -David Goggins
"It takes great strength to be vulnerable enough to put your ass on the line, in public, and work toward a dream that feels like it's slipping away." -David Goggins
"He'd calloused his mind plenty, but because his foundation was cracked, when shit got real he lost control of his mindset and became a slave to his self doubt." -David Goggins
"Back in SEAL training, I loved when people froze up and quit. I felt it elevated me in some way, but that was ego-driven immaturity and poor leadership. These days, I consider my business to make everyone better, no matter the job or situation. During my interview with the North Peace Smokejumpers, I was asked to describe my best quality.""If you hire me,"" I said, ""everyone in my class will graduate. [...]" -David Goggins
"Either way there would be suffering. I had to choose between physical suffering in the moment, and the mental anguish of wondering if that one missed pull-up, that last lap in the pool, the quarter mile I skipped on the road or trail, would end up costing me an opportunity of a lifetime. It was an easy choice." -David Goggins
"Know why you're in the fight to stay in the fight!" -David Goggins
"Imagine you're a boxer, and on your first day in the ring you take one on your chin. It's gonna hurt like fucking hell, but at year ten of being a boxer, you won't be stopped by one punch. You'll be able to absorb twelve rounds of getting beat the fuck down and come back the very next day and fight again. It's not that the punch has lost power. Your opponents will be even stronger. The change has happened within your brain. You've calloused your mind. Over a period of time, your tolerance for mental and physical suffering will have expanded because your software will have learned that you can take a hell of a lot more than one punch, and if you stay with any task that is trying to beat you down, you will reap rewards." -David Goggins
"Remember, visualization will never compensate for work undone. You cannot visualize lies." -David Goggins
"Whenever I cut a run or swim short because I was hungry or tired, I'd always go back and beat myself down even harder. That was the only way I could manage the demons in my mind." -David Goggins
"Breaking the shackles and stretching beyond our own perceived limits takes hard fucking work—oftentimes physical work—and when you put yourself on the line, self doubt and pain will greet you with a stinging combination that will buckle your knees." -David Goggins
"No doubt, you've heard this story before. Marcus wrote a bestselling book about it, Lone Survivor, which became a hit movie starring Mark Wahlberg." -David Goggins
"Roger that. It ain't your fucking fault that you were dealt a bad hand, but…it is your responsibility. How long will you allow your past to hold you back before you finally take control of your future?" -David Goggins
"I'd come to SEAL training to see if I was hard enough to belong and found an inner beast within that I never knew existed. A beast that I would tap into from then on whenever life went wrong. By the time I emerged from that ocean, I considered myself unbreakable." -David Goggins
"Physically I was strong, but I was not even close to mastering my mind." -David Goggins
"Don't stop when you are tired. Stop when you are done." -David Goggins
"So did I hang my head in shame and misery? Fuck no! To me a failure is just a stepping stone to future success." -David Goggins
"You've got to learn your brain like your brain has learned you." -David Goggins
"Sister Katherine is the reason why I'll never trust a smile or judge a scowl. My dad smiled" -David Goggins
"When you indulge in negative self-talk, the gifts of a sympathetic response will remain out of reach. However, if you can manage those moments of pain that come with maximum effort, by remembering what you've been through to get to that point in your life, you will be in a better position to persevere and choose fight over flight. That will allow you to use the adrenaline that comes with a sympathetic response to go even harder." -David Goggins
"Similar to using an opponent's energy to gain an advantage, leaning on your calloused mind in the heat of battle can shift your thinking as well. Remembering what you've been through and how that has strengthened your mindset can lift you out of a negative brain loop and help you bypass those weak, one-second impulses to give in so you can power through obstacles." -David Goggins
"Only you can master your mind, which is what it takes to live a bold life filled with accomplishments" -David Goggins
"if you look in the mirror and see someone who is obviously overweight, that means you're fucking fat" -David Goggins
"the confidence I'd managed to develop didn't come from a perfect family or God-given talent. It came from personal accountability which brought me self respect, and self respect will always light a way forward." -David Goggins
"The only way to achieve greatness in life is to have patience, consistency and discipline." -David Goggins
"If you were bullied, abused, or sexually assaulted and are willing to speak the unfiltered truth into the microphone and listen to it over and over, after" -David Goggins
"En una sociedad donde la mediocridad en demasiadas ocasiones es el estándar y es demasiado a menudo recompensada', dijo, “existe una intensa fascinación por los hombres que detestan la mediocridad, que se rehúsan a definirse a sí mismos en términos convencionales, y que buscan trascender las capacidades humanas tradicionalmente reconocidas" -David Goggins
"I didn't want or need a break because the uncommon among uncommon don't take breaks!" -David Goggins
"Yeah, I was hard on myself when I looked in the Accountability Mirror, but I also praised myself" -David Goggins
"It's up to you to find ways to eviscerate your bullshit. How much time do you spend at the dinner table talking about nothing after the meal is done? How many calls and texts do you send for no reason at all? Look at your whole life, list your obligations and tasks. Put a time stamp on them. How many hours are required to shop, eat, and clean? How much sleep do you need? What's your commute like? Can you make it there under your own power? Block everything into windows of time, and once your day is scheduled out, you'll know how much flexibility you have to exercise on a given day and how to maximize it." -David Goggins
"Sgt. Jack was a hard-ass teacher, but kids need hard-ass teachers sometimes. I know that might hurt your ears because things are different now. We are warned of the lasting effects of stress on children, and to compensate, parents strategize about how to make their children's lives comfortable and easy. But is the real world always comfortable? Is it easy? Life is not G-rated. We must prepare kids for the world as it is. Our generation is training kids to become full-fledged members of Entitlement Nation, which ultimately makes them easy prey for the lions among us. Our ever-softening society doesn't just affect children. Adults fall into the same trap. Even those of us who have achieved great things. Every single one of us is just another frog in the soon-to-be-boiling water that is our soft-ass culture. We take unforeseen obstacles personally. We are ready to be outraged at all times by the evil bullshit of the world. Believe me, I know all about evil and have dealt with more bullshit than most, but if you catalog your scars to use them as excuses or a bargaining chip to make life easier for yourself, you've missed an opportunity to become better and grow stronger. Sgt. Jack knew what awaited me as an adult. He was preparing me for the grip of life. Whether he knew it or not, the man was training me to be a savage." -David Goggins
"You cannot be afraid to disappoint people. You have to live the life you want to live." -David Goggins
"sometimes the unexpected descends like chaos, and without warning even the bravest among us must be ready to take on risks and tasks that seem beyond our capabilities." -David Goggins
"No matter what you or I achieve, in sports, business, or life, we can't be satisfied. Life is too dynamic a game. We're either getting better or we're getting worse." -David Goggins
"To develop an armored mind—a mindset so calloused and hard that it becomes bulletproof—you need to go to the source of all your fears and insecurities." -David Goggins
"quality. Spend extra time on your assignments. Write papers for her that she didn't even assign! Come early to class. Ask questions. Pay attention. Show her who you are and want to be. If it's a boss, work around the clock. Get to work before them. Leave after they go home. Make sure they see that shit, and when it's time to deliver, surpass their maximum expectations. Whoever" -David Goggins
"You are stopping you! You are giving up instead of getting hard! Tell the truth about the real reasons for your limitations and you will turn that negativity, which is real, into jet fuel. Those odds stacked against you will become a damn runway!" -David Goggins
"You need to stop talking like a wanna-be-gangster. None of this shit is gonna cut it! No more taking the easy way out! It's time to grow the fuck up!" -David Goggins
"If you truly want to become uncommon amongst the uncommon, it will require sustaining greatness for a long period of time. It requires staying in constant pursuit and putting out unending effort. This may sound appealing but will require everything you have to give and then some. Believe me, this is not for everyone because it will demand singular focus and may upset the balance in your life." -David Goggins
"It takes great strength to be vulnerable enough to put your ass on the line, in public, and work toward a dream that feels like it's slipping away. We all have eyeballs on us. Our family and friends are watching, and even if you're surrounded by positive people, they will have ideas about who you are, what you're good at, and how you should focus your energy. That shit is just human nature, and if you try to break out of their box you'll get some unsolicited advice that has a way of smothering your aspirations if you let" -David Goggins
"I turned off the television and thought about my own life. It was a life devoid of any drive and passion, but I knew if I continued to surrender to my fear and my feelings of inadequacy, I would be allowing them to dictate my future forever. My only other choice was to try and find the power in the emotions that had laid me low, harness and use them to empower me to rise up, which is exactly what I did." -David Goggins
"By the time I graduated, I knew that the confidence I'd managed to develop didn't come from a perfect family or God-given talent. It came from personal accountability, which brought me self-respect, and self-respect will always light a way forward" -David Goggins
"Insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting a different result" -David Goggins
"Repeat. Repetition will callous your mind." -David Goggins
"because the ticket to victory often comes down to bringing your very best when you feel your worst." -David Goggins
"You aren't missing out on opportunities, making shit money, and getting evicted because of America or Donald fucking Trump or because your ancestors were slaves or because some people hate immigrants or Jews or harass women or believe gay people are going to hell. If any of that shit is stopping you from excelling in life, I've got some news. You are stopping you!" -David Goggins
"Hell Week was a mind game. The instructors used our suffering to pick and peel away our layers, not to find the fittest athletes. To find the strongest minds. That's something the quitters didn't understand until it was too late." -David Goggins
"No matter who you are, life will present you similar opportunities where you can prove to be uncommon. There are people in all walks of life who relish those moments, and when I see them I recognize them immediately because they are usually that motherfucker who's all by himself. It's the suit who's still at the office at midnight while everyone else is at the bar, or the badass who hits the gym directly after coming off a forty-eight-hour op. She's the wildland firefighter who instead of hitting her bedroll, sharpens her chainsaw after working a fire for twenty-four hours. That mentality is there for all of us. Man, woman, straight, gay, black, white, or purple fucking polka dot. All of us can be the person who flies all day and night only to arrive home to a filthy house, and instead of blaming family or roommates, cleans it up right then because they refuse to ignore duties undone." -David Goggins
"Next, take inventory of your mind and body on the eve of battle. List out your insecurities and weakness, as well as your opponent's." -David Goggins
"The first step on the journey toward a calloused mind is stepping outside your comfort zone on a regular basis. Dig out your journal again and write down all the things you don't like to do or that make you uncomfortable. Especially those things you know are good for you. Now go do one of them, and do it again." -David Goggins
"So I sought out pain, fell in love with suffering, and eventually transformed myself from the weakest piece of shit on the planet into the hardest man God ever created, or so I tell myself." -David Goggins
"I brainwashed myself into craving discomfort. If it was raining, I would go run. Whenever it started snowing, my mind would say, Get your fucking running shoes on. Sometimes I wussed out and had to deal with it at the Accountability Mirror. But facing that mirror, facing myself, motivated me to fight through uncomfortable experiences, and, as a result, I became tougher. And being tough and resilient helped me meet my goals." -David Goggins
"Only when you identify and accept your weaknesses will you finally stop running from your past. Then those incidents can be used more efficiently as fuel to become better and grow stronger." -David Goggins
"Every minute you spend feeling sorry for yourself is another minute spent in the dungeon thinking about what you lost or the opportunities that have been snatched away or squandered, which inevitably leads to the Great Depression." -David Goggins
"Richter touched something in his rats that was dam near unbreakable. He may not have noticed them adapting to their life-or-death trial, but they had to have figured out a more efficient technique to preserve energy. With each passing minute, they became more and more resilient until they started to believe that they would survive. Their confidence didn't fade as the hours piled up; it actually grew. They weren't hoping to be saved. They refused to die! The way I see it, belief is what turned ordinary lab rats into marine mammals. p13" -David Goggins
"I had every excuse in the world to be a loser, and used them all." -David Goggins
"Then again, like the Taoists say, those that know don't speak, and those who speak, well, they don't know jack shit." -David Goggins
"At first, when you push beyond your perceived capability your mind won't shut the fuck up about it. It wants you to stop so it sends you into a spin cycle of panic and doubt, which only amplifies your self-torture. But when you persist past that to the point that pain fully saturates the mind, you become single-pointed. The external world zeroes out. Boundaries dissolve and you feel connected to yourself, and to all things, in the depth of your soul." -David Goggins
"My happiness is my reflection on the suffering during my journey and knowing that I never quit nor was I guided by anybody on this earth." -David Goggins
"Because when you're driven, whatever is in front of you, whether it's racism, sexism, injuries, divorce, depression, obesity, tragedy, or poverty, becomes fuel for your metamorphosis." -David Goggins
"All my fears came from that deep-seated uneasiness I carried with being David Goggins because of what I'd gone through. Even after I'd reached a point where I no longer cared about what others thought of me, I still had trouble accepting me." -David Goggins
"When you're that cold and stressed, the mind cannot comprehend the next 120-plus hours. Five and a half days without sleep cannot be broken up into small pieces. There is no way to systematically attack it, which is why every single person who has ever tried to become a SEAL has asked himself one simple question during their first dose of surf torture: “Why am I here?" -David Goggins
"And if you fail again, so the fuck be it. Take the pain. Repeat these steps and keep fighting. That's what it's all about." -David Goggins
"Over six months I went from having a fourth grade reading level to that of a senior in high school. My vocabulary mushroomed. I wrote out thousands of flash cards and went over them for hours, days, and weeks." -David Goggins
"I exist; therefore, I complete what I start. I take pride in my effort and in my performance in all phases of life. Just because I am here! If I'm lost, I will find myself. As long as I'm on planet Earth, I will not half-ass it. Anywhere I lack, I will improve because I exist and I am willing." -David Goggins
"Because you are one hard motherfucker," -David GogginsI screamed." -David Goggins
"in that moment I stopped seeing myself as the victim of bad circumstance, and saw my life as the ultimate training ground instead." -David Goggins
"impulse is driven by your mind's desire for comfort, and it's not telling you the truth." -David Goggins
"Don't kill them with kindness , Torture them with success." -David Goggins
"But that was nothing new. Who hasn't dreamed up a possibility for themselves only to have friends, colleagues, or family shit all over it? Most of us are motivated as hell to do anything to pursue our dreams until those around us remind us of the danger, the downside, our own limitations, and all the people before us that didn't make it. Sometimes the advice comes from a well-intentioned place. They really believe they are doing it for our own good but if you let them, these same people will talk you out of your dreams, and your governor will help them do it." -David Goggins
"Always be willing to embrace ignorance and become the idiot in the classroom again, because that is the only way to expand your body of knowledge and body of work. It's the only way to expand your mind." -David Goggins
"Most people who attempt to recover from an acute injury see their physical therapist a few times a week for an hour at most, yet they make that therapist their leader and convince themselves that it is the therapist's job to fix them. We can't rely on others to get us to where we need to be." -David Goggins
"That's the drawback of becoming uncommon amongst uncommon. You can push yourself to a place that is beyond the current capability or temporal mindset of the people you work with, and that's okay." -David Goggins
"In my mind I'm that racehorse always chasing a carrot I'll never catch, forever trying to prove myself to myself. And when you live that way and attain a goal, success feels anti-climactic." -David Goggins
"The sole reason I work out like I do isn't to prepare for and win ultra races. I don't have an athletic motive at all. It's to prepare my mind for life itself. Life will always be the most grueling endurance sport, and when you train hard, get uncomfortable, and callous your mind, you will become a more versatile competitor, trained to find a way forward no matter what." -David Goggins
"Remember, visualization will never compensate for work undone. You cannot visualize lies. All the strategies I employ to answer the simple questions and win the mind game are only effective because I put in the work. It's a lot more than mind over matter. It takes relentless self-discipline to schedule suffering into your day, every day, but if you do, you'll find that at the other end of that suffering is a whole other life just waiting for you." -David Goggins
"That's the drawback of becoming uncommon amongst uncommon. You can push yourself to a place that is beyond the current capability or temporal mindset of the people you work with, and that's okay. Just know that your supposed superiority is a figment of your own ego. So don't lord it over them, because it won't help you advance as a team or as an individual in your field. Instead of getting angry that your colleagues can't keep up, help pick your colleagues up and bring them with you!" -David Goggins
"to stress and pain is immediate and measurable. Do you hammer hard and snag that personal best like you said you would, or do you crumble? That decision rarely comes down to physical ability, it's almost always a test of how well you are managing your own mind." -David Goggins
"Motivation changes exactly nobody." -David Goggins
"We didn't care about muscle fatigue or breakdown because after a certain point we were training our minds, not our bodies." -David Goggins
"Your life is not fucked up because of overt racists or hidden systemic racism. You aren't missing out on opportunities, making shit money, and getting evicted because of America or Donald fucking Trump or because your ancestors were slaves or because some people hate immigrants or Jews or harass women or believe gay people are going to hell. If any of that shit is stopping you from excelling in life, I've got some news. You are stopping you!" -David Goggins
"the average person thinks 2,000–3,000 thoughts per hour. Rather than focusing on things you cannot change, imagine visualizing the things you can. Choose any obstacle in your way, or set a new goal, and visualize overcoming or achieving it." -David Goggins
"Life will always be the most grueling endurance sport, and when you train hard, get uncomfortable, and callous your mind, you will become a more versatile competitor, trained to find a way forward no matter what. Because there will be times when the shit life throws at you isn't minor at all. Sometimes life hits you dead in the fucking heart." -David Goggins
"Life is the most brutal endurance sport of all time!" -David Goggins
"I never needed to be the hardest motherfucker in the world. That became a goal because I knew it would bring out my best self. Which is what this fucked-up world needs from all of us: to evolve into the very best versions of ourselves. That's a moving target, and it isn't a one-time task. It is a lifelong quest for more knowledge, more courage, more humility, and more belief. Because when you summon the strength and discipline to live like that, the only thing limiting your horizons is you." -David Goggins
"Because you are one hard motherfucker," -David GogginsI screamed." -David Goggins
"And if you fail again, so the fuck be it. Take the pain. Repeat these steps and keep fighting. That's what it's all about." -David Goggins
"My happiness is my reflection on the suffering during my journey and knowing that I never quit nor was I guided by anybody on this earth." -David Goggins
"Next, take inventory of your mind and body on the eve of battle. List out your insecurities and weakness, as well as your opponent's." -David Goggins
"You need to stop talking like a wanna-be-gangster. None of this shit is gonna cut it! No more taking the easy way out! It's time to grow the fuck up!" -David Goggins
"We are all fighting the same battle. All of us are torn between comfort and performance, between settling for mediocrity or being willing to suffer in order to become our best self, all the damn time." -David Goggins
"It's not always going to be 70 and sunny." -David Goggins
"there's some men out" -David Goggins
"I ran as fast as I could for as long as I could, from a past that no longer defined me, toward a future undetermined. All I knew was that there would be pain and there would be purpose. And that I was ready." -David Goggins
"One of the hottest days of the year was in mid-July, when the mercury climbed above one hundred degrees and the humidity was over 80 percent. The heat index was off the charts, and the air quality was shit too. The county issued a warning advising residents to remain indoors. In Gogglish, that meant it was the perfect day for a twenty-two-mile run." -David Goggins
"Physical training is the perfect crucible to learn how to manage your thought process because when you're working out, your focus is more likely to be single pointed, and your response to stress and pain is immediate and measurable. Do you hammer hard and snag that personal best like you said you would, or do you crumble? That decision rarely comes down to physical ability, it's almost always a test of how well you are managing your own mind." -David Goggins
"You're not hurting me! Is that all you fucking have?" -David GogginsI'd shout back. I wanted him to know that I could take more pain than he could ever deliver, but when it was time to fall asleep and there were no more battles to fight, no place to hide, I wet the bed. Nearly every night." -David Goggins
"It's about constant effort, learning, and adaptation, which demands unwavering discipline and belief. The kind that looks a lot like desperation." -David Goggins
"Fue entonces que me di cuenta por primera ocasión que no todas las limitaciones físicas y mentales son reales, y que yo tenía un hábito de rendirme demasiado pronto." -David Goggins
"Physical training is the perfect crucible to learn how to manage your thought process because when you're working out, your focus is more likely to be single pointed, and your response to stress and pain is immediate and measurable." -David Goggins
"Always be ready to adjust, recalibrate, and stay after it to become better, somehow." -David Goggins
"When a half-assed job doesn't bother you, it speaks volumes about the kind of person you are. And until you start feeling a sense of pride and self-respect in the work you do, no matter how small or overlooked those jobs might be, you will continue to half-ass your life. I knew I had every reason in the world to rebel and remain a lazy motherfucker. I also sensed that would only make me more miserable, so I adapted. But no matter how well I did or how fast I completed a given task, there were no atta' boys or weekly allowance. No ice cream cones or surprise gifts, hugs, or high fives. In Sgt. Jack's mind, I was finally doing what I should have been doing all along. My grandparents weren't ice-cold to everyone." -David Goggins
"Running had long ago become like breathing to me. It wasn't a hobby; it as damn near a subconscious biological reflex. I had to do it." -David Goggins
"palpitations" -David Goggins
"I found the milk machine, pulled the lever down and watched, confused, as it funneled out, chunky as cottage cheese. I shrugged and sniffed. It smelled all kinds of wrong, but I remember downing that spoiled milk like it was a fresh glass of sweet tea, courtesy of another hellacious special forces school that put us through so much, by the end anybody who survived was grateful for their cold glass of spoiled milk." -David Goggins
"When you have a shitty day, it's tempting to call it an early night and try to forget about it, but if you go to bed in the red, chances are you'll wake up that way, and all too often, that type of negativity snowballs." -David Goggins
"Whatever failures and accomplishments pile up in the years to come, and there will be plenty of both I'm sure, I know I'll continue to give it my all and set goals that seem impossible to most. And when those motherfuckers say so, I'll look them dead in the eye and respond with one simple question. What if?" -David Goggins
"Time and opportunity are never on your side. Achieve your highest form of self." -David Goggins
"It does something to you when you are running close to what you perceive as our limit (back then, I still topped at 40 percent) and there is someone else out there who makes the difficult look effortless. It was obvious that his preparedness was several levels above our own. Captain Connolly did not show up to simply get through the program and graduate so he could collect some wings for his uniform and belong to the unspoken fraternity of supposed badasses at Fort Campbell. He came to explore what he was made of and grow. That required a willingness to set a new standard wherever possible and make a statement, not necessarily to our dumb asses, but to himself. He was respectful to all the instructors and the school, but he was not there to be led...Most people love standards. It gives the brain something to focus on, which helps us reach a place of achievement. Organizational structure and atta' boys from our instructors or bosses keep us motivated to perform and to move up on that bell curve. Captain Connolly did not require external motivation. He trained to his own standard and used the existing structure for his own purposes. Air Assault School became his own personal octagon, where he could test himself on a level even the instructors hadn't imagined. For the next nine days, he put his head down and quietly went about the business of smashing every single standard at Air Assault School. He saw the bar that the instructors pointed to and the rest of us were trying to tap as a hurdle to leap over, and he did it time and again. He understood that his rank only meant something if he sought out a different certification: an invisible badge that says, ""I am the example. Follow me, motherfuckers, and I will show you that there is more to this life than so-called authority and stripes or candy on a uniform. I'll show you what true ambition looks like beyond all the external structure in a place of limitless mental growth.""He didn't say any of that. He didn't run his mouth at all. I can't recall him uttering word one in ten fucking days, but through his performance and extreme dedication, he dropped breadcrumbs for anybody who was awake and aware enough to follow him. He flashed his tool kit. He showed us what potent, silent, exemplary leadership looked like. He checked into every Gold Group run, which was led by the fastest instructor in that school, and volunteered to be the first to carry the flag. p237" -David Goggins
"Self talk without the effort is just lies" -David Goggins
"now until the end will only make you harder!" -David Goggins
"What if?' …Silences negativity. 'What if' is the power of information to face your darkest demons… We live in a world with a lot of jealous, insecure people. Failure terrifies them, so does our success. Because when we transcend what we once thought possible, push our limits and become more, our light reflects off all the walls they built around them. Your light enables them to see the contours of their own prison… if they are truly the great people you envision them to be, their jealousy will evolve…" -David Goggins
"It takes twenty years to gain twenty years of experience, and the only way to move beyond your 40 percent is to callous your mind, day after day. Which means you'll have to chase pain like it's your damn job!" -David Goggins
"Torch the complacency you feel gathering around you, your coworkers, and teammates in that rare air." -David Goggins
"People who feel sorry for themselves are obsessed with their own problems and their own fate. Is that really much different than the greedy and egotistical people who want to feel better than everybody else? The higher I climb in my life, the more I realize how much I need to mop that floor. Because that's where all the knowledge is. There is no grit at the top, no tests of resolve in steak dinners, five-star hotels, or spa treatments. Once you make it in this world, you have to freefall back to the bottom in some way to keep learning and growing. I call this ""trained humility."" It's a shedding of your skin that allows you to take on a mission that on one else can see and do whatever needs to be done next. Trained humility is service but also strength. Because, when you are humble enough to remember that you'll never know it all, each lesson you learn only makes you hungrier to learn more, and that will put you on a path that guarantees you will grow all the way to the grave. p152" -David Goggins
"Life is a head game." -David Goggins
"But when you have no confidence it becomes easy to value other people's opinions," -David Goggins
"Taoists say, those that know don't speak, and those who speak, well, they don't know jack shit." -David Goggins
"He was the first one to show me how to do more with less and that it was not just possible to dig deeper but mandatory if you are striving to be your best self. When I eclipsed his time, I realized I was no longer chasing Captain Connolly. From then on, every school, course, race, or record I took on became an arena for my own self-development." -David Goggins
"held me hostage until I quit. The more" -David Goggins
"In order to do that we must change our minds, be willing to scrap our identity, and make the extra effort to always find more in order to become more." -David Goggins
"Everything I did was to get a reaction out of the people who hated me most because everyone's opinion of me mattered to me, and that's a shallow way to live." -David Goggins
"there is intense fascination with men who detest mediocrity, who refuse to define themselves in conventional terms, and who seek to transcend traditionally recognized human capabilities." -David Goggins
"The engine in a rocket ship does not fire without a small spark first. We all need small sparks, small accomplishments in our lives to fuel the big ones. Think of your small accomplishments as kindling. When you want a bonfire, you don't start by lighting a big log. You collect some witch's hair—a small pile of hay or some dry, dead grass. You light that, and then add small sticks and bigger sticks before you feed your tree stump into the blaze. Because it's the small sparks, which start small fires, that eventually build enough heat to burn the whole fucking forest down." -David Goggins
"Tell yourself, I'm good here. I'm great there. This sucks, but it will be over in twenty minutes. Maybe it's twenty miles or twenty days or twenty weeks, but it doesn't matter. Every experience on earth is finite. It will end someday, and that makes it doable, but the outcome hinges on those crucial seconds you must win!" -David Goggins
"Prepare yourself! We know life can be hard, and yet we feel sorry for ourselves when it isn't fair. From this point forward, accept the following as Goggins's laws of nature: You will be made fun of. You will feel insecure. You may not be the best all the time. You may be the only black, white, Asian, Latino, female, male, gay, lesbian or [fill in your identity here] in a given situation. There will be times when you feel alone. Get over it!" -David Goggins
"It's almost like, no matter who our parents are and what they do, we're all born with a moral compass that's properly tuned." -David Goggins
"The sympathetic nervous system is your fight or flight reflex. It's bubbling just below the surface, and when you are lost, stressed out, or struggling, like I was when I was a down and out kid, that's the part of your mind that's driving the bus. We've all tasted this feeling before. Those mornings when going on a run is the last thing you want to do, but then twenty minutes into it you feel energized, that's the work of the sympathetic nervous system. What I've found is that you can tap into it on-call as long as you know how to manage your own mind." -David Goggins
"The way we speak to ourselves in moments of doubt is crucial, whether or not the stakes are high. Because our words become actions, and our actions build habits" -David Goggins
"I looked at the people who were making me feel uncomfortable and realized how uncomfortable they were in their own skin. To make fun of or try to intimidate someone they didn't even know based on race alone was a clear indication that something was very wrong with them, not me. But when you have no confidence it becomes easy to value other people's opinions, and I was valuing everyone's opinion without considering" -David Goggins
"We have to learn to stop looking for a sign that the hard time will end. When the distance is unknown, it is even more critical that you stay locked in so the unknown factor doesn't steal your focus. The end will come when it comes, and anticipation will only distract you from completing the task in front of you to the best of your ability. Remember, the struggle is the whole journey. That's why you're out there. It's why you signed up for this race, or that class, or took the damn job. There is great beauty when you are involved in something that is so hard most people want it to end. When Hell Week ended, most of the guys who survived cheered, wept tears of joy, high-fived, or hugged one another. I got the Hell Week blues because I'd been immersed in the beauty of grinding through it and the personal growth that came with it. p101" -David Goggins
"I was still full-time in the military, so I had to wake up extra early to fit in my fifty- to one hundred-mile rides before work." -David Goggins
"Because in the heat of battle, when shit gets real, we need to draw inspiration to push through our own exhaustion, depression, pain, and misery. We need to spark a bunch of small fires to become the motherfucking inferno." -David Goggins
"Starting at zero is a mindset that says my refrigerator is never full, and it never will be. We can always become stronger and more agile, mentally and physically. We can always become more capable and more reliable. Since that's the case we should never feel that our work is done. There is always more to do." -David Goggins
"I had to remain vigilant and manage my mind for every single one of those seconds to make it." -David Goggins
"there was no time to dwell on fear. There was no choice to make at all." -David Goggins
"I remember my very first day in the gym back in Indiana. My palms were soft and quickly got torn up on the bars because they weren't accustomed to gripping steel. But over time, after thousands of reps, my palms built up a thick callous as protection. The same principle works when it comes to mindset. Until you experience hardships like abuse and bullying, failures and disappointments, your mind will remain soft and exposed. Life experience, especially negative experiences, help callous the mind. But it's up to you where that callous lines up. If you choose to see yourself as a victim of circumstance into adulthood, that callous will become resentment that protects you from the unfamiliar. It will make you too cautious and untrusting, and possibly too angry at the world. It will make you fearful of change and hard to reach, but not hard of mind. That's where I was as a teenager, but after my second Hell Week, I'd become someone new. I'd fought through so many horrible situations by then and remained open and ready for more. My ability to stay open represented a willingness to fight for my own life, which allowed me to withstand hailstorms of pain and use it to callous over my victim's mentality. That shit was gone, buried under layers of sweat and hard fucking flesh, and I was starting to callous over my fears too. That realization gave me the mental edge I needed to outlast Psycho Pete one more time." -David Goggins
"San Diego Marina from the open Pacific Ocean. But even Cali's golden sun couldn't pretty up the Grinder, and thank God for that. I liked it ugly. That slab of agony was everything I'd ever wanted. Not because I loved to suffer, but because I needed to know whether or not I had what it took to belong." -David Goggins
"he wrote about men on the battlefield. “Out of every one hundred men," -David Gogginshe wrote, “ten shouldn't even be there, eighty are just targets, nine are the real fighters, and we are lucky to have them, for they make the battle. Ah, but the one, one is a warrior…" -David Goggins
"The one luxury we had during Hell Week was chow. We ate like kings. We're talking omelets, roast chicken and potatoes, steak, hot soup, pasta with meat sauce, all kinds of fruit, brownies, soda, coffee, and a lot more. The catch is we had to run the mile there and back, with that 200-pound boat on our heads. I always left chow hall with a peanut butter sandwich tucked in my wet and sandy pocket to scarf on the beach when the instructors weren't looking." -David Goggins
"It's about constant effort, learning, and adaptation, which demands unwavering discipline and belief." -David Goggins
"Everything in life comes down to how we handle those crucial seconds. When psychological, physical, or emotional pressure redlines, your adrenal glands go haywire, and you are no longer in control. What separates a true savage from everybody else is the ability to regain control of their mind in that split second, despite the fact that all is still fucked!" -David Goggins
"But I wasn't wired normal." -David Goggins
"From that point on, each run, every hour on the pull-up bar, and all my late-night study sessions became experiments conducted to see how long my mind would hold out when I continued to apply more and more pressure." -David Goggins
"Evaluate your life in its totality! We all waste so much time doing meaningless bullshit. We burn hours on social media and watching television, which by the end of the year would add up to entire days and weeks if you tabulated time like you do your taxes. You should, because if you knew the truth you'd deactivate your Facebook account STAT, and cut your cable. When you find yourself having frivolous conversations or becoming ensnared in activities that don't better you in any way, move the fuck on!" -David Goggins
"Life is too dynamic a game. We're either getting better or we're getting worse." -David Goggins
"Each specific life comes with its own personalized portion of pain." -David Goggins
"tacked Post-It notes on my Accountability Mirror, and I'll ask you to do the same. Digital devices won't work. Write all your insecurities, dreams, and goals on Post-Its and tag up your mirror. If you need more education, remind yourself that you need to start working your ass off because you aren't smart enough! Period, point blank. If you look in the mirror and see someone who is obviously overweight, that means you're fucking fat! Own it! It's okay to be unkind with yourself in these moments because we need thicker skin to improve in life." -David Goggins
"On the drive back home, I turned the volume way down on the nurturing voice in my head and tuned into reality. In place of excuses, it was time for ownership of exactly who I'd become in all of its ugliness, and that meant acknowledging that my thin skin was definitely part of the problem." -David Goggins
"We have access to so many more resources today than ever before and yet we are so much less capable than those who came before us. If you want to be one of the few to defy those trends in our ever-softening society, you will have to be willing to go to war with yourself and create a whole new identity, which requires an open mind. It's funny, being open-minded is often tagged as new age or soft. Fuck that. Being open-minded enough to find a way is old school. It's what knuckle draggers do. And that's exactly what I did." -David Goggins
"If you take what they do or say less personally, they no longer hold any cards. Feelings are just feelings." -David Goggins
"knew that if I could control my attitude and redirect my attention, I'd gain control of the entire situation." -David Goggins
"You can tolerate doubt as a backseat driver, but if you put doubt in the pilot's seat, defeat is guaranteed." -David Goggins
"Goggins' laws of nature: You will be made fun of. You will feel insecure. You may not be the best all the time. You may be the only black, white, Asian, Latino, female, male, gay, lesbian or [fill in your identity here] in a given situation. There will be times when you feel alone. Get over it!" -David Goggins
"Our culture has become hooked on the quick-fix, the life hack, efficiency. Everyone is on the hunt for that simple action algorithm that nets maximum profit with the least amount of effort." -David Goggins
"Roger That" -David Goggins
"Just as stem cells produce a growth factor that stimulates cellular communication, muscle growth, and wound healing in the body, fear is a seedpod packed with growth factor for the mind." -David Goggins
"For many people, the haunting begins the minute they wake up. Maybe they are fat or disabled, feel ugly, or are failing and overwhelmed at school or work, and it consumes them. Their obsession with their own imperfections and faults suffocates self-respect and submarines progress, and from the time they get out of bed until they are able to crawl back in that night, the only thing on their agenda is avoiding exposure and surviving another day in hell." -David Goggins
"The reason it's important to push hardest when you want to quit the most is because it helps you callous your mind." -David Goggins
"Race Across America" -David Goggins
"Mr. Skop is dead," -David Gogginshe said. He took stock of the room. His words had been a collective gut punch to men who were already on the knife's edge after nearly a week with no sleep and no relief. SBG didn't give a fuck. “This is the world you live in. He's not the first and he won't be the last to die in your line of work." -David GogginsHe looked over at Mr. Skop's roommate and said, “Mr. Moore, don't steal any of his shit." -David GogginsThen he left the room like it was just another fucked-up day." -David Goggins
"alright" -David Goggins
"Six months later, though I still loathed the man, I changed my approach to the task list. I got up after the first wake-up call without delay. There would be no more early-morning baptisms for me. Instead, I focused on the details Sgt. Jack always noticed and finished each job right the first time. That was the only way I'd get any free time to play basketball. However, my new approach produced an unexpected side effect as well: a sense of pride in a job well done. In fact, that sense of pride came to mean more to me than basketball time. When I washed his car collection, a weekly assignment, I knew every drop of water had to be wiped away with a chamois before the first coat of wax. I used SOS pads to get the white walls gleaming and buffed the hell out of every panel. I also used Armor All on the dashboards and all the vinyl insides. I buffed the leather seats too. It bothered me if I saw streaks on the glass or chrome. I was annoyed if I missed a soiled spot or cut a corner here or there on any chore. I didn't know it at the time, but that was a sign that I was actually healing. When a half-assed job doesn't bother you, it speaks volumes about the kind of person you are. And until you start feeling a sense of pride and self-respect in the work you do, no matter how small or overlooked those jobs might be, you will continue to half-ass your life. I knew I had every reason in the world to rebel and remain a lazy motherfucker. I also sensed that would only make me more miserable, so I adapted. But no matter how well I did or how fast I completed a given task, there were no atta' boys or weekly allowance. No ice cream cones or surprise gifts, hugs, or high fives. In Sgt. Jack's mind, I was finally doing what I should have been doing all along." -David Goggins
"I was twenty-four years old when I realized I was broken inside. Something had gone numb in my soul, and that numbness, that lack of deep feeling, dictated what my life had become. It's why I quit going after my goals, my biggest dreams, whenever things got hard. Quitting was just another detour. It never bothered me much because when you're numb, you can't process what's happening to you or within you." -David Goggins
"David, this is sheer ignorance," -David Gogginshe said. “They don't even know how to spell nigger." -David Goggins
"We wonder what it would be like if we looked different, had more of a head start, or were given a boost at one time or another. Very few people question their own warped minds." -David Goggins
"And looking back, every single time I've been inspired to do something difficult, I was in a soft environment, because it all sounds doable when you're chilling on your fucking couch, with a glass of lemonade or a chocolate shake in your hand." -David Goggins
"oblivious" -David Goggins
"all emotional and physical anguish is finite!" -David Goggins
"Everything in life is a mind game! Whenever we get swept under by life's dramas, large and small, we are forgetting that no matter how bad the pain gets, no matter how harrowing the torture, all bad things end. That forgetting happens the second we give control over our emotions and actions to other people, which can easily happen when pain is peaking. During Hell Week, the men who quit felt like they were running on a treadmill turned way the fuck up with no dashboard within reach. But, whether they ever figured it out or not, that was an illusion they fell for." -David Goggins
"Use your smartphone for productivity hacks, not click bait. Turn on your calendar alerts. Have those alarms set." -David Goggins
"When you're born a loser, your goal is to survive, not thrive. You learn to lie, to cheat, to do what it takes to fit in. You may become a survivor, but it's a miserable existence. Just like the cockroaches I was assigned to kill, you find yourself scurrying in from the shadows to claim the bare necessities while hiding your true self from the light at all costs. Born losers are the ultimate cockroaches. We do what we have to, and that attitude often enables some pretty severe character defects." -David Goggins
"Sounds simple, right? It isn't. Very few people even bother to try to control the way their thoughts and doubts bubble up." -David Goggins
"Life will always be the most grueling endurance sport, and when you train hard, get uncomfortable, and callous your mind, you will become a more versatile competitor, trained to find a way forward no matter what." -David Goggins
"it's up to you where that callous lines up. If you choose to see yourself as a victim of circumstance into adulthood, that callous will become resentment that protects you from the unfamiliar. It will make you too cautious and untrusting, and possibly too angry at the world." -David Goggins
"Imagine being the only black kid in class, in the entire school, and enduring the daily humiliation of also being the dumbest. I felt like everything I tried to do or say was wrong," -David Goggins
"Remembering what you've been through and how that has strengthened your mindset can lift you out of a negative brain loop and help you bypass those weak, one-second impulses to give in so you can power through obstacles." -David Goggins
"Sometimes your motivation needs to be because no one else wants to fucking do it. We need doctors, we need lawyers, we need dentists, we need teachers. We also need fucking savages." -David Goggins
"My stuttering surfaced midway through third grade in my second year in Brazil, Indiana. By the time I was in fifth, I couldn't say three words without stammering. It was especially bad around grown-ups and strangers and at its absolute worst when public speaking was involved. I'll never forget the school play. Everyone knew I stuttered, but since participation was mandatory, my teacher mercifully assigned me a role with just one line. I practiced it at home a hundred times. Sometimes, I'd stumble. Usually, it came out smooth and wrinkle-free, but under those stage lights, I locked up. The silence was intolerable. There were fifteen, twenty people in attendance at most, all of them were parents, and you couldn't ask for a more supportive audience. Everyone waited patiently, almost willing me to speak. A few of my classmates snickered, but most were rooting for me. My teacher watched with wide, sensitive eyes as my lower lip trembled. I knew it was hopeless, so I turned and left the stage without even trying." -David Goggins
"If you have worked for thirty years doing the same shit you've hated day in and day out because you were afraid to quit and take a risk, you've been living like a pussy. Period, point blank. Tell yourself the truth! That you've wasted enough time, and that you have other dreams that will take courage to realize, so you don't die a fucking pussy. Call yourself out!" -David Goggins
"Self-respect will always light a way forward." -David Goggins
"I am that One Warrior. And the story you are about to read, the story of my fucked-up life, will illuminate a proven path to self-mastery and empower you to face reality, hold yourself accountable, push past pain, learn to love what you fear, relish failure, live to your fullest potential, and find out who you really are." -David Goggins
"I don't jump to earth from outer space, but I know that atmospheric line between blue and black. It is the glimmer of greatness that runs right through the human soul. We all have it. Most of us will never see it because to get there requires a willingness to extend yourself to the limit without any guarantee of success. p276" -David Goggins
"I turned off the television and thought about my own life." -David Goggins
"That memory had dominated me for years, but after 130 hours of Hell, it no longer defined me." -David Goggins
"It became an obsession I couldn't shake." -David Goggins
"In every failure s lot of good things will have happened, and we must acknowledge them." -David Goggins
"In order to execute on your willingness to succeed, you will need to be able to perform without purpose. You've heard of purpose, that magical missing ingredient crucial to landing a fulfilling career and building a happy life. What if I told you the importance of finding your purpose was overblown? What if there never was any such thing as your good friend purpose? What if it doesn't matter what the fuck you do with your time here? What if it's all arbitrary and life doesn't give a flying fuck if you want to be happy? What then?All I know is this: I am David Fucking Goggins. I exist; therefore, I complete what I start. I take pride in my effort and in my performance in all phases of life. Just because I am here! If I'm lost, I will find myself. As long as I'm on planet Earth, I will not half-ass it. Anywhere I lack, I will improve because I exist and I am willing. p173" -David Goggins
"Whatever popped up in front of me had to be dealt with head-on because the full-time savage sees everything in life as an opportunity to learn, adapt, and evolve." -David Goggins
"It's a constant dance between competition and camaraderie," -David Goggins
"There are 86,400 seconds in a day. Losing just one of those seconds can change the outcome of your day and, potentially, your life." -David Goggins
"It's okay to be cruel to yourself as long as you realize you're doing it to become better." -David Goggins
"Just as stem cells produce a growth factor that stimulates cellular communication, muscle growth, and wound healing in the body, fear is a seedpod packed with growth factor for the mind. When you deliberately and consistently confront your fear of heights or particular people, places, and situations that unsettle you, those seeds germinate, and your confidence grows exponentially. You might still hate jumping off high things or swimming beyond the waves, but your willingness to keep doing it will help you make peace with it. You may even be inspired to try to master it. That's how a kid who was afraid of the water his whole life became a Navy SEAL." -David Goggins
"Like most battles we fight in life, would be won or lost in our own minds." -David Goggins
"That's the drawback of becoming uncommon among the uncommon. You can push yourself to a place that is beyond the current capacity or temporal mindset of the people you work with, and that's okay. Just know that your supposed superiority is a figment of your own ego." -David Goggins
"All you see is negativity. For me, the only way to make it through that was to feed off my depression. I had to flip it and convince myself that all that self-doubt and anxiety was confirmation that I was no longer living an aimless life. My task may turn out to be impossible but at least I was back on a motherfucking mission." -David Goggins
"A true leader stays exhausted, abhors arrogance, and never looks down on the weakest link. He fights for his men and leads by example" -David Goggins
"To exist in this world, we must contend with humiliation, broken dreams, sadness, and loss. That's just nature. Each specific life comes with its own personalized portion of pain. It's coming for you. You can't stop it. And you know it." -David Goggins
"Then again, like the Taoists say, those that know don't speak, and those who speak, well, they don't know jack." -David Goggins
"I don't know where you think you men are, but if you expect to become Rangers then I expect you to know our creed." -David GogginsHis eyes found me. “I know for a fact Old Navy here doesn't know the Ranger Creed." -David GogginsI'd been studying it for months and could have recited it while standing on my head. For effect, I cleared my throat and got loud. “Recognizing that I volunteered as a Ranger, fully knowing the hazards of my chosen profession, I will always endeavor to uphold the prestige, honor, and high spirit de corps of the Rangers!" -David Goggins“Very surpri…" -David GogginsHe tried to cut me off, but I wasn't done. “Acknowledging the fact that a Ranger is a more elite Soldier who arrives at the cutting edge of battle by land, sea, or air, I accept the fact that as a Ranger my country expects me to move further, faster, and fight harder than any other Solider!" -David GogginsThe RI nodded with a wry smile, but this time stayed out of my way. “Never shall I fail my comrades! I will always keep myself mentally alert, physically strong, and morally straight, and I will shoulder more than my share of the task whatever it may be, 100 percent and then some! “Gallantly will I show the world that I am a specially selected and well-trained Soldier! My courtesy to superior officers, neatness of dress, and care of equipment shall set the example for others to follow! “Energetically will I meet the enemies of my country! I shall defeat them on the field of battle for I am better trained and will fight with all my might! Surrender is not a Ranger word! I will never leave a fallen comrade to fall into the hands of the enemy and under no circumstances will I ever embarrass my country! “Readily will I display the intestinal fortitude required to fight on to the Ranger objective and complete the mission though I be the lone survivor! “Rangers lead the way!" -David GogginsI recited all six stanzas, and afterward he shook his head in disbelief, and mulled the ideal way to get the last laugh. “Congratulations, Goggins," -David Gogginshe said, “you are now first sergeant." -David Goggins
"Now, over seventy-five miles into one of the most difficult races on earth, I felt unnaturally strong, which is exactly why those images from my fifth-grade play continued to run on a loop in my mind's eye. Your strongest moments will often make you think of your weakest. I was pushing so hard my perspective ran deep, and I felt for that kid, knowing he allowed situations to dominate him for way too long. But I was proud of him too. For overcoming all of that. It is truly amazing what that little motherfucker accomplished." -David Goggins
"Siempre que seas el único de tu tipo, estás en peligro de ser empujado hacia los márgenes, de ser puesto en sospecha e ignorado, acosado y maltratado por gente ignorante." -David Goggins
"In a society where mediocrity is too often the standard and too often rewarded," -David Gogginshe said, “there is intense fascination with men who detest mediocrity, who refuse to define themselves in conventional terms, and who seek to transcend traditionally recognized human capabilities. This is exactly the type of person BUD/S is meant to find. The man who finds a way to complete each and every task to the best of his ability. The man who will adapt and overcome any and all obstacles." -David Goggins
"Seeds burst from the inside out in a self-destructive ritual of new life." -David Goggins
"Mind you, the rest of my progress could not be described as a blink-and-you'll-miss-it metamorphosis." -David Goggins
"I wanted to haunt them when they slipped into bed with their wives. I wanted to occupy so much space in their minds that they couldn't even get it up. To me, that would be as powerful as putting a knife in their dick. So I deployed a process that I now call “Taking Souls." -David Goggins
"the ticket to victory often comes down to bringing your very best when you feel your worst." -David Goggins
"He would never have invited my wanna-be-thug ass to come chill with him in Kona luxury back in the day. He only reached out because I'd become somebody a rich guy like him wanted to know." -David Goggins
"SATs. It's a standardized test that allows the military to assess your current knowledge and future potential for learning at the same time, and I showed up for that test prepared to do what I did best: cheat. I'd been copying on every test, in every class, for years, but when I took my" -David Goggins
"Your problems and your past aren't on anybody else's agenda. Not really. You may have a few people in your inner circle who care about what you're going through, but for the most part, no one cares that much because they're dealing with their own issues and focused on their own lives." -David Goggins
"That forgetting happens the second we give control over our emotions and actions to other people, which can easily happen when pain is peaking." -David Goggins
"It's funny, we question so many things about the way our lives are going. We wonder what it would be like if we looked different, had more of a head start, or were given a boost at one time or another. Very few people question their own warped minds. Instead, they collect slights, dramas, and problems, hoarding them until they are bloated with stale regret and envy, which form the roadblocks stopping them from becoming their truest, most capable selves." -David Goggins
"se gana cada día al levantarte temprano, retándote con nuevos sueños o desenterrando viejas pesadillas y aceptando con los brazos abiertos lo que esté jodido como si no tuvieras nada ni nunca hubieras hecho una maldita cosa en tu vida." -David Goggins
"She'd swallowed more pain than anyone I'd ever known, and I wanted to remind her that we'd climbed out of that gutter, while I kept my own gaze locked at sewer level." -David Goggins
"Moments of doubt are unavoidable when we take on any strenuous task. I've used the One-Second Decision to regain my composure and win hundreds of small battles during ultra races, on the pull-up bar, and in stressful work situations. And the first step is to mentally take a knee. The best person in any combat scenario is the one who is composed enough to take a knee when the bullets are flying at them. They know they need to evaluate the situation and the landscape to find a way forward and that it's impossible to make a conscious decision if they or their team is running around like fire ants. Taking a knee in battle is not as easy as it sounds, but it's the only way to give yourself time to breathe through the panic and rein in your spinning mind so you are able to operate. The battle hasn't stopped. Gunfire is still lighting up the night, and you dont have any time to waste. In that one second, you must take a breath and decide to bring the fight. When you are in the grip of life and in danger of losing your shit, just think, It's time to take a knee. Get a couple of breaths and flash to your future. If you fold, what will happen next? What's your plan B? This is not some deep contemplation. There is no time to order a pizza and hash it out with your people. This must happen in seconds! p90" -David Goggins
"And yet, I was breathing free, and I was not bleeding. Physically, I was alive and well and perfectly capable of cutting all of that bullshit away. I'd wasted way too much of my life telling myself the same sad story. I needed to move forward. It was time to write something new." -David Goggins
"At first, when you push beyond your perceived capability your mind won't shut the fuck up about it. It wants you to stop so it sends you into a spin cycle of panic and doubt, which only amplifies your self-torture. But when you persist past that to the point that pain fully saturates the mind, you become single-pointed. The external world zeroes out. Boundaries dissolve and you feel connected to yourself, and to all things, in the depth of your soul. That's what I was after. Those moments of total connection and power, which came through me again in an even deeper way as I reflected on where I'd come from and all I'd put myself through." -David Goggins
"The more often you get uncomfortable the stronger you'll become, and soon you'll develop a more productive, can-do dialogue with yourself in stressful situations." -David Goggins
"Anywhere I lack, I will improve because I exist and I am willing." -David Goggins
"you want to master the mind and remove your governor, you'll have to become addicted to hard work. Because passion and obsession, even talent, are only useful tools if you have the work ethic to back them" -David Goggins
"Weeks earlier, we'd had our blood drawn during a med check, and the doctors discovered I carried the Sickle Cell Trait. I didn't have the disease, Sickle Cell Anemia, but I had the trait, which was believed at the time to increase the risk of sudden, exercise-related death due to cardiac arrest. The Air Force didn't want me dropping dead in the middle of an evolution and pulled me out of training on a medical." -David Goggins
"no matter how bad the pain gets, no matter how harrowing the torture, all bad things end." -David Goggins
"the Taoists say, those that know don't speak, and those who speak, well, they don't know jack shit." -David Goggins
"it's not the external voice that will break you down. It's what you tell yourself that matters. The most important conversations you'll ever have are the ones you'll have with yourself. You wake up with them, you walk around with them, you go to bed with them, and eventually you act on them. Whether they be good or bad." -David Goggins
"But you must remember that those images of home aren't actually rooted in love. They are a product of your fear, disguised as love." -David Goggins
"A true leader stays exhausted, abhors arrogance, and never looks down on the weakest link. He fights for his men and leads by example. That's what it meant to be uncommon among uncommon." -David Goggins
"Doing things—even small things—that make you uncomfortable will help make you strong. The more often you get uncomfortable the stronger you'll become," -David Goggins
"By the time I graduated, I knew that the confidence I'd managed to develop didn't come from a perfect family or God-given talent. It came from personal accountability which brought me self-respect, and self-respect will always light a way forward." -David Goggins
"All I knew was that we'd escaped from Hell, and for the first time in my life, we were free from the Devil himself." -David Goggins
"fatigue makes cowards of us all" -David Goggins
"Nothing in my life has ever happened for me on the first try. It took me three cracks to get through Navy SEAL training. I had to take the ASVAB five times and failed twice before breaking the Guinness World Record for most pull ups in twenty-four hours. But by then, failure had long since been neutralized. When I set an unreasonable goal and fall short, I don't even look at it as failure anymore. It is simply my first, second, third, or tenth attempt. That is what belief does for you. It takes failure out of the equation completely because you go in knowing the process will be long and arduous, and that is what the fuck we do." -David Goggins
"Why am I here?" -David Goggins
"All of us can be the person who flies all day and night only to arrive home to a filthy house, and instead of blaming family or roommates, cleans it up right then because they refuse to ignore duties undone." -David Goggins
"Looking at the long game, when kids like me grow up, they face an increased risk for clinical depression, heart disease, obesity, and cancer, not to mention smoking, alcoholism, and drug abuse. Those raised in abusive households have an increased probability of being arrested as a juvenile by 53 percent. Their odds of committing a violent crime as an adult are increased by 38 percent. I was the poster child of that generic term we've all heard before: “at-risk youth." -David Goggins
"when you have no confidence it becomes easy to value other people's opinions, and I was valuing everyone's opinion without considering the minds that generated them." -David Goggins
"If you look in the mirror and you see a fat person, don't tell yourself that you need to lose a couple of pounds. Tell the truth. You're fucking fat! It's okay." -David Goggins
"Esa mierda es simplemente la naturaleza humana, y si intentas romper esa percepción, recibirás algún consejo no solicitado que encontrará la forma de asfixiar tus aspiraciones si lo permites. A menudo, nuestra gente no tiene mala intención. Nadie que se preocupe por nosotros quiere que salgamos heridos. Quieren que estemos seguros, cómodos y felices, y que no tengamos que mirar al suelo en una mazmorra escudriñando los fragmentos de nuestros sueños rotos." -David Goggins
"See, I don't have any respect for people who live this luxe life 24/7. If I said no to Babbitt, I wouldn't be quitting on him, I would be quitting on myself. I would be making a fear-based choice to no longer be the very person who I became so proud of. It's all well and good to have success and reach a certain level, but I really don't give a fuck what you did yesterday. Maybe you finished an Ultraman or graduated from Harvard. I do not care. Respect is earned every day by waking up early, challenging yourself with new dreams or digging up old nightmares, and embracing the suck like you have nothing and have never done a damn thing in your life. p93" -David Goggins
"Again, know the terrain, know yourself, and you'd better know your adversary in detail." -David Goggins
"On the long drive, I didn't listen to music. All I heard were the competing voices in my head. The first voice accepted me as I was. It's not your fault, David. None of this is your fault. You're doing the best you can with what you've been given. That was the voice I'd been listening to my entire life. It's not my fault was my favorite refrain. It explained and justified my lot in life and the dead-end path in front of me, and it played 24/7. However, for the first time, another voice chimed in. Or maybe it was the first time I stopped listening only to what I wanted to hear. Roger that. It ain't your fucking fault that you were dealt a bad hand, but…it is your responsibility. How long will you allow your past to hold you back before you finally take control of your future?" -David Goggins
"What you said is true for most people, but not 100 percent. There will always be the 1 percent of us who are willing to put in the work to defy the odds." -David Goggins
"convalescing." -David Goggins
"It's on you," -David GogginsI said. “Yeah, I know things are messed up. I know what you've been through. I was there, remember! Merry Christmas. Nobody is coming to save you!" -David Goggins
"If you look in the mirror and you see a fat person, don't tell yourself that you need to lose a couple of pounds. Tell the truth. You're fucking fat! It's okay. Just say you're fat if you're fat. The dirty mirror that you see every day is going to tell you the truth every time, so why are you still lying to yourself? So you can feel better for a few minutes and stay the fucking same? If you're fat you need to change the fact that you're fat because it's very fucking unhealthy. I know because I've been there." -David Goggins
"I looked at that lack of lag time as an opportunity to be uncommon. Not that anybody else was watching, but when it comes to mindset, it doesn't matter where other people's attention lies. I had my own uncommon standards to live up to." -David Goggins
"The engine in a rocket ship does not fire without a small spark first. We all need small sparks, small accomplishments in our lives to fuel the big ones" -David Goggins
"Showing up is an important first step, but if you plan to show up, you may as well show the fuck out." -David Goggins
"On the other hand, people who are secure with themselves don't bully other people." -David Goggins
"We know life can be hard, and yet we feel sorry for ourselves when it isn't fair. From this point forward, accept the following as Goggins's laws of nature: You will be made fun of. You will feel insecure. You may not be the best all the time. You may be the only black, white, Asian, Latino, female, male, gay, lesbian or [fill in your identity here] in a given situation. There will be times when you feel alone. Get over it!" -David Goggins
"Everything in life is a mind game! Whenever we get swept under by life's dramas, large or small, we are forgetting that no matter how bad the pain gets, no matter how harrowing the torture, all bad things end. That forgetting happens the second we give control over our emotions and actions to other people, which can easily happen when the pain is peaking" -David Goggins
"Everything was going well in my life. My career was spit-shined and gleaming, I'd made a name for myself in the sports world, and I had plans to get back onto the battlefield like a Navy SEAL should. But sometimes, even when you are doing everything right in life, shit storms appear and multiply. Chaos can and will descend without warning, and when (not if) that happens, there won't be anything you can do to stop it. If you're fortunate, the issues or injuries are relatively minor, and when those incidents crop up it's on you to adjust and stay after it. If you get injured or other complications arise that prevent you from working on your primary passion, refocus your energy elsewhere. The activities we pursue tend to be our strengths because it's fun to do what we're great at. Very few people enjoy working on their weaknesses, so if you're a terrific runner with a knee injury that will prevent you from running for twelve weeks, that is a great time to get into yoga, increasing your flexibility and your overall strength, which will make you a better and less injury-prone athlete. If you're a guitar player with a broken hand, sit down at the keys" -David Goggins
"A 240-mile run will never be a joy ride. If you're feeling happy with yourself, odds are the tide is about to turn." -David Goggins
"I have cracked open anger several times. It has warmed me when I was freezing, it has turned my fear into bravery, and it has given me fight when I had none. And it can do the same for you. Anger will snap you out of the spell you're in until you are no longer willing to remain confined in your mental prison. You'll be scratching and clawing at the walls, looking for cracks where the light leaks in. Your fingernails will be broken, the tips of your fingers bloody and raw, and you will continue to fight to expand those cracks because your anger will be purifying and the human mind loves progress." -David Goggins
"In life, there is no gift as overlooked or inevitable as failure." -David Goggins
"The number one excuse I hear from people as to why they don't work out as much as they want to is that they don't have time. Look, we all have work obligations, none of us want to lose sleep, and you'll need time with the family or they'll trip the fuck out. I get it, and if that's your situation, you must win the morning." -David Goggins
"When you are always in the grind, you think there will come a time when the rough road, blitzed with potholes and littered with blown tires, will smooth out, but that is never the case. In fact, if you go through life expecting that smooth road, you won't be prepared when a pothole opens up on freshly laid blacktop and rocks you sideways one warm and pleasant evening." -David Goggins
"Pero de nuevo, como dicen los taoístas, aquellos que saben no hablan, y aquellos que hablan, bueno, ellos no saben ni mierda." -David Goggins
"If you aren't prepared in advance, if you allow your mind to remain undisciplined in an environment of intense suffering (it won't feel like it, but it is very much a choice you are making), the only answer you are likely to find is the one that will make it stop as fast as possible." -David Goggins
"their full potential? This is what I'd tell them: Our culture has become hooked on the quick-fix, the life hack, efficiency. Everyone is on the hunt for that simple action algorithm that nets maximum profit with the least amount of effort. There's no denying this attitude may get you some of the trappings of success, if you're lucky, but it will not lead to a calloused mind or self-mastery. If you want to master the mind and remove your governor, you'll have to become addicted to hard work. Because passion and obsession, even talent, are only useful tools if you have the work ethic to back them up." -David Goggins
"Anyone who is of sound mind and body can sit down and think of twenty things in their life that could have gone differently. Where maybe they didn't get a fair shake and where they took the path of least resistance." -David Goggins
"That's what getting up at the ass crack of dawn and putting out will do for you. It makes you better in all facets of your life." -David Goggins
"However, the world being what it is, not five miles later, on that same highway, a beat-to-shit pickup crept alongside me. I turned and glanced at the kid in the passenger seat just as he hollered, “Nigger!" -David GogginsI shook my head as they drove on, but his ignorance didn't fuck with me. That was his problem. In fact, the word he'd hoped would wound me bounced right off me. I was on the verge of running five hundred miles of ultra races in less than six weeks. That is a monumental output, and the reason I pulled it off is because I am focused on being my best at all times. When you live that way, there is no time to donate to small-town racists or anyone else whose perspective is defined by their narrow minds. At this point in my life, the supposedly offensive, unspeakable word with its dark, violent history has been reduced to a chain of harmless symbols: consonants and vowels that don't mean a damn thing." -David Goggins
"illuminate a proven path to self-mastery and empower you to face reality, hold yourself accountable, push past pain, learn to love what you fear, relish failure, live to your fullest potential, and find out who you really are." -David Goggins
"They say there's always light at the end of the tunnel, but not once your eyes adjust to the darkness, and that's what happened to me." -David Goggins
"To push through, you'll need to channel your darkness, feed off it, and lean on your calloused mind." -David Goggins
"Because it's the small sparks, which start small fires, that eventually build enough heat to burn the whole fucking forest down." -David Goggins
"I'd seen so much death by then—in my personal life and on the battlefield—that I knew tomorrow was not guaranteed. Before me was an opportunity, and if you give me an opportunity, I will break that motherfucker off!" -David Goggins
"What am I capable of?" -David Goggins
"Buda famosamente dijo que la vida es sufrimiento. No soy budista, pero conozco a qué se refería y también tú. Para existir en este mundo, debemos luchar contra la humillación, sueños rotos, tristeza y pérdidas. Simplemente así es la naturaleza. Cada vida específica viene con su propia y personalizada porción de dolor. Viene por ti. No puedes detenerlo. Y lo sabes." -David Goggins
"All the effort I'd put into conquering my negative mind had changed me. My demons and insecurities, which had been my primary energy sources for two decades, no longer owned the same real estate in my brain. I had managed to finally put each of them in their rightful place, and in that vacuum, a new sense of self emerged. To write my book, I'd developed the mindset of an artist, and the book's great success was the one minefield I hadn't anticipated. While money doesn't always make you happy, it dam sure can make you feel satisfied. And satisfaction is a hop-step from complacency. Oh, I looked the part. I was ripped, and if you tried to run with me, you'd come away thinking that I still had it. But even though I worked out twice a day, I was a part-time savage at best, a glorified Weekend Warrior. Weekend Warriors do hard things when they fit into their busy schedules. They do them to check a box and only when they want to. Then they dial it back after a couple of long, hard days. When you are a full-time savage, it's a lifestyle. There is no ""want to."" There is only ""must do.""p75" -David Goggins
"Porque la pasión y la obsesión, incluso el talento, sólo son herramientas útiles si tienes la ética del trabajo para respaldarlos." -David Goggins
"Anyone who is of sound mind and body can sit down and think of twenty things in their life that could have gone differently. Where maybe they didn't get a fair shake and where they took the path of least resistance. If you're one of the few who acknowledge that, want to callous those wounds, and strengthen your character, it's up to you to go back through your past and make peace with yourself by facing those incidents and all of your negative influences, and accepting them as weak spots in your own character. Only when you identify and accept your weaknesses will you finally stop running from your past. Then those incidents can be used more efficiently as fuel to become better and grow stronger." -David Goggins
"when shit gets real, we need to draw inspiration to push through our own exhaustion, depression, pain, and misery." -David Goggins
"Porque nuestras historias tristes nos permiten darnos el lujo de la indulgencia. Nos dan libertad y justificación para permanecer como cabrones perezosos y débiles mentalmente, y entre más nos toma procesar ese dolor, más difícil es recuperar nuestras vidas." -David Goggins
"Old friends are great and shared history is to be respected, but not every person who has been in your life a long time is looking out for your best interests. Some of them are threatened by your growth because of how it impacts them. Some are looking for a friend to keep them company in their half-ass lives." -David Goggins
"I saw an opportunity to be uncommon and seized it," -David Goggins
"I knew that the confidence I'd managed to develop didn't come from a perfect family or God-given talent. It came from personal accountability which brought me self-respect, and self-respect will always light a way forward." -David Goggins
"But it's not the external voice that will break you down. It's what you tell yourself that matters." -David Goggins
"Who hasn't dreamed up a possibility for themselves only to have friends, colleagues, or family shit all over it? Most of us are motivated as hell to do anything to pursue our dreams until those around us remind us of the danger, the downside, our own limitations, and all the people before us that didn't make it. Sometimes the advice comes from a well-intentioned place. They really believe they are doing it for our own good but if you let them, these same people will talk you out of your dreams, and your governor will help them do it." -David Goggins
"The Buddha famously said that life is suffering. I'm not a Buddhist, but I know what he meant and so do you. To exist in this world, we must contend with humiliation, broken dreams, sadness, and loss. That's just nature. Each specific life comes with its own personalized portion of pain. It's coming for you. You can't stop it. And you know it. In response, most of us are programmed to seek comfort as a way to numb it all out and cushion the blows. We carve out safe spaces. We consume media that confirms our beliefs, we take up hobbies aligned with our talents, we try to spend as little time as possible doing the tasks we fucking loathe, and that makes us soft. We live a life defined by the limits we imagine and desire for ourselves because it's comfortable as hell in that box. Not just for us, but for our closest family and friends. The limits we create and accept become the lens through which they see us. Through which they love and appreciate us. But for some, those limits start to feel like bondage, and when we least expect it, our imagination jumps those walls and hunts down dreams that in the immediate aftermath feel attainable. Because most dreams are. We are inspired to make changes little by little, and it hurts. Breaking the shackles and stretching beyond our own perceived limits takes hard fucking work—oftentimes physical work—and when you put yourself on the line, self doubt and pain will greet you with a stinging combination that will buckle your knees." -David Goggins
"The only thing more infectious than a good attitude is a bad one." -David Goggins
"The irony is you build those walls to protect yourself. You think they will make you hard and less vulnerable, but they isolate you in solitary confinement with your darkest thoughts and ugliest memories. You convince yourself that somehow you deserve to be there due to the bad life decisions you made. You believe that you are not worthy of more, or something better, and that the damage can't be undone. You are filled with endless shame. When you look in the mirror, you don't see yourself for who you are. And what keeps you locked up in your prison is that false narrative that you continually feed yourself and the false reflection you can't escape because it is part of you." -David Goggins
"Whenever you're engaged in an intense struggle, the result of which will have a major impact on your life going forward, you will be challenged to your utmost—and these moments of truth within a larger quest can demand so much from you that you are bound to feel overmatched at times. When that happens, many people panic because they come to believe that they are imposters and their dream was actually a fantasy. In a blink, they go from being driven and focused to becoming convinced that they had no business even trying. So they quit. Right then." -David Goggins
"Perjuangan terbesar bukanlah melawan orang lain, tetapi melawan keterbatasan diri kita sendiri." -David Goggins
"Everything must be utilized. Especially the energy in volatile, potentially damaging emotions like fear and hate. You have to learn how to handle them—how to mine them—and once you master that craft, any negative emotion or event that bubbles up in your brain or gets lobbed your way, like a grenade, can be used as fuel to make you better. But to get there, you must literally listen to yourself." -David Goggins
"While growth is important, you cannot lose the core of who you are. Your core is your stability. It's what dictates how you move through the world. Physically, when your core muscles are weak, you are literally a pushover. Psychologically, when your core values come into question, it's easy to lose yourself, and I could not afford to lose touch with the hard work it took to build this new life." -David Goggins
"The vast majority of parents don't know what greatness looks like, so they are ill-equipped and afraid to encourage big dreams. They want their children to have security and don't want them to experience failure. That's how limited horizons get passed down from generation to generation." -David Goggins
"not all physical and mental limitations are real," -David Goggins
"But the truth is we all make habitual, self-limiting choices. It's as natural as a sunset and as fundamental as gravity." -David Goggins
"Accepting your full truth, including all your faults, imperfections, and missteps, allows you to evolve, expand your possibilities, seek redemption, and explore your true potential." -David Goggins
"will illuminate a proven path to self-mastery and empower you to face reality, hold yourself accountable, push past pain, learn to love what you fear, relish failure, live to your fullest potential, and find out who you really are." -David Goggins
"It's about what we do with opportunities revoked or presented to us that determines how a story ends." -David Goggins
"Often it isn't Father Time that is fucking you up but his brother, Father Fatigue." -David Goggins
"never forget that all emotional and physical anguish is finite! It all ends eventually. Smile at pain and watch it fade for at least a second or two." -David Goggins
"Most of us sweep our failures and evil secrets under the rug, but when we run into problems, that rug gets lifted up, and our darkness re-emerges, floods our soul, and influences the decisions which determine our character." -David Goggins
"We are all guilty of allowing so-called experts, or just people who have more experience in a given field than we do, to cap our potential." -David Goggins
"My only other choice was to try to find the power in the emotions that had laid me low, harness and use them to empower me to rise up, which is exactly what I did." -David Goggins
"I'd spent my entire life in surface waters hoping that my luck would change and everything I'd dreamed of would fall into place for me. That night, on my drive home to Indiana, I accepted the hard truth that hoping and wishing are like gambling on long shots, and if I wanted to be better, I had to start living every day with a sense of urgency. Because that is the only way to turn the odds in your favor." -David Goggins
"Know the terrain you're operating in, when and where you can push boundaries, and when you should fall in line. Next, take inventory of your mind and body on the eve of battle. List out your insecurities and weakness, as well as your opponent's. For instance, if you're getting bullied, and you know where you fall short or feel insecure, you can stay ahead of any insults or barbs a bully may throw your way." -David Goggins
"find time for more work and less bullshit." -David Goggins
"Which is a long way of saying that it didn't matter if my body couldn't bounce back like theirs. Or that I had to eat cleaner food, stretch in the morning and at night, and prioritize recovery. It didn't matter if I had to sleep less because there are only so many hours in any fucked-up day. If that's what it took, I was a willing warrior. Willing warriors don't reach for excuses. While it's human nature to try and talk yourself out of doing the hard or inconvenient thing, we know that it's non-negotiable. There are a lot of people out there who are willing to sign up for the military or police force, apply for a job, or enroll in college or graduate school because they expect some tangible and timely return on their investment. Warriors aren't in it for cash or benefits. That's all gravy. Even though I was broke, I would have found a way to pay the U.S. Navy to be a SEAL. Nobody recruited me to Fort St. John, and I lost money by taking the job. But willing warriors seek out our own missions and pay any and all tolls required. I wanted to do this fucking job, period. p283" -David Goggins
"No matter what comes down on your head, you must find a glimmer of light, remain positive, and never treat yourself as a victim. Especially if you intend to thrive in a harsh world where you have to work for everything. I'm not talking about material things. I'm talking about self-respect, self-love and self-mastery." -David Goggins
"...it's possible to transcend anything that doesn't kill you..." -David Goggins
"I'm my own hero." -David Goggins
"Sadly, most of us give up when we've only given around 40 percent of our maximum effort. Even when we feel like we've reached our absolute limit, we still have 60 percent more to give!" -David Goggins
"You'll need to funnel every minute of every single day into the pursuit of that degree, that starting spot, that job, that edge. Your mind must never leave the cockpit. Sleep at the library or the office. Hoop long past sundown and fall asleep watching film of your next opponent. There are no days off, and there is no downtime when you are obsessed with being great. That is what it takes to be the baddest motherfucker ever at what you do." -David Goggins
"From then on, I brainwashed myself into craving discomfort. If it was raining, I would go run. Whenever it started snowing, my mind would say, Get your fucking running shoes on." -David Goggins
"There's something to be said for living it instead of studying it," -David GogginsI said, then turned toward the professor. “What you said is true for most people, but not 100 percent. There will always be the 1 percent of us who are willing to put in the work to defy the odds." -David Goggins
"The excuses we make are because we feel we are not good at it" -David Goggins
"The engine in a rocket ship does not fire without a small spark first. We all need small sparks, small accomplishments in our lives to fuel the big ones." -David Goggins
"Every BUD/S class has their share of hard-ass backcountry Texans. No state puts more SEALs in the pipeline. Must be something in the barbecue," -David Goggins
"and I was valuing everyone's opinion without considering the minds that generated them. That sounds silly, but it's an easy trap to fall into, especially when you are insecure" -David Goggins
"destruction always breeds creation." -David Goggins
"Nobody likes to hear the hard truth. Individually and as a culture, we avoid what we need to hear most. This world is fucked up, there are major problems in our society. We are still dividing ourselves up along racial and cultural lines, and people don't have the balls to hear it! The truth is racism and bigotry still fucking exist and some people are so thin-skinned they refuse to admit that." -David Goggins
"We all have areas in our lives we either ignore or can improve upon. Find yours. We often choose to focus on our strengths rather than our weaknesses. Use this time to make your weaknesses your strengths." -David Goggins
"When I finished at 2 a.m. on Sunday, a teenager from Denver who attended a school I'd visited a few days earlier was waiting for me at the finish line. I didn't have a great race (I came in 14th place, rather than my typical top five), but I always made sure to finish strong, and when I sprinted home he approached me with a wide smile and said, “I drove two hours just to see you finish!" -David GogginsThe lesson: you never know who you're affecting. My poor race results meant less than nothing to that young man because I'd helped open his eyes to a new world of possibility and capability that he sensed within himself." -David Goggins
"La vida es una montaña y todos estamos escalándola, pero la esperanza no es un punto de anclaje. Es demasiado suave, esponjosa y temporal. No hay substancia detrás de la esperanza. No es un músculo que puedas desarrollar, y no está profundamente arraigada. Es una emoción que va y viene." -David Goggins
"Whatever it takes for you to believe that you're better than good enough to achieve your dreams is what you must do." -David Goggins
"the Sierras" -David Goggins
"Human beings change through study, habit, and stories." -David Goggins
"Because destruction always breeds creation." -David Goggins
"MISSION: To unshackle your mind. Ditch the victim's mentality forever. Own all aspects of your life completely. Build an unbreakable foundation." -David Goggins
"The show followed Basic Underwater Demolition SEAL (BUD/S) Training Class 224 through Hell Week: the most arduous series of tasks in the most physically demanding training in the military." -David Goggins
"But the truth is we all make habitual, self-limiting choices. It's as natural as a sunset and as fundamental as gravity. It's how our brains are wired, which is why motivation is crap." -David Goggins
"Some criticize my level of passion, but I'm not down with the prevailing mentalities that tend to dominate American society these days; the ones that tell us to go with the flow or invite us to learn how to get more with less effort. Fuck that shortcut bullshit. The reason I embrace my own obsessions and demand and desire more of myself is because I've learned that it's only when I push beyond pain and suffering, past my perceived limitations, that I'm capable of accomplishing more, physically and mentally—in endurance races but also in life as a whole." -David Goggins
"Most wars are won or lost in our own heads, and when we're in a foxhole we usually aren't alone, and we need to be confident in the quality of the heart, mind, and dialogue of the person hunkered down with us." -David Goggins
"I was a prisoner in my own mind and this opportunity was my only chance to break free." -David Goggins
"I looked at the people who were making me feel uncomfortable and realized how uncomfortable they were in their own skin. To make fun of or try to intimidate someone they didn't even know based on race alone was a clear indication that something was very wrong with them, not me. But when you have no confidence it becomes easy to value other people's opinions, and I was valuing everyone's opinion without considering the minds that generated them. That sounds silly, but it's an easy trap to fall into, especially when you are insecure on top of being the only. As soon as I made that connection, being upset with them was not worth my time. Because if I was gonna kick their ass in life, and I was, I had way too much shit to do. Each insult or dismissive gesture became more fuel for the engine revving inside me." -David Goggins
"my fragile, wounded state of mind. There's an old saying in the military, that “if you are stupid, you better be hard." -David Goggins
"This is about abolishing the ego and taking the first step toward becoming the real you!" -David Goggins
"Remember, the goal is always to complete the mission—whatever it may be—with no regrets and a clear head, so you can use it to progress in life." -David Goggins
"Blame it on the fucked-up evolutionary wiring of the human mind. But you don't have to let your doubt into the cockpit! You can tolerate doubt as a backseat driver, but if you put doubt in the pilot's seat, defeat is guaranteed. Remembering that you've been through difficulties before and have always survived to fight again shifts the conversation in your head." -David Goggins
"They sought out the flame, took the pounding for as long as necessary, longer even, until they were fearless and deadly. They weren't motivated. They were driven." -David Goggins
"Lately, I've used this technique with the hate that comes at me online. Most people in my position don't read negative comments or emails. The have someone else screen and then erase them. I see hate as just another fuel source. I see the beauty and power in it, and I never let it go to waste. When the negative comments come in, and they always do, I capture them in a screenshot and speak them into my microphone. In 2021, I posted an image of my swollen left knee, which inspired a flood of negative comments...They were trying to salt my wounds. They wanted me to feel the sting, which I did, and hoped it would bring me down even further. It didn't. I loved those comments. I loved them so much I made a mixtape. I printed them all out, recorded myself saying each one, and then I looped that bitch. Whenever I have a bad day, I listen to it. Sometimes I walk around the house savoring it in full stereo. p63" -David Goggins
"Does that shock you too? You know that my refrigerator is never full, and it never will be because I live a mission-driven life, always on the hunt for the next challenge. That mindset is the reason I broke that record, finished Badwater, became a SEAL, rocked Ranger School, and on down the list. In my mind I'm that racehorse always chasing a carrot I'll never catch, forever trying to prove myself to myself. And when you live that way and attain a goal, success feels anti-climactic." -David Goggins
"Maybe you are tackling a hundred-question test and know that you've bricked the first fifty. At that point, it's extremely difficult to maintain the necessary discipline to force yourself to keep taking the test seriously. It's also imperative that you find it because in every failure there is something to be gained, even if it's only practice for the next test you'll have to take. Because that next test is coming. That's a guarantee." -David Goggins
"Their odds of committing a violent crime as an adult are increased by 38 percent." -David Goggins
"Los seres humanos nos transformamos a través del estudio, el hábito y las historias." -David Goggins
"I'm still haunted, but I've traded in my demons for evil-ass angels, and now, it's a good haunting. I'm haunted by my future goals, not my past failures. I'm haunted by what I may still become. I'm haunted by my own continued thirst for evolution." -David Goggins
"Most of us sweep our failures and evil secrets under the rug, but when we run into problems, that rug gets lifted up, and our darkness re-emerges, floods our soul, and influences the decisions that determine our character." -David Goggins
"Don't focus on what you think you deserve, take aim at what you are willing to earn" -David Goggins
"A lot of folks feel like they are missing something in their lives- something money can't buy- and that makes them miserable. They attempt to fill the void with material things they can see, feel, and touch. But that empty feeling won't go away. It fades until all gets quiet again. Then that familiar gnawing in their gut returns, reminding them that the life they are living is not the fullest expression of who they are or might become. Unfortunately, most people are not desperate enough to do anything about it. When you're hogtied in conflicting emotions and other people's opinions, it's impossible to tap into belief and easy to drift away from that urge to evolve. You could be itchy as fuck to experience something different, to be somewhere different, or to become someone different, but when the slightest resistance arises to challenge your resolve, you moonwalk right back into the unsatisfied person you were before. Still itchy, still jonesing to be someone new, yet still trapped in your unfulfilling status quo. And you are nowhere near alone. p15" -David Goggins
"It does something to you when you are running close to what you perceive as our limit (back then, I still topped at 40 percent) and there is someone else out there who makes the difficult look effortless. It was obvious that his preparedness was several levels above our own. Captain Connolly did not show up to simply get through the program and graduate so he could collect some wings for his uniform and belong to the unspoken fraternity of supposed badasses at Fort Campbell. He came to explore what he was made of and grow. That required a willingness to set a new standard wherever possible and make a statement, not necessarily to our dumb asses, but to himself. He was respectful to all the instructors and the school, but he was not there to be led... Most people love standards. It gives the brain something to focus on, which helps us reach a place of achievement. Organizational structure and atta' boys from our instructors or bosses keep us motivated to perform and to move up on that bell curve. Captain Connolly did not require external motivation. He trained to his own standard and used the existing structure for his own purposes. Air Assault School became his own personal octagon, where he could test himself on a level even the instructors hadn't imagined. For the next nine days, he put his head down and quietly went about the business of smashing every single standard at Air Assault School. He saw the bar that the instructors pointed to and the rest of us were trying to tap as a hurdle to leap over, and he did it time and again. He understood that his rank only meant something if he sought out a different certification: an invisible badge that says, ""I am the example. Follow me, motherfuckers, and I will show you that there is more to this life than so-called authority and stripes or candy on a uniform. I'll show you what true ambition looks like beyond all the external structure in a place of limitless mental growth."" He didn't say any of that. He didn't run his mouth at all. I can't recall him uttering word one in ten fucking days, but through his performance and extreme dedication, he dropped breadcrumbs for anybody who was awake and aware enough to follow him. He flashed his tool kit. He showed us what potent, silent, exemplary leadership looked like. He checked into every Gold Group run, which was led by the fastest instructor in that school, and volunteered to be the first to carry the flag...His conditioning was clearly off the charts, and I'm not talking about the physical aspect alone. Being a physical specimen is one thing, but it takes so much more energy to stay mentally prepared enough to arrive every day at a place like Air Assault School on a mission to dominate. The fact that he was able to do that told me it couldn't possibly have been a one-time thing. It had to be the result of countless lonely hours in the gym, on the trails, and in the books. Most of his work was hidden, but it is within that unseen work that self-leaders are made. I suspect the reason he was capable of exceeding any and all standards consistently was because he was dedicated at a level most people cannot fathom in order to stay ready for any and all opportunities. p237" -David Goggins
"Remember, visualization will never compensate for work undone. You cannot visualize lies. All the strategies I employ to answer the simple questions and win the mind game are only effective because I put in work. It's a lot more than mind over matter. It takes relentless self-discipline to schedule suffering into your day, every day, but if you do, you'll find that at the other end of that suffering is a whole other life just waiting for you." -David Goggins
"Like medics on the scene of a car accident, we all must act with a sense of urgency and tune into that ticking clock in the back of our minds. Because there is a drop-dead time on everything we do in life. All our dreams and visions come with expiration dates etched in invisible ink. Windows of opportunity can and do close, so it is imperative that we do not waste time on bullshit. None of us have any clue what's coming for us or when our time might run out, which is why I do my best to ignore anything that is counterproductive." -David Goggins
"It will always be up to you to find the lesson in every challenging situation and use it to become stronger, wiser, and better. No matter what comes down on your head, you must find a glimmer of light, remain positive, and never treat yourself as a victim." -David Goggins
"I'm afraid a lot, but I've learned to flip fear by facing whatever it is I'm scared of head-on. When I first started to face my fears, I was tentative as fuck. That's normal, and the emotions and discomfort I felt were proof of how potent this process can be. My anxiety stirred and my adrenaline pumped as my mind edged closer to what I was so desperate to avoid. But within all that energy is a mental and emotional growth factor that can lead to self-empowerment." -David Goggins
"Those raised in abusive households have an increased probability of being arrested as a juvenile by 53 percent." -David Goggins
"accept the following as Goggins' laws of nature: You will be made fun of. You will feel insecure. You may not be the best all the time. You may be the only black, white, Asian, Latino, female, male, gay, lesbian or [fill in your identity here] in a given situation. There will be times when you feel alone. Get over it!" -David Goggins
"We habitually settle for less than our best; at work, in school, in our relationships, and on the playing field or race course. We settle as individuals, and we teach our children to settle for less than their best, and all of that ripples out, merges, and multiplies within our communities and society as a whole." -David Goggins
"It's funny, we question so many things about the way our lives are going. We wonder what it would be like if we looked different, had more of a head start, or were given a boost at one time or another. Very few people question their own warped minds. Instead, they collect slights, dramas, and problems, hoarding them until they are bloated with stale regret and envy, which form the roadblocks stopping them from becoming their truest, most capable selves. All over the world, hundreds of millions of people choose to live that way. But there is another way of thinking and another way of being. It helped me regain control of my life. It allowed me to eviscerate all obstacles in my path until my growth factor became damn near limitless. I'm still haunted, but I've traded in my demons for evil-ass angels, and now, it's a good haunting. I'm haunted by my future goals, not my past failures. I'm haunted by what I may still become. I'm haunted by my own continued thirst for evolution." -David Goggins
"I was everything all the haters back home said I would be: uneducated, with no real world skills, zero discipline, and a dead-end future. Mediocrity would have been a major promotion. I was at the bottom of the barrel of life, pooling in the dregs, but, for the first time in way too long, I was awake." -David Goggins
"Whatever happens to us in life, we must aim to keep things net positive. When you have a shitty day, it's tempting to call it an early night and try to forget about it, but if you go to bed in the red, chances are you'll wake up that way, and all too often, that type of negativity snowballs. When your entire day is fucked up, make sure that you achieve something positive before lights out. You'll probably have to stay up a bit later to read, study, get a workout in, or clean the house. Whatever it takes to go to bed in the black, get it done. That's how you stay net positive on the day to day, and when that becomes automatic, it will be so much easier to see any emotional tripwires coming, which will help you strategize around them." -David Goggins
"life is one big mind game." -David Goggins
"very few of us take the time to celebrate our successes." -David Goggins
"Own it! It's okay to be unkind with yourself in these moments because we need thicker skin to improve in life." -David Goggins
"I was on that spoon-fed path of least resistance, letting dominoes fall on my head, and it was killing me slowly. But there's a difference between being numb and clueless." -David Goggins
"Most people in the world, if they ever push themselves at all, are willing to push themselves only so far." -David Goggins
"Even if you're struggling financially, emotionally, spiritually, or physically, your grand plan to defy the odds probably came to you in a moment of comfort, when you had time to evaluate where you are and how you got there. There is no space for big-picture thinking when you're in the heat of battle. When all is calm, even temporarily, damn near anything can feel possible. So that's when you dream it up and map it all out." -David Goggins
"What if is an exquisite fuck-you to anyone who has ever doubted your greatness or stood in your way. It silences negativity. It's a reminder that you don't really know what you're capable of until you put everything you've got on the line. It makes the impossible feel at least a little more possible." -David Goggins
"No matter the task at hand, there is always opportunity for self-doubt." -David Goggins
"This one, like most battles we fight in life, would be won or lost in our own minds." -David Goggins
"Pretend it never happened." -David Goggins
"For many people, the haunting begins the minute they wake up. Maybe they are fat or disabled, feel ugly, or are failing and overwhelmed at school or work, and it consumes them. Their obsession with their own imperfections and faults suffocates self-respect and submarines progress, and from the time they get out of bed until they are able to crawl back in that night, the only thing on their agenda is avoiding exposure and surviving another day in hell. When that's how you feel about yourself, it's impossible to see possibilities or seize opportunities. We all have the ability to be extraordinary, but most of us—and especially the haunted ones—tap out of the crucible and never experience what it's like to get to the other side of hell. My metamorphosis was a brutal process that unfolded over decades, but eventually, I became the polar opposite of the kid frozen in the hot stage lights and the gaze of his teacher who only wanted to teach him to read. I became a full-time savage who walked the distant, narrow path with cliffs rising on both sides, no aid stations or rest areas, and no turnouts or exits of any kind. Whatever popped up in front of me had to be dealt with head-on because the full-time savage sees everything in life as an opportunity to learn, adapt, and evolve. However, when Babbitt's message found me, at first, I looked for an exit. Then, I pulled my head out of my ass and found a way." -David Goggins
"oblivion." -David Goggins
"Es curioso, los seres humanos tendemos a tramar nuestros objetivos y sueños más desafiantes, los que exigen nuestro mayor esfuerzo pero no prometen absolutamente nada, cuando estamos metidos en nuestras zonas de confort." -David Goggins
"Just another zombie selling his time on earth, going through the motions." -David Goggins
"If you were bullied, abused, or sexually assaulted and are willing to speak the unfiltered truth into the microphone and listen to it over and over, after a period of time, it will become just another story. A powerful story, for sure, but the poison will be neutralized, and the power will be yours." -David Goggins
"When you're young, you can only know what you see, and if all you are ever exposed to are lazy people, content with mediocrity or who convince you of your own worthlessness, greatness will remain a fantasy." -David Goggins
"But if you are the only, and you aren't stuck in some real-world genocidal twilight zone, you'd better get real too. Your life is not fucked up because of overt racists or hidden systemic racism. You aren't missing out on opportunities, making shit money, and getting evicted because of America or Donald fucking Trump or because your ancestors were slaves or because some people hate immigrants or Jews or harass women or believe gay people are going to hell. If any of that shit is stopping you from excelling in life, I've got some news. You are stopping" -David Goggins
"We all over it ourselves to stand for something. Principles give us a foundation — solid ground we can trust and build on as we continue to redefine what's possible in our own lives. Sure, some will be put off by your dedication and level of effort. Others will call you obsessed or think that you've gone crazy. When they do, smile and say, ""I'm not crazy. I'm just not you." -David Goggins
"I went back to carrying just the one bottle. After I drained it, my hydration plan was the same one I used on long runs in the tropics back in my military days. Whenever I got thirsty, I licked my motherfucking lips. p80" -David Goggins
"Take aim on what you are willing to earn!" -David Goggins
"Show no weakness remained my motto, but that didn't mean I felt strong." -David Goggins
"ticket to victory often comes down to bringing your very best when you feel your worst." -David Goggins
"plenty from the Texas rangeland. Every BUD/S class has their share of hard-ass backcountry Texans. No state puts more SEALs in the pipeline." -David Goggins
"The point is not to allow a setback to shatter our focus, or our detours to dictate our mindset. Always be ready to adjust, recalibrate, and stay after it to become better, somehow." -David Goggins
"It takes relentless self-discipline to schedule suffering into your day, every day, but if you do, you'll find that at the other end of that suffering is a whole other life just waiting for you." -David Goggins
"If you want to master the mind and remove your governor, you'll have to become addicted to hard work. Because passion and obsession, even talent, are only useful tools if you have the work ethic to back them up. My work ethic is the single most important factor in all of my accomplishments." -David Goggins
"Continued growth only comes when you are willing to be humble." -David Goggins
"There is no shame in getting knocked out. The shame comes when you throw in the motherfucking towel." -David Goggins
"Before me was an opportunity, and if you give me an opportunity, I will break that motherfucker off!" -David Goggins
"There is no shame in getting knocked out." -David Goggins
"It's important to be part of the group." -David Goggins
"You will realize that if you were underperforming in your physical challenges, there is a good chance you are underperforming at school and work too. The bottom line is that life is one big mind game. The only person you are playing against is yourself. Stick with this process and soon what you thought was impossible will be something you do every fucking day of your life." -David Goggins
"Very few people know how the bottom feels, but I do. It's like quicksand. It grabs you, sucks you under, and won't let go." -David Goggins
"In a society where mediocrity is too often the standard and too often rewarded," -David Gogginshe said, “there is intense fascination with men who detest mediocrity, who refuse to define themselves in conventional terms, and who seek to transcend traditionally recognized human capabilities. This is exactly the type of person BUD/S is meant to find. The man who finds a way to complete each and every task to the best of his ability. The man who will adapt and overcome any and all obstacles." -David GogginsIn" -David Goggins
"Lately, I've used this technique with the hate that comes at me online. Most people in my position don't read negative comments or emails. The have someone else screen and then erase them. I see hate as just another fuel source. I see the beauty and power in it, and I never let it go to waste. When the negative comments come it, and they always do, I capture them in a screenshot and speak them into my microphone. In 2021, I posted an image of my swollen left knee, which inspired a flood of negative comments... They were trying to salt my wounds. They wanted me to feel the sting, which I did, and hoped it would bring me down even further. It didn't. I loved those comments. I loved them so much I made a mixtape. I printed them all out, recorded myself saying each one, and then I looped that bitch. Whenever I have a bad day, I listen to it. Sometimes I walk around the house savoring it in full stereo. p63" -David Goggins
"Para existir en este mundo, debemos luchar contra la humillación, sueños rotos, tristeza y pérdidas." -David Goggins
"These are the facts, and they are undisputed. Your problems and your past aren't on anybody else's agenda. Not really. You may have a few people in your inner circle who care about what you're going through, but for the most part, on one gives a shit because they're dealing with their own issues and focused on their own lives. p147" -David Goggins
"Life will always be the most grueling endurance sport, and when you train hard, get uncomfortable, and callous your mind, you will become a more versatile competitor, trained to find a way forward no matter what. Because there will be times when life comes at you like a sledgehammer. Sometimes life hits you dead in the fucking heart." -David Goggins
"It will always be up to you to find the lesson in every shitty situation and use it to become stronger, wiser, and better. No matter what comes down on your head, you must find a glimmer of light, remain positive, and never treat yourself as a victim. Especially if you intend to thrive in a harsh world where you have to work for everything that matters. I'm not talking about material things. I'm talking about self-respect, self-love, and self-mastery." -David Goggins
"The Buddha famously said that life is suffering. I'm not a Buddhist, but I know what he meant and so do you. To exist in this world, we must contend with humiliation, broken dreams, sadness, and loss. That's just nature. Each specific life comes with its own personalized portion of pain. It's coming for you. You can't stop it. And you know it. In" -David Goggins
"The road to success is rarely a straight line. For me, it's always been more like a maze. Many times, when I thought I'd finally cracked the code, had it all figured out, and found the straight path to certain victory, I hit a wall or got spun into a turnaround. When that happens, we have two choices. We can stay stuck or regroup, back up, and try again. That's where evolution begins. Hitting those walls time and again will harden and streamline you. Having to back up and formulate a new plan without any assurances it will ever pan out will tune your SA up and develop your problem-solving skills and your endurance. It will force you to adapt. When that happens hundreds of times over the course of many years, it is physically exhausting and mentally draining, and it becomes damn near impossible to believe in yourself or your future. A lot of people abandon belief at that point. They swirl in the eddies of comfort or regret, perhaps claim their victimhood, and stop looking for their way out of the maze. Others keep believing and find a way out but hope to never slip into a trap like that ever again, and those skills they'd honed and developed whither. They lose their edge." -David Goggins
"When you're mind knows it's not gonna quit your body will adapt to whatever is in front of it. We as human beings are capable of anything" -David Goggins
"Whatever it takes for you to believe that you're better than good enough to achieve your dreams is what you must do. And remember, your greatness is not tied to any outcome. It is found in the valiance of the attempt." -David Goggins
"I needed to ease some of the pressure I'd placed on myself. Pressure comes with high expectations, which is great because it can bring out your best, but there are times when it can be more helpful to offload pressure. When you are exhausted, it is vital to remain in control of your thoughts and emotions so you can make decisions with your right mind. Choosing to relieve pressure allows you to do that. When the pressure is high, you develop blinders that limit perspective. That's great for certain situations that demand a hyper focus, but when you're engaged in something that demands your maximum endurance, it's better to broaden your perspective and your awareness to absorb more of the experience, which enables maximum growth both during the event and in the days and weeks to follow. Besides, if you allow that unrelenting pressure to build, you're liable to snap and make a bad situation a whole lot worse. Remember, the goal is always to complete the mission—whatever it may be—with no regrets and a clear head, so you can use it to progress in life." -David Goggins
"No puedes dejar que un simple fracaso te desvíe de tu misión," -David Goggins
"And never forget that all emotional and physical anguish is finite! It all ends eventually. Smile at pain and watch it fade for at least a second or two. If" -David Goggins
"dank" -David Goggins
"Cultivating a willingness to succeed despite any and all circumstances is the most important variable of the reengagement equation. Your willingness to succeed builds self-esteem. It broadens your concept of your own capability, yet it is the first thing we lose touch with when things go bad. After that, giving up often feels like the sanest option, and maybe it is, but know that quitting chips away at your self-worth and always requires some level of mental rehab." -David Goggins
"No matter who you are, life will present you similar opportunities where you can prove to be uncommon." -David Goggins
"pain Is just a feeling" -David Goggins
"It was about who I was and who I wanted to be." -David Goggins
"My mother was my biggest fan. Whenever I failed in life she was always asking me when and where I would go after it again. She never said, Well, maybe it isn't meant to be." -David Goggins
"Even the best pep talk or self-help hack is nothing but a temporary fix. It won't rewire your brain. It won't amplify your voice or uplift your life. Motivation changes exactly nobody. The bad hand that was my life was mine, and mine alone to fix." -David Goggins
"there was no one pushing me on a day-to-day basis any longer. The hell with it. I was always destined to be that one warrior. Content to be the one who sharpens his sword alone." -David Goggins
"The limits we create and accept become the lens through which they see us. Through which they love and appreciate us." -David Goggins
"Stick with this process and soon what you thought was impossible will be something you do every fucking day of your life." -David Goggins
"If you were hurt or are still in harm's way, tell the story in full. Give your pain shape. Absorb its power, because you are about to flip that shit." -David Goggins
"No, this run, Badwater, my entire desire to push myself to the brink of destruction, was about me. It was about how much I was willing to suffer, how much more I could take, and how much I had to give. If I was gonna make it, this shit would have to get personal." -David Goggins
"Social media has compounded and spread this virus of dissatisfaction, which is why the world is now populated by damaged people consuming airy gratification, hunting an immediate dopamine fix with no substance at all behind it." -David Goggins
"find a way to get through this." -David Goggins
"You know, Goggins," -David Gogginshe said, stepping closer, “when the Vikings were getting ready to raid a fucking village, and they were camped out in the fucking woods in their goddam tents made out of fucking deer hides and shit, sitting around a campfire, do you think they said, Hey, let's have some herbal fucking tea and call it an early night? Or were they more like, Fuck that, we are going to drink some vodka made out of some mushrooms and get all drunked up, so the next morning when they were all hung-over and pissed off they would be in the ideal mood to slaughter the shit out of some people?" -David Goggins
"You are stopping you!" -David Goggins
"It's also imperative that you find it because in every failure there is something to be gained, even if it's only practice for the next test you'll have to take. Because that next test is coming. That's a guarantee." -David Goggins
"The cost of quitting would be lifelong purgatory. I'd be trapped in the knowing that I didn't stay in the fight to the bitter end." -David Goggins
"I was an insecure person with low self esteem trying to grind an axe," -David Gogginshe said, “and my own ego, arrogance, and insecurity made my own life more difficult." -David Goggins
"Continue to put obstacles in front of yourself, because that's where you'll find the friction that will help you grow even stronger. Before you know it, you will stand alone." -David Goggins
"ROGER with a bit more intention and define it as, “Received, order given, expect results." -David Goggins
"When depression smothers you, it blots out all light and leaves you with nothing to cling onto for hope. All you see is negativity." -David Goggins
"The most important conversations you'll ever have are the ones you'll have with yourself. You wake up with them, you walk around with them, you go to bed with them, and eventually you act on them. Whether they be good or bad." -David Goggins
"puedo decirte es que el hierro con el hierro se afila! Gracias por ser uno de los pocos que salía a dar lo máximo conmigo cada maldito día y estaba dispuesto a ir contracorriente y ser incomprendido con tal" -David Goggins
"Tell the truth about the real reasons for your limitations and you will turn that negativity, which is real, into jet fuel. Those odds stacked against you will become a damn runway!" -David Goggins
"Be prepared for them, because in any endurance event, in any high-stress environment, your weaknesses will surface like bad karma, build in volume, and overwhelm you. Unless you get ahead of them first." -David Goggins
"We can't control all the variables in our lives. It's about what we do with opportunities revoked or presented to us that determine how a story ends." -David Goggins
"Learn to help yourself" -David Goggins
"If you have worked for thirty years doing the same stupid job you've hated day in and day out because you were afraid to quit and take a risk, you've been living like a coward. Period, point blank. Tell yourself the truth! That you've wasted enough time, and that you have other dreams that will take courage to realize, so you don't die a coward." -David Goggins
"It takes a lot of will to push yourself when you are all alone." -David Goggins
"Yeah, we were all uncommon, hard motherfuckers compared to civilians, but now I saw I was uncommon even among the uncommon, and if that's who I was, then so the fuck be it." -David Goggins
"Mediocrity would have been a major promotion. I was at the bottom of the barrel of life, pooling in the dregs, but, for the first time in way too long, I was awake." -David Goggins
"We found hell in a beautiful neighborhood." -David Goggins
"Maybe your limiting factor is that you grew up so supported and comfortable, you never pushed yourself?" -David Goggins
"Sometimes the best way to defeat a bully is to actually help them. If you can think two or three moves ahead, you will commandeer their thought process, and if you do that, you've taken their damn soul without them even realizing it." -David Goggins
"Whenever I got thirsty, I licked my motherfucking lips." -David Goggins
"Sounding off in military cadences serves a few purposes. It helps you breathe, releases a shot of adrenaline, and builds up morale. To the uninformed, it may look and sound like unnecessary ra-ra-ra, but if you're part of an exhausted, physically and mentally taxed team, that kind of camaraderie turns something monotonous and brutal into an empowering rite of passage. You aren't even doing push-ups anymore. You are becoming one with the team, merging with a common energy force, and that helps everyone stay on course to get through each day, each module of training. We all grew to love those push-ups!" -David Goggins
"The cost of quitting would be lifelong purgatory." -David Goggins
"We didn't live in that $7 a month place in Brazil anymore, but I was still paying rent on that motherfucker, and will be for the rest of my life." -David Goggins
"sunset" -David Goggins
"Part of the problem is that they have become terrified of pulling that second cord because if it's also fucked up, then they truly will be helpless. That is a mental trap set by fear. We cannot afford to remain afraid of cutting away dead weight to save ourselves." -David Goggins
"What the fuck? I mean, seriously, what the fucking fuck? When was enough truly going to be enough? Was I willing to let my sorry present become a fucked-up future? How much longer would I wait, how many more years would I burn, wondering if there was some greater purpose out there waiting for me? I knew right then that if I didn't make a stand and start walking the path of most resistance, I would end up in this mental hell forever." -David Goggins
"Mine your core principles, and come up with your own oath to self. Make sure it is aspirational and that it challenges you to strive and achieve, and live by it every day." -David Goggins
"We have to learn to stop looking for a sign that the hard time will end. When the distance is unknown, it is even more critical that you stay locked in so the unknown factor doesn't steal your focus. The end will come when it comes, and anticipation will only distract you from completing the task in front of you to the best of your ability." -David Goggins
"What separates a true savage from everybody else is the ability to regain control of their mind in that split second, despite the fact that all looks lost!" -David Goggins
"If you take what they do or say less personally, they no longer hold any cards. Feelings are just feelings. On the other hand, people who are secure with themselves don't bully other people." -David Goggins
"My mindset was controlling my destiny." -David Goggins
"Buscaban la flama, tomaban los embates por el tiempo que fuera necesario, más tiempo aún, hasta volverse temerarios y letales. No estaban motivados. Estaban determinados" -David Goggins
"For instance, if you're getting bullied, and you know where you fall short or feel insecure, you can stay ahead of any insults or barbs a bully may throw your way. You can laugh at yourself along with them, which disempowers them. If you take what they do or say less personally, they no longer hold any cards. Feelings are just feelings. On the other hand, people who are secure with themselves don't bully other people. They look out for other people, so if you're getting bullied you know that you're dealing with someone who has problem areas you can exploit or soothe. Sometimes the best way to defeat a bully is to actually help them. If you can think two or three moves ahead, you will commandeer their thought process, and if you do that, you've taken their damn soul without them even realizing it." -David Goggins
"Roger that"" is a ticket back to your life, no matter what happens. You may be laid off, run down, flunked out, cut, or dumped. You could be a stressed-out, bullied young kid, an overweight veteran with no prospects, or simply handed a pair of crutches and told to sit tight on the sidelines for as long as it takes to heal. The answer is always ""Roger-fucking-that."" Scream it out loud. Tell them all that you heard what they had to say and that they can expect your very best in return. And don't forget to smile. A smile reminds them that you are most dangerous when you're cornered. That is how you respond to a setback. It's the most efficient way to deal with adversity and come out clean. p204" -David Goggins
"Well, I am proof that rebirth is possible through discipline, which is the only thing capable of altering your DNA. It is the skeleton key that can get you past all the gatekeepers and into each and every room you wish to enter. Even the ones built to keep you the fuck out!" -David Goggins
"The lesson: you never know who you're affecting. My poor race results meant less than nothing to that young man because I'd helped open his eyes to a new world of possibility and capability that he sensed within himself." -David Goggins
"The only way to guarantee failure is to quit right now, motherfucker!" -David Goggins
"Setting an example through action rather than words will always be the most potent form of leadership, and it's available to all of us. You don't have to be a great public speaker or have an advanced degree. Those things are fine and have their place, but the best way to lead a group is to simply live the example and show your team or classmates, through dedication, effort, performance, and results, what is truly possible. p241" -David Goggins
"People who've spent time on high country trails know the heartbreak of a false summit. When all you want is for the incline to stop kicking your ass, it tricks you into thinking you've made it, only to reveal that you aren't even close! But you don't have to be a trail rat to know that feeling. In life, there are plenty of false summits. Maybe you think you've rocked an assignment at work or school, only to have your teacher or supervisor rip it to pieces or tell you to start over again. False summits can come in the gym when you're doing a hard circuit workout and think you've hit the last set, only to hear from your coach or trainer—or from a quick glance at your own notes—that you have to go back through the entire circuit one last time. We all take a punch like that every once in a while, but those who tend to crane their necks looking for the crest of the mountain as they beg for their suffering to end are the ones who get smashed the most by any false summit. We have to learn to stop looking for a sign that the hard time will end. When the distance is unknown, it is even more critical that you stay locked in so the unknown factor doesn't steal your focus. The end will come when it comes, and anticipation will only distract you from completing the task in front of you to the best of your ability. Remember, the struggle is the whole journey. That's why you're out there. It's why you signed up for this race, or that class, or took the damn job. There is great beauty when you are involved in something that is so hard most people want it to end. When Hell Week ended, most of the guys who survived cheered, wept tears of joy, high-fived, or hugged one another. I got the Hell Week blues because I'd been immersed in the beauty of grinding through it and the personal growth that came with it." -David Goggins
"All over the world amazing human beings like that exist. It doesn't take wearing a uniform. It's not about all the hard schools they graduated from, all their patches and medals. It's about wanting it like there's no tomorrow—because there might not be. It's about thinking of everybody else before yourself and developing your own code of ethics that sets you apart from others. One of those ethics is the drive to turn every negative into a positive, and then when shit starts flying, being prepared to lead from the front." -David Goggins
"Our minds are fucking strong, they are our most powerful weapon, but we have stopped using them." -David Goggins
"Greatness is on the other end of suffering." -David Goggins
"Our culture has become hooked on the quick fix, the life hack, efficiency. Everyone is on the hunt for that simple action algorithm that nets maximum profit with the least amount of effort. There's no denying this attitude may get you some of the trappings of success, if you're lucky, but it will not lead to a calloused mind or self-mastery. If you want to master the mind and remove your governor, you'll have to become addicted to hard work. Because passion and obsession, even talent, are only useful tools if you have the work ethic to back them up. My work ethic is the single most important factor in all of my accomplishments. Everything else is secondary, and when it comes to hard work, whether in the gym or on the job, the 40% Rule applies. p249" -David Goggins
"But digging into the Cookie Jar when things are going south takes focus and determination because at first the brain doesn't want to go there. It wants to remind you that you're suffering and that your goal is impossible. It wants to stop you so it can stop the pain." -David Goggins
"Have the courage and mental endurance to do whatever it takes to start knocking down those walls. You are the warden of your life. Don't forget you hold the keys. #PrisonerMind #NeverFinished" -David Goggins
"Maybe because I knew if I could find comfort at the bottom place there would be no more falling." -David Goggins
"Luis and I were both racing the clock and each other, but we wanted one another to make it. We were in it alone, together, and he was right. We were a couple of fucking idiots." -David Goggins
"the average person thinks 2,000–3,000 thoughts per hour. Rather than focusing on bullshit you cannot change, imagine visualizing the things you can." -David Goggins
"The average person thinks 2,000–3,000 thoughts per hour. That's thirty to fifty per minute! Some" -David Goggins
"Initially, I brainstormed everything that went well, because in every failure a lot of good things will have happened, and we must acknowledge them." -David Goggins
"We are too often told that anger is an unhealthy emotion, but when someone or something has stolen your soul and destroyed your life, anger is a natural response. I am not talking about irrational rage, which can be disastrous and lead you down an even darker hole. I am talking about controlled anger, which is a natural source of energy that can wake you the fuck up and help you realize that what you went through wasn't right. I have cracked open anger several times. It has warmed me when I was freezing, it has turned my fear into bravery, and it has given me fight when I had none. And it can do the same for you. Anger will snap you out of the spell you're in until you are no longer willing to remain confined in your mental prison. You'll be scratching and clawing at the walls, looking for cracks where the light leaks in. Your fingernails will be broken, the tips of your fingers bloody and raw, and you will continue to fight to expand those cracks because your anger will be purifying and the human mind loves progress. Keep at it, and eventually, those walls will tumble until you are free, standing in a debris field one more time, with your eyes wide open. That'll work. Because destruction always breeds creation." -David Goggins
"The longer I watched the more certain I became that there were answers buried in all that suffering. Answers that I needed." -David Goggins
"But sometimes the unexpected descends like chaos, and without warning even the bravest among us must be ready to take on risks and tasks that seem beyond our capabilities." -David Goggins
"All I knew was that there would be pain and there would be purpose." -David Goggins
"twelve" -David Goggins
"See, I don't have any respect for people who live this luxe life 24/7. If I said no to Babbitt, I wouldn't be quitting on him. I would be quitting on myself. I would be making a fear-based choice to no longer be the very person who I became so proud of. It's all well and good to have success and reach a certain level, but I really don't give a fuck what you did yesterday. Maybe you finished Ultraman or graduated from Harvard. I do not care. Respect is earned every day by waking up early, challenging yourself with new dreams or digging up old nightmares, and embracing the suck like you have nothing and have never done a damn thing in your life." -David Goggins
"For survivors of trauma, denial is a tantalizing numbing agent. It allows you to rewrite your past and sell yourself some fiction." -David Goggins
"Luck is a capricious bitch. It won't always go your way, so you can't get trapped in this idea that just because you've imagined a possibility for yourself that you somehow deserve it. Your entitled mind is dead weight. Cut it loose. Don't focus on what you think you deserve. Take aim on what you are willing to earn!" -David Goggins
"The Sound of Silence poured from the stereo. Simon & Garfunkel's words echoed like truth." -David Goggins
"humming" -David Goggins
"See, most civilians don't understand that you need a certain level of callousness to do the job we were being trained to do. To live in a brutal world, you have to accept cold-blooded truths. I'm not saying it's good. I'm not necessarily proud of it. But special ops is a calloused world and it demands a calloused mind." -David Goggins
"Heraclitus, a philosopher born in the Persian Empire back in the fifth century BC, had it right when he wrote about men on the battlefield. ""Out of every one hundred men,"" he wrote, ""ten shouldn't even be there, eighty are just targets, nine are the real fighters, and we are lucky to have them, for they make the battle. Ah, but the one, one is a warrior..."" p13" -David Goggins
"A lot of us surround ourselves with people who speak to our desire for comfort. People who would rather treat the pain of our wounds and prevent further injury than help us callous over them and try again. We need to surround ourselves with people who will tell us what we need to hear, not what we want to hear, but at the same time not make us feel we're up against the impossible." -David Goggins
"Once you find out who the fuck you are, the world will start delivering you care packages filled with opportunities that will fuel your quest." -David Goggins
"It's okay to be cruel to yourself as long as you realize you're doing it to become better. We all need thicker skin to improve in life." -David Goggins
"Whatever happens to us in life, we must aim to keep things net positive. When you have a shitty day, it's tempting to call it an early night and try to forget about it, but if you go to bed in the red, chances are you'll wake up that way, and all too often, that type of negativity snowballs. When your entire day is fucked up, make sure that you achieve something positive before lights out. You'll probably have to stay up a bit later to read, study, get a workout in, or clean the house. Whatever it takes to go to bed in the black, get it done." -David Goggins
"When you're mind knows it's not gonna quit your body will adapt to whatever is in front of it." -David Goggins
"Belief is a gritty, potent, primordial force. In the 1950s, a scientist named Dr. Curt Richter proved this when he gathered dozens of rats and dropped them into thirty-inch-deep glass cylinders filled with water. The first rat paddled on the surface for a short time, then swam to the bottom, where it looked for an escape hatch. It died within two minutes. Several others followed that same pattern. Some lasted as long as fifteen minutes, but they all gave up. Richter was surprised because rats are damn good swimmers, yet in his lab, they drowned without much of a fight. So, he tweaked the test. After he placed the next batch in their jars, Richter watched them, and right before it looked like they were about to give up, he and his techs scooped up the rats, toweled them off, and held them long enough for their heart and respiratory rates to normalize. Long enough for them to register, on a physiological scale, that they had been saved. They did this a few times before Richter placed a group of them back into those evil cylinders again to see how long they would last on their own. This time, the rats didn't give up. They swam their natural asses off…for an average of sixty hours without any food or rest. One swam for eighty-one hours." -David Goggins
"To exist in this world, we must contend with humilia-tion, broken dreams, sadness, and loss." -David Goggins
"knew the empty feeling of giving up, but seeing them face to face reminded me that failure is a part of life and now we all had to press on." -David Goggins
"When you're young, you can only know what you see, and if all you are ever exposed to are lazy people, content with mediocrity or who convince you of your own worthlessness," -David Goggins
"I was betting everything I had on myself with no guarantees." -David Goggins
"Similar to using an opponent's energy to gain an advantage, leaning on your calloused mind in the heat of battle can shift your thinking as well." -David Goggins
"Almost nothing in life is constant. Conditions and circumstances are perpetually in flux like the winds and the tide, which is why my mind is never fixed." -David Goggins
"The" -David Goggins
"Seeds burst from the inside out in a self-destructive ritual of new life" -David Goggins
"I was suffering on an unholy level reserved for dumb fucks who thought the laws of physics and physiology did not apply to them. Cocky bastards like me who felt like they could push the limits safely because they'd done a couple of Hell Weeks." -David Goggins
"I am the lab rat who refused to die! And I'm here to show you how to get to the other side of hell." -David Goggins
"I wasn't in that gym to get happy or do what I wanted to be doing. I was there to turn myself inside out if that's what it took to blast through any and all mental, emotional, and physical barriers." -David Goggins
"I thought about Mora as I gazed into my pristine, polished mirror twenty-two years later while considering Babbitt's invitation to Leadville. I'd been living large for longer than I cared to admit. In this new life of mine, the water was never cold and the One-Second Decision was in danger of becoming a perishable skill. I didn't think I needed it" -David Goggins
"Except my helmet, which was cracked in two," -David Goggins
"Torch the complacency you feel gathering around you, your coworkers, and teammates in that rare air. Continue to put obstacles in front of yourself, because that's where you'll find the friction that will help you grow even stronger. Before you know it, you will stand alone." -David Goggins
"Remember if you stay where you've always been, you will never learn if you have what it takes to venture into the deep water." -David Goggins
"it feels right, create an alter ego to access some of that dark matter in your own mind. That's what I did. In my mind, David Goggins wasn't the savage who accomplished all the hard things. It was Goggins who did that." -David Goggins
"The sky was smeared orange and red." -David Goggins
"There are no shortcuts for you, Goggins!" -David Goggins
"Discipline builds mental endurance because when effort is your main priority, you stop looking for everything to be enjoyable. Our phones and social media have turned too many of us inside out with envy and greed as we get inundated with other people's success, their new cars and houses, big contracts, resort vacations, and romantic getaways. We see how much fun everyone else is having and feel like the world is passing us by, so we complain about it and then wonder why we are not where we want to be." -David Goggins
"The ego is an amazing force. The more I heard about my own success, the more tempting it became to coast, as if I'd finally arrived. Even though" -David Goggins
"Odds are you have had a much better childhood than I did, and even now might have a damn decent life, but no matter who you are, who your parents are or were, where you live, what you do for a living, or how much money you have, you're probably living at about 40 percent of your true capability." -David Goggins
"Physical challenges strengthen my mind so I'm ready for whatever life throws at me, and it will do the same for you." -David Goggins
"They say there's always light at the end of the tunnel, but not once your eyes adjust to the darkness," -David Goggins
"If you're one of the few who acknowledge that, want to callous those wounds, and strengthen your character, it's up to you to go back through your past and make peace with yourself by facing those incidents and all of your negative influences, and accepting them as weak spots in your own character." -David Goggins
"There's great beauty when you're involved in something that's so hard, most people want it to end. Because you're immersed in the beauty of grinding through it, and the personal growth that came with it." -David Goggins
"Give your pain shape. Absorb its power, because you are about to flip that shit." -David Goggins
"What if is an exquisite fuck-you to anyone who has ever doubted your greatness or stood in your way. It silences negativity. It's a reminder that you don't really know what you're capable of until you put everything you've got on the line. It makes the impossible feel at least a little more possible. What if is the power and permission to face down your darkest demons, your very worst memories, and accept them as part of your history. If and when you do that, you will be able to use them as fuel to envision the most audacious, outrageous achievement and go get it." -David Goggins
"only way we can change is to be real with ourselves." -David Goggins
"The struggle is the whole journey. It's why you signed up for this." -David Goggins
"It helps to remind yourself of what you're good at and where you excel so when you have to engage in something that is hard for you, it doesn't become overwhelming. Tell yourself, I'm good here. I'm great there. This sucks, but it will be over in twenty minutes. Maybe it's twenty miles or twenty days or twenty weeks, but it doesn't matter. Every experience on earth is finite. It will end someday, and that makes it doable, but the outcome hinges on those crucial seconds you must win! There are consequences to this shit. Quitting on a dream stays with you. It can color how you see yourself and the decisions you make going forward. Several men have taken their own lives after quitting SEAL training." -David Goggins
"The water doesn't get warmer the longer you wait." -David Goggins
"I was rejecting my past and therefore rejecting myself. My foundation, my character was defined by self-rejection. All my fears came from that deep-seated uneasiness I carried with being David Goggins because of what I'd gone through. Even after I'd reached a point where I no longer cared about what others thought of me, I still had trouble accepting me." -David Goggins
"Look at you," -David GogginsI said. “Why do you think the Air Force wants your punk ass? You stand for nothing. You are an embarrassment." -David GogginsI reached for the shaving cream, smoothed a thin coat over my face, unwrapped a fresh razor and kept talking as I shaved. “You are one dumb motherfucker. You read like a third grader. You're a fucking joke! You've never tried hard at anything in your life besides basketball, and you have goals? That's fucking hilarious." -David Goggins
"It's about wanting it like there's no tomorrow—because there might not be. It's about thinking of everybody else before yourself and developing your own code of ethics that sets you apart from others. One of those ethics is the drive to turn every negative into a positive, and then when shit starts flying, being prepared to lead from the front." -David Goggins
"When we're comfortable we can't answer those simple questions that are bound to arise in the heat of battle because we don't even realize they're coming." -David Goggins
"I wanted to haunt them when they slipped into bed with their wives. I wanted to occupy so much space in their minds that they couldn't even get it up. To me that would be as powerful as putting a knife in their dick. So I deployed a process that I now call “Taking Souls." -David Goggins
"The trip to Buffalo was pure distraction. I wasn't ready to put in the work to change my life, so I went on an evidence-collecting mission." -David Goggins
"metamorphosis." -David Goggins
"I'm not suggesting you crawl up your own ass and bore your friends with all your stories about what a badass you used to be. Nobody wants to hear that shit. I'm talking about utilizing past successes to fuel you to new and bigger ones. Because in the heat of battle, when shit gets real, we need to draw inspiration to push through our own exhaustion, depression, pain, and misery. We need to spark a bunch of small fires to become the motherfucking inferno." -David Goggins
"Everything in life is a mind game! We are forgetting that no matter how bad the pain gets, no matter how harrowing the torture, all bad things end. That forgetting happens the second we give control over our emotions and actions to other people, which can easily happen when pain is peaking." -David Goggins
"Denial is self-protecting, but it's also self-limiting. Accepting your full truth, including all your faults, imperfections, and missteps, allows you to evolve, expand your possibilities, seek redemption, and explore your true potential. And until you unpack your baggage, it will be impossible to know what your potential really is. The whole truth can't haunt you if it serves you." -David Goggins
"Our culture has become hooked on the quick fix, the life hack, efficiency. Everyone is on the hunt for that simple action algorithm that nets maximum profit with the least amount of effort. There's no denying this attitude may get you some of the trappings of success, if you're lucky, but it will not lead to a calloused mind or self-mastery. If you want to master the mind and remove your governor, you'll have to become addicted to hard work. Because passion and obsession, even talent, are only useful tools if you have the work ethic to back them up." -David Goggins
"In life, there are plenty of false summits." -David Goggins
"I have cracked open anger several times. It has warmed me when I was freezing, it has turned my fear into bravery, and it has given me fight when I had none. And it can do the same for you." -David Goggins
"Thanks to all that stretching, I'm in better shape at forty-three than I was in my twenties. Back then I was always sick, wound tight, and stressed out. I" -David Goggins
"if you can manage those moments of pain that come with maximum effort, by remembering what you've been through to get to that point in your life, you will be in a better position to persevere and choose fight over flight. That will allow you to use the adrenaline that comes with a sympathetic response to go even harder." -David Goggins
"Greatness is not something that if you meet it once it stays with you forever." -David Goggins
"and" -David Goggins
"There is another way of thinking and another way of being. It helped me regain control of my life. It allowed me to eviscerate all obstacles in my path until my growth factor became damn near limitless. I'm still haunted, but I've traded in my demons for evil-ass angels, and now, it's a good haunting. I'm haunted by my future goals, not by my past failures. I'm haunted by what I may still become. I'm haunted by my own continued thirst for evolution. p16" -David Goggins
"We are all guilty of allowing so-called experts, or just people who have more experience in a given field than we do, to cap our potential. One reason we love sports is because we also love watching those glass ceilings get shattered. If I was going to be the next athlete to smash popular perception, I'd need to stop listening to doubt." -David Goggins
"A lot of folks feel like they are missing something in their lives—something money can't buy—and that makes them miserable. They attempt to fill the void with material things they can see, feel, and touch. But that empty feeling won't go away. It fades some until all gets quiet again. Then that familiar gnawing in their gut returns, reminding them that the life they are living is not the fullest expression of who they are or might become." -David Goggins
"We've all heard parents say, “He is only a teenager," -David Gogginsor, “She's only in college," -David Gogginswhen explaining away bad habits or poor choices. The question is, when is the right time to start living instead of merely existing?" -David Goggins
"Doing things—even small things—that make you uncomfortable will help make you strong." -David Goggins
"Your entitled mind is dead weight. Cut it loose. Don't focus on what you think you deserve. Take aim on what you are willing to earn!" -David Goggins
"Then there's the belief born in resilience. It comes from working your way through layers of pain, fatigue, and reason, and ignoring the ever-present temptation to quit until you strike a source of fuel you didn't even know existed." -David Goggins
"I was on that spoon-fed path of least resistance, letting dominoes fall on my head, and it was killing me slowly." -David Goggins
"He knew that once he choked a motherfucker out mentally, they would lose all their fight and self-respect, which would make it easier to manipulate and dominate them." -David Goggins
"When you're six, seven, or eight years old, you know what feels right and what feels way the fuck off. And when you are born into a cyclone of terror and pain, you know it doesn't have to be that way, and that truth nags at you like a splinter in your jacked up mind. You can choose to ignore it, but the dull throbbing is always there as the days and nights bleed together into one blurred memory." -David Goggins
"I loved that concept because it sent a message that no matter what we'd accomplished in the outside world, as far as the Rangers were concerned we weren't shit. And I claimed that metaphor for myself, because it's always and forever true. No matter what you or I achieve, in sports, business, or life, we can't be satisfied. Life is too dynamic a game. We're either getting better or we're getting worse. Yes, we need to celebrate our victories. There's power in victory that's transformative, but after our celebration we should dial it down, dream up new training regimens, new goals, and start at zero the very next day." -David Goggins
"The only person you are playing against is yourself." -David Goggins
"in any high-stress environment, your weaknesses will surface like bad karma, build in volume, and overwhelm you." -David Goggins
"Heráclito, un filósofo nacido en el imperio persa durante el quinto siglo a.C., tenía razón cuando escribió sobre los hombres en el campo de batalla. “De cada cien hombres', dijo, “diez no deberían de siquiera estar ahí, ochenta son meros blancos, nueve son los verdaderos combatientes, y tenemos suerte de tenerlos, pues ellos librarán la batalla. Ah, pero hay uno, uno que es un guerrero…'." -David Goggins
"You have to find power in everything negative in your life." -David Goggins
"Going forward it became very important for me to rehash my life, because when you examine your experiences with a fine-toothed comb and see where your issues come from, you can find strength in enduring pain and abuse." -David Goggins
"Greatness is not something that if you meet it once it stays with you forever. That shit evaporates like a flash of oil in a hot pan." -David Goggins
"We can make any obstacle as big or small as we like. It's all in the way we frame it. Going into Leadville, I expected one long, hard motherfucking day. But how many inconsequential days had I lived by then? Why not spend one single day doing something I'll be proud of for the rest of my life? p101" -David Goggins
"we all make habitual, self-limiting choices. It's as natural as a sunset and as fundamental as gravity. It's how our brains are wired, which is why motivation is not enough." -David Goggins
"I'm not crazy. I'm just not you." -David Goggins
"felt as a teenager, but instead of playing the victim and letting negative emotions sap my energy and force me to the surface, a failure, it was as if a new light blazed in my brain that allowed me to flip the script." -David Goggins
"What if?" -David Goggins
"I'm only human" -David Gogginswill lead to throwing in the towel. There is no towel, only water and a cut man." -David Goggins
"the bully and abuser I remembered, but not because he hated my mom or Sue, or my brother or me, but because he was a sick, fucked-up old man who didn't believe he was worth a damn and could not and would not help himself." -David Goggins
"There are two levels to belief. There's the surface level, which our coaches, teachers, therapists, and parents love to preach. “Believe in yourself," -David Gogginsthey all say, as if the thought alone can keep us afloat when the odds are against us in the battle of our lives. But once exhaustion sets in, doubt and insecurity tend to penetrate and dissipate that flimsy brand of belief. Then there's the belief born in resilience. It comes from working your way through layers of pain, fatigue, and reason, and ignoring the ever-present temptation to quit until you strike a source of fuel you didn't even know existed. One that eliminates all doubt, makes you certain of your strength and the fact that eventually, you will prevail, so long as you keep moving forward. That is the level of belief that can defy the expectations of scientists and change everything. It's not an emotion to be shared or an intellectual concept, and nobody else can give it to you. It must bubble up from within." -David Goggins
"How much longer would I wait, how many more years would I burn, wondering if there was some greater purpose out there waiting for me? I knew right then that if I didn't make a stand and start walking the path of most resistance, I would end up in this mental hell forever." -David Goggins
"But by then, failure had long since been neutralized. When I set an unreasonable goal and fall short, I don't even look at it as failure anymore. It is simply my first, second, third, or tenth attempt. That is what belief does for you. It takes failure out of the equation completely because you go in knowing the process will be long and arduous, and that is what the fuck we do." -David Goggins
"permeates" -David Goggins
"I went back to carrying just the one bottle. After I drained it, my hydration plan was the same one I used on long runs in the tropics back in my military days. Whenever I got thirsty, I liked my motherfucking lips. p80" -David Goggins
"It's funny, humans tend to hatch our most challenging goals and dreams, the ones that demand our greatest effort yet promise absolutely nothing, when we are tucked into our comfort zones. I was at work when Kostman laid out his challenge for me. I'd just had a warm shower. I was fed and watered. I was comfortable. And looking back, every single time I've been inspired to do something difficult, I was in a soft environment, because it all sounds doable when you're chilling on your fucking couch, with a glass of lemonade or a chocolate shake in your hand. When we're comfortable we can't answer those simple questions that are bound to arise in the heat of battle because we don't even realize they're coming." -David Goggins
"Esta vida es un maldito juego mental. Date cuenta de ello. ¡Abrázalo aduéñatelo!" -David Goggins
"Willing warriors don't reach for excuses. While it's human nature to try and talk yourself out of doing the hard or inconvenient thing, we know that it's non-negotiable." -David Goggins
"The reason I embrace my own obsessions and demand and desire more of myself is because I've learned that it's only when I push beyond pain and suffering, past my perceived limitations, that I'm capable of accomplishing more, physically and mentally—in endurance races but also in life as a whole." -David Goggins
"So I sought out pain, fell in love with suffering, and eventually transformed myself" -David Goggins
"The original Rocky is still one of my all-time favorite films because it's about a know-nothing journeyman fighter living in poverty with no prospects." -David Goggins
"These guys wanted to do their own PT, which typically meant hitting the gym and getting big. They weren't interested in being punished physically, and definitely weren't interested in being pushed to meet my standard. Their reaction shouldn't have surprised me, but it sure as hell disappointed me and made me lose all respect for their leadership." -David Goggins
"The question is, when is the right time to start living instead of merely existing?" -David Goggins
"Mom, my life from the time I was born until now has been a nightmare. A nightmare that keeps getting worse," -David GogginsI said. “The harder I try, the harder my life becomes." -David Goggins
"A true leader stays exhausted, abhors arrogance, and never looks down on the weakest link. He fights for his men and leads by example." -David Goggins
"Luck is capricious. It won't always go your way, so you can't get trapped in this idea that just because you've imagined a possibility for yourself that you somehow deserve it. Your entitled mind is dead weight. Cut it loose. Don't focus on what you think you deserve. Take aim on what you are willing to earn! I never blamed anyone for my failures, and I didn't hang my head in Nashville. I stayed humble and sidestepped my entitled mind because I knew all too well I hadn't earned my record. The scoreboard does not lie, and I didn't delude myself otherwise. Believe it or not, most people prefer delusion. They blame others or bad luck or chaotic circumstance. I didn't, which was positive." -David Goggins
"motivation is crap." -David Goggins
"most of us give up when we've only given around 40 percent of our maximum effort. Even when we feel like we've reached our absolute limit, we still have 60 percent more to give! That's the governor in action! Once you know that to be true, it's simply a matter of stretching your pain tolerance, letting go of your identity and all your self-limiting stories, so you can get to 60 percent, then 80 percent and beyond without giving up. I call this The" -David Goggins
"Most, if not all, minorities, women, and gay people in America know that strain of loneliness well. Of walking into rooms where you are the only one of your kind. Most white men have no idea how hard it can be. I wish they did. Because then they'd know how it drains you. How some days, all you want to do is stay home and wallow because to go public is to be completely exposed, vulnerable to a world that tracks and judges you." -David Goggins
"Evaluate your life in its totality! We all waste so much time doing meaningless bullshit. We burn hours on social media and watching television, which by the end of the year would add up to entire days and weeks if you tabulated time like you do your taxes." -David Goggins
"I hope you're ready. It's time to go to war with yourself." -David Goggins
"It is a lifelong quest for more knowledge, more courage, more humility and more belief ." -David Goggins
"you want to master the mind and remove your governor, you'll have to become addicted to hard work. Because passion and obsession, even talent, are only useful tools if you have the work ethic to back them up." -David Goggins
"accepting them as weak spots in your own character. Only when you identify and accept your weaknesses will you finally stop running from your past. Then those incidents can be used more efficiently as fuel to become better and grow stronger." -David Goggins
"anymore. I had access to all the finer things. In my house, it was always seventy-two degrees. And that shit feels good, especially when you believe you've earned it. Why put myself through a ten-week training camp or a 100-mile run in Colorado's thin air? I knew damn well how horrible that shit feels and what it takes, but I also knew that this right here was one of the most important One-Second Decisions in my life. This wasn't a fight-or-flight moment. I wasn't overwhelmed by the fear of death. I wasn't on the brink of failure or humiliation, and my heart rate was beating slow and steady. This was a mature version of the unconscious impulse to quit. The one you don't see coming until it greets you at the gate when you think you've finally arrived. See, I don't have any respect for people who live this luxe life 24/7. If I said no to Babbitt, I wouldn't be quitting on him. I would be quitting on myself. I would be making a fear-based choice to no longer" -David Goggins
"The human body is like a stock car. We may look different on the outside, but under the hood we all have huge reservoirs of potential and a governor impeding us from reaching our maximum velocity. In a car, the governor limits the flow of fuel and air so it doesn't burn too hot, which places a ceiling on performance. It's a hardware issue; the governor can easily be removed and if you disable yours, watch your car rocket beyond 130mph. It's a subtler process in the human animal. Our governor is buried deep in our minds, intertwined with our very identity. It knows what and who we love and hate; it's read our whole life story and forms the way we see ourselves and how we'd like to be seen. It's the software that delivers personalized feedback- in the form of pain and exhaustion, but also fear and insecurity, and it uses all of that to encourage us to stop before we risk it all. But, here's the thing, it doesn't have absolute control. Unlike the governor in an engine, ours can't stop us unless we buy into its bullshit and agree to quit. Sadly, most of us give up when we've only given around 40 percent of our maximum effort. Even when we feel like we've reached our absolute limit, we still have 60 percent more to give! That's the governor in action! Once you know that to be true, it's simply a matter of stretching your pain tolerance, letting go of your identity and all your self-limiting stories, so you can get to 60 percent, then 80 percent and beyond without giving up. I call this the 40% Rule, and the reason it's so powerful is that if you follow it, you will unlock your mind to new levels of performance and excellence in sports and in life, and your rewards will run far deeper than mere material success. p211" -David Goggins
"You have been preoccupied by bullshit for way too long. It's time to switch your focus to the things that will slingshot you forward. #DistractingInjuries #NeverFinished Chapter Two 2." -David Goggins
"shame comes when you throw in the motherfucking towel, and if I was born to suffer, then I may as well take my medicine." -David Goggins
"I was proud of him, but I was also proud of myself. I'd had a minimal amount of time to get in shape to qualify for one of the hardest jobs in the world. It had been a demanding journey, with agony an ever-present shadow. Yet at thirteen weeks post-surgery, I rode my bike 444 miles. At eight months, I ran forty-eight miles in forty-five hours, and at nine months, I was challenging twenty-somethings in everything from running to rucking to pull-ups to hauling heavy shit a hell of a long way. But I wasn't out to take their souls. This young group inspired me. I wanted to push them like they were pushing me because they were the next generation of hard, and though I did like winning my fair share of runs and workouts, I liked it even better when they got me. p286" -David Goggins
"If you have worked for thirty years doing the same shit you've hated day in and day out because you were afraid to quit and take a risk, you've been living like a pussy. Period, point blank. Tell yourself the truth! That you've wasted enough time, and that you have other dreams that will take courage to realize, so you don't die a fucking pussy." -David Goggins
"When you separate yourself from the pack by cultivating the values and priorities that lead to greatness, mountains of adversity and hardship become speed bumps, and that makes it easier to adapt to the road ahead and build the new life or sense of self you crave." -David Goggins
"I am a student of life. I carry around a notebook. I keep logs. I study all the upswings and down currents of my days as if the final exam is tomorrow. Because we all have an exam tomorrow. Whether we realize it or not, every interaction, each task is a reflection of your mindset, values, and future prospects. It's an opportunity to be the person you've always wanted to be." -David Goggins
"Massachusetts Institute of Technology." -David Goggins
"In order to execute on your willingness to succeed, you will need to be able to perform without purpose." -David Goggins
"remember my very first day in the gym back in Indiana. My palms were soft and quickly got torn up on the bars because they weren't accustomed to gripping steel. But over time, after thousands of reps, my palms built up a thick callous as protection. The same principle works when it comes to mindset. Until you experience hardships like abuse and bullying, failures and disappointments, your mind will remain soft and exposed. Life experience, especially negative experiences, help callous the mind. But it's up to you where that callous lines up. If you choose to see yourself as a victim of circumstance into adulthood, that callous will become resentment that protects you from the unfamiliar." -David Goggins
"In every failure there is something to be gained." -David Goggins
"Es lo que te dices a ti mismo lo que importa. Las conversaciones más importantes que jamás tendrás son las que tendrás contigo mismo. Despiertas con ellas, caminas con ellas, te vas a la cama con ellas, y eventualmente las llevas a la acción. Tanto si son buenas como si son malas." -David Goggins
"I knew right then that if I didn't make a stand and start walking the path of most resistance, I would end up in this mental hell forever." -David Goggins
"Life is not pass/fail. It's about impact and effort." -David Goggins
"situation" -David Goggins
"You were born to fail." -David Goggins
"Porque no hay línea de meta. Siempre hay más que aprender, y siempre tendrás puntos débiles que reforzar si quieres llegar a ser tan duro como el pico de un pájaro carpintero" -David Goggins
"I had my excuses, of course. My numbness was a survival mechanism. It had been beaten into me by my father. By the time I'd turned seven, I'd developed a POW mindset. Going numb was how I took my beatings and maintained some level of self-respect. Even after my mother and I escaped, I continued to be stalked by tragedy and failure, and numbness was how I coped with the fact that losing was all I ever knew." -David Goggins
"meandering" -David Goggins
"It helps to remind yourself of what you're good at and where you excel so when you have to engage in something that is hard for you, it doesn't become overwhelming. Tell yourself, I'm good here. I'm great there. This sucks, but it will be over in twenty minutes. Maybe it's twenty miles or twenty days or twenty weeks, but it doesn't matter. Every experience on earth is finite. It will end someday, and that makes it doable, but the outcome hinges on those crucial seconds you must win!There are consequences to this shit. Quitting on a dream stays with you. It can color how you see yourself and the decisions you make going forward. Several men have taken their own lives after quitting SEAL training. Others marry the first person who comes around because they are so desperate for validation. Of course, the reverse is also true. If you can withstand the suffering, take a knee, and make a conscious One-second Decision in a critical juncture, you will learn perseverance and gain strength by winning the moment. You will know what it takes and how it feels to overcome all that loud doubt, and that will stay with you too. It will become a powerful skill you can use again and again to find success, no matter what scenario you're in or where life takes you. It's not always the wrong move to quit. Even in battle, sometimes we must retreat. You might not be ready for whatever it is you've taken on. Perhaps your preparation wasn't as thorough as you'd thought. Maybe other priorities in life need your attention. It happens, but make sure that it is a conscious decision you're making, not a reaction. Never quit when your pain and insecurity are at their peak. If you must retreat, quit when it's easy, not when it's hard. Control your thought process and get through the most difficult test first. That way, if you do bow out, you'll know it wasn't a reaction based on reason and had time to devise your plan B. p91" -David Goggins
"It's not always going to be 70 degrees and sunny" -David Goggins
"Pero no es la voz externa la que te hará quebrarte. Es lo que te dices a ti mismo lo que importa. Las conversaciones más importantes que jamás tendrás son las que tendrás contigo mismo. Despiertas con ellas, caminas con ellas, te vas a la cama con ellas, y eventualmente las llevas a la acción. Tanto si son buenas como si son malas." -David Goggins
"There is always more to learn, and you will always have weaknesses to strengthen if you want to become as hard as woodpecker lips. Hard enough to hammer countless miles, and finish that shit strong!" -David Goggins
"delirium," -David Goggins
"This one's for the unusual motherfuckers in this world. A lot of people think that once they reach a certain level of status, respect, or success, that they've made it in life. I'm here to tell you that you always have to find more. Greatness is not something that if you meet it once it stays with you forever. That shit evaporates like a flash of oil in a hot pan. If you truly want to become uncommon amongst the uncommon, it will require sustaining greatness for a long period of time. It requires staying in constant pursuit and putting out unending effort. This may sound appealing but will require everything you have to give and then some. Believe me, this is not for everyone because it will demand singular focus and may upset the balance in your life." -David Goggins
"Like most of us, she didn't want to feel her pain, so she failed to find the power in it." -David Goggins
"It happens, but make sure that it is a conscious decision you're making, not a reaction. Never quit when your pain and insecurity are at their peak. If you must retreat, quit when it's easy, not when it's hard. Control your thought process and get through the most difficult test first. That way, if you do bow out, you'll know it wasn't a reaction based on panic. Instead, you've made a conscious decision based on reason and had time to devise your plan B." -David Goggins
"in every failure there is something to be gained," -David Goggins
"but the one, one is a warrior…" -David Goggins
"Life, like hell week is built on seconds that you must win, repeatedly. Mentally, take a knee. The best person in combat, is the person who takes a knee when the bullets are flying. Reign in your spinning mind, and operate. Quit when it's easy, not when it's hard." -David Goggins
"That is a winner's mentality. Winners in life see everything they experience and everything they hear, see, and feel as pure energy. They train their minds to find it. They drop into the gnarly crevices to mine golden nuggets of trauma, doubt, and hate. They do not live disposable, single-use lives. They discard nothing and refurbish everything. They find strength in the bullying and heartbreak, in their defeats and failures. They harvest it from the people who hate them personally and from the online trolls too." -David Goggins
"Those raised in abusive households have an increased probability of being arrested as a juvenile by 53 percent. Their odds of committing a violent crime as an adult are increased by 38 percent." -David Goggins
"The whole point of the twenty-four-hour mission is to keep up a championship pace, not for a season or a year, but for your entire life! That requires quality rest and recovery time. Because there is no finish line." -David Goggins
"After surviving two Hell Weeks and participating in three, I was a native speaker. Hell Week was home. It was the fairest place I've ever been in this world. There were no timed evolutions. There was nothing graded, and there were no trophies. It was an all-out war of me against me, and that's exactly where I found myself again when I was reduced to my absolute lowest on Hospitality Point." -David Goggins
"best way to avoid a beat down was to make myself as invisible as possible, avert my eyes, float outside my body, and hope to go unnoticed" -David Goggins
"If you audit your life, skip the bullshit, and use backstops, you'll find time to do everything you need and want to do." -David Goggins
"Doing things-even small things- that make you uncomfortable will help make you strong" -David Goggins
"The reasons to say no to something that we know will require our maximum dedication and promises no guarantee of success will bubble up two at a time until we give up before we even get started. That's when I knew I had already gone soft." -David Goggins
"The engine in a rocket ship does not fire without a small spark first. We all need small sparks, small accomplishments in our lives to fuel the big ones. Think of your small accomplishments as kindling. When you want a bonfire, you don't start by lighting a big log. You collect some witch's hair- a small pile of hay or some dry, dead grass. You light that, and then add small sticks and bigger sticks before you feed your tree stump into the blaze. Because it's the small sparks, which start small fires, that eventually build enough heat to burn the whole fucking forest down. p189" -David Goggins
"Of course, it's easy to be open minded when you leave yoga class and are taking a stroll by the beach, but when you're suffering, keeping an open mind is hard work. The same is true if you are facing a daunting challenge on the job or at school." -David Goggins
"My race was completely fucked, and I had over half the distance still to go! Some might look at that version of events and think all was lost, but I knew from experience that the best life lessons don't appear when things go well. It's when all your goals and pretty plans turn to shit that you can see your flaws and learn more about yourself." -David Goggins
"Nothing that happened to me could be considered a fatal condition on its own, yet I spent so much time worrying about what my father did to us, and felt so alone, I was refusing to live. And when you spend your life regretting what was or asking, “Why me?" -David Gogginsyou eventually die having accomplished nothing at all." -David Goggins
"When depression smothers you, it blots out all light and leaves you with nothing to cling onto for hope. All you see is negativity. For me, the only way to make it through that was to feed off my depression. I had to flip it and convince myself that all that self-doubt and anxiety was confirmation that I was no longer living an aimless life. My task may turn out to be impossible but at least I was back on a motherfucking mission." -David Goggins
"The cost of quitting would be lifelong purgatory. I'd be trapped in the knowing that I didn't stay in the fight to the bitter end. There is no shame in getting knocked out. The shame comes when you throw in the motherfucking towel, and if I was born to suffer, then I may as well take my medicine." -David Goggins
"Some people take the opposite path and hide from their fears. They are like villagers terrorized by rumors of a dragon to the point that they cannot leave their own property. They cower, and that dragon, who they have never seen themselves, only gains strength and stature in their minds because when you hide from whatever it is that freaks you out, that growth factor works against you. It will be your fear that grows exponentially while your possibilities become ever more limited." -David Goggins
"There are 86,400 seconds in a day. Losing just one of those seconds can change the outcome of your day and, potentially, your life. #OneSecondDecision #NeverFinished" -David Goggins
"Remember, the struggle is the whole journey. That's why you're out there. It's why you signed up for this race, or that class, or took the damn job. There is great beauty when you are involved in something that is so hard most people want it to end." -David Goggins
"La soledad que sentí al salir de su oficina es algo que nunca olvidaré." -David Goggins
"we all make habitual, self-limiting choices. It's as natural as a sunset and as fundamental as gravity. It's how our brains are wired, which is why motivation is crap." -David Goggins
"Pity is a soothing balm that turns toxic. At first, when your family and friends commiserate with you and validate the reasons you have for grumbling about your circumstances, it lands like sympathy. But the more comfort pity brings you, the more external validation you'll crave and the less independent you will become." -David Goggins
"I hit the Monon trail. Steam poured from my nose and mouth as I grunted and slalomed speed-walkers and joggers. Civilians. Their heads turned as I picked up speed and began sprinting, like Rocky in downtown Philly. I ran as fast as I could for as long as I could, from a past that no longer defined me, toward a future undetermined. All I knew was that there would be pain and there would be purpose. And that I was ready." -David Goggins
"Respect is earned every day by waking up early, challenging yourself with new dreams or digging up old nightmares, and embracing the suck like you have nothing and have never done a damn thing in your life." -David Goggins
"abyss" -David Goggins
"Most of us are motivated as hell to do anything to pursue our dreams until those around us remind us of the danger, the downside, our own limitations, and all the people before us that didn't make it. Sometimes the advice comes from a well-intentioned place. They really believe they are doing it for our own good but if you let them, these same people will talk you out of your dreams, and your governor will help them do it." -David Goggins
"What if is an exquisite fuck-you to anyone who has ever doubted your greatness or stood in your way. It silences negativity. It's a reminder that you don't really know what you're capable of until you put everything you've got on the line. It makes the impossible feel at least a little more possible. What if is the power and permission to face down your darkest demons, your very worst memories, and accept them as part of your history. If and when you do that, you will be able to use them as fuel to envision the most audacious, outrageous achievement and go get it. We live in a world with a lot of insecure, jealous people. Some of them are our best friends. They are blood relatives. Failure terrifies them. So does our success. Because when we transcend what we once thought possible, push our limits, and become more, our light reflects off all the walls they've built up around them. Your light enables them to see the contours of their own prison, their own self-limitations. But if they are truly the great people you always believed them to be, their jealousy will evolve, and soon their imagination might hop its fence, and it will be their turn to change for the better." -David Goggins
"We all owe it to ourselves to stand for something. Principles give us a foundation—solid ground we can trust and build on as we continue to redefine what's possible in our own lives. Sure, some will be put off by your dedication and level of effort. Others will call you obsessed or think that you've gone crazy. When they do, smile and say, “I'm not crazy. I'm just not you." -David Goggins
"We live in a society where mediocrity is often rewarded" -David Goggins
"I knew that there could be so much more to my story than the wreckage I saw around me, and that it was time to decide if I had it in me to go as hard as I could for as long as it took to become a more self-empowered human being. I fought through doubt and insecurity. I wanted to quit every single day, but eventually, belief kicked in. I believed I could evolve, and that same belief has given me the strength and focus to persevere whenever I've been challenged for over two decades." -David Goggins