"There is no friend as loyal as a book." -Ernest Hemingway
"There is nothing to writing. All you do is sit down at a typewriter and bleed." -Ernest Hemingway
"Happiness in intelligent people is the rarest thing I know." -Ernest Hemingway
"I love sleep. My life has the tendency to fall apart when I'm awake, you know?" -Ernest Hemingway
"The most painful thing is losing yourself in the process of loving someone too much, and forgetting that you are special too." -Ernest Hemingway
"There is nothing noble in being superior to your fellow man; true nobility is being superior to your former self." -Ernest Hemingway
"The best way to find out if you can trust somebody is to trust them." -Ernest Hemingway
"Always do sober what you said you'd do drunk. That will teach you to keep your mouth shut." -Ernest Hemingway
"The first draft of anything is shit." -Ernest Hemingway
"The world breaks everyone, and afterward, many are strong at the broken places." -Ernest Hemingway
"All you have to do is write one true sentence. Write the truest sentence that you know." -Ernest Hemingway
"Maybe...you'll fall in love with me all over again.""""Hell,"" I said, ""I love you enough now. What do you want to do? Ruin me?""""Yes. I want to ruin you.""""Good,"" I said. ""That's what I want too." -Ernest Hemingway
"I drink to make other people more interesting." -Ernest Hemingway
"When people talk, listen completely. Most people never listen." -Ernest Hemingway
"All good books are alike in that they are truer than if they had really happened and after you are finished reading one you will feel that all that happened to you and afterwards it all belongs to you: the good and the bad, the ecstasy, the remorse and sorrow, the people and the places and how the weather was. If you can get so that you can give that to people, then you are a writer." -Ernest Hemingway
"Every day is a new day. It is better to be lucky. But I would rather be exact. Then when luck comes you are ready." -Ernest Hemingway
"All thinking men are atheists." -Ernest Hemingway
"Courage is grace under pressure." -Ernest Hemingway
"If people bring so much courage to this world the world has to kill them to break them, so of course it kills them. The world breaks every one and afterward many are strong at the broken places. But those that will not break it kills. It kills the very good and the very gentle and the very brave impartially. If you are none of these you can be sure it will kill you too but there will be no special hurry." -Ernest Hemingway
"Never think that war, no matter how necessary, nor how justified, is not a crime." -Ernest Hemingway
"But man is not made for defeat,"" he said. ""A man can be destroyed but not defeated." -Ernest Hemingway
"You expected to be sad in the fall. Part of you died each year when the leaves fell from the trees and their branches were bare against the wind and the cold, wintery light. But you knew there would always be the spring, as you knew the river would flow again after it was frozen. When the cold rains kept on and killed the spring, it was as though a young person died for no reason." -Ernest Hemingway
"you can't get away from yourself by moving from one place to another." -Ernest Hemingway
"Every man's life ends the same way. It is only the details of how he lived and how he died that distinguish one man from another." -Ernest Hemingway
"The best people possess a feeling for beauty, the courage to take risks, the discipline to tell the truth, the capacity for sacrifice. Ironically, their virtues make them vulnerable; they are often wounded, sometimes destroyed." -Ernest Hemingway
"Never confuse movement with action." -Ernest Hemingway
"A cat has absolute emotional honesty: human beings, for one reason or another, may hide their feelings, but a cat does not." -Ernest Hemingway
"The world breaks every one and afterward many are strong at the broken places." -Ernest Hemingway
"As a writer, you should not judge, you should understand." -Ernest Hemingway
"Forget your personal tragedy. We are all bitched from the start and you especially have to be hurt like hell before you can write seriously. But when you get the damned hurt, use it-don't cheat with it." -Ernest Hemingway
"I'm not brave any more darling. I'm all broken. They've broken me." -Ernest Hemingway
"I can't stand it to think my life is going so fast and I'm not really living it." -Ernest Hemingway
"You are so brave and quiet I forget you are suffering." -Ernest Hemingway
"Never to go on trips with anyone you do not love." -Ernest Hemingway
"And you'll always love me won't you?YesAnd the rain won't make any difference? No" -Ernest Hemingway
"There's no one thing that's true. It's all true." -Ernest Hemingway
"If you are lucky enough to have lived in Paris as a young man, then wherever you go for the rest of your life, it stays with you, for Paris is a moveable feast." -Ernest Hemingway
"My aim is to put down on paper what I see and what I feel in the best and simplest way." -Ernest Hemingway
"Write hard and clear about what hurts." -Ernest Hemingway
"When spring came, even the false spring, there were no problems except where to be happiest. The only thing that could spoil a day was people and if you could keep from making engagements, each day had no limits. People were always the limiters of happiness except for the very few that were as good as spring itself." -Ernest Hemingway
"we would be together and have our books and at night be warm in bed together with the windows open and the stars bright." -Ernest Hemingway
"I didn't want to kiss you goodbye — that was the trouble — I wanted to kiss you good night — and there's a lot of difference." -Ernest Hemingway
"In order to write about life first you must live it." -Ernest Hemingway
"The world breaks everyone and afterward many are strong at the broken places. But those that will not break it kills. It kills the very good and the very gentle and the very brave impartially. If you are none of these you can be sure it will kill you too but there will be no special hurry." -Ernest Hemingway
"No, that is the great fallacy: the wisdom of old men. They do not grow wise. They grow careful." -Ernest Hemingway
"Oh Jake,"" Brett said, ""We could have had such a damned good time together.""Ahead was a mounted policeman in khaki directing traffic. He raised his baton. The car slowed suddenly, pressing Brett against me.Yes,"" I said. ""Isn't it pretty to think so?" -Ernest Hemingway
"So far, about morals, I know only that what is moral is what you feel good after and what is immoral is what you feel bad after." -Ernest Hemingway
"An intelligent man is sometimes forced to be drunk to spend time with his fools." -Ernest Hemingway
"But life isn't hard to manage when you've nothing to lose." -Ernest Hemingway
"When you love you wish to do things for. You wish to sacrifice for. You wish to serve." -Ernest Hemingway
"Isn't it pretty to think so." -Ernest Hemingway
"Now is no time to think of what you do not have.Think of what you can do with that there is" -Ernest Hemingway
"All things truly wicked start from innocence." -Ernest Hemingway
"The first and final thing you have to do in this world is to last it and not be smashed by it." -Ernest Hemingway
"If two people love each other there can be no happy end to it." -Ernest Hemingway
"The hard part about writing a novel is finishing it." -Ernest Hemingway
"It is awfully easy to be hard-boiled about everything in the daytime, but at night it is another thing." -Ernest Hemingway
"They wrote in the old days that it is sweet and fitting to die for one's country. But in modern war, there is nothing sweet nor fitting in your dying. You will die like a dog for no good reason." -Ernest Hemingway
"Let him think that I am more man than I am and I will be so." -Ernest Hemingway
"How did you go bankrupt?"" Two ways. Gradually, then suddenly." -Ernest Hemingway
"Worry a little bit every day and in a lifetime you will lose a couple of years. If something is wrong, fix it if you can. But train yourself not to worry: Worry never fixes anything. " -Ernest Hemingway
"We ate well and cheaply and drank well and cheaply and slept well and warm together and loved each other." -Ernest Hemingway
"I know the night is not the same as the day: that all things are different, that the things of the night cannot be explained in the day, because they do not then exist, and the night can be a dreadful time for lonely people once their loneliness has started." -Ernest Hemingway
"You know it makes one feel rather good deciding not to be a bitch." -Ernest Hemingway
"Often a man wishes to be alone and a girl wishes to be alone too and if they love each other they are jealous of that in each other, but I can truly say we never felt that. We could feel alone when we were together, alone against the others. But we were never lonely and never afraid when we were together." -Ernest Hemingway
"Don't you ever get the feeling that all your life is going by and you're not taking advantage of it? Do you realize you've lived nearly half the time you have to live already?" -Ernest Hemingway
"Madame, all stories, if continued far enough, end in death, and he is no true-story teller who would keep that from you." -Ernest Hemingway
"Why do old men wake so early? Is it to have one longer day?" -Ernest Hemingway
"His talent was as natural as the pattern that was made by the dust on a butterfly's wings. At one time he understood it no more than the butterfly did and he did not know when it was brushed or marred. Later he became conscious of his damaged wings and of their construction and he learned to think and could not fly any more because the love of flight was gone and he could only remember when it had been effortless." -Ernest Hemingway
"It's none of their business that you have to learn how to write. Let them think you were born that way." -Ernest Hemingway
"Live the full life of the mind, exhilarated by new ideas, intoxicated by the Romance of the unusual." -Ernest Hemingway
"There is nothing else than now. There is neither yesterday, certainly, nor is there any tomorrow. How old must you be before you know that? There is only now, and if now is only two days, then two days is your life and everything in it will be in proportion. This is how you live a life in two days. And if you stop complaining and asking for what you never will get, you will have a good life. A good life is not measured by any biblical span." -Ernest Hemingway
"All my life I've looked at words as though I were seeing them for the first time." -Ernest Hemingway
"Poor Faulkner. Does he really think big emotions come from big words? He thinks I don't know the ten-dollar words. I know them all right. But there are older and simpler and better words, and those are the ones I use." -Ernest Hemingway
"We are all broken—that's how the light gets in." -Ernest Hemingway
"Why, darling, I don't live at all when I'm not with you." -Ernest Hemingway
"By then I knew that everything good and bad left an emptiness when it stopped. But if it was bad, the emptiness filled up by itself. If it was good you could only fill it by finding something better." -Ernest Hemingway
"I like to listen. I have learned a great deal from listening carefully. Most people never listen." -Ernest Hemingway
"When you start to live outside yourself, it's all dangerous." -Ernest Hemingway
"I am always in love." -Ernest Hemingway
"The most essential gift for a good writer is a built-in, shockproof, shit detector." -Ernest Hemingway
"After writing a story I was always empty and both sad and happy, as though I had made love, and I was sure this was a very good story although I would not know truly how good until I read it over the next day." -Ernest Hemingway
"When writing a novel a writer should create living people; people not characters. A character is a caricature." -Ernest Hemingway
"It's silly not to hope. It's a sin he thought." -Ernest Hemingway
"Most people were heartless about turtles because a turtle's heart will beat for hours after it has been cut up and butchered. But the old man thought, I have such a heart too." -Ernest Hemingway
"Going to another country doesn't make any difference. I've tried all that. You can't get away from yourself by moving from one place to another. There's nothing to that." -Ernest Hemingway
"I may not be as stong as I think, but I know many tricks and I have resolution." -Ernest Hemingway
"But Paris was a very old city and we were young and nothing was simple there, not even poverty, nor sudden money, nor the moonlight, nor right and wrong nor the breathing of someone who lay beside you in the moonlight." -Ernest Hemingway
"There is no rule on how to write. Sometimes it comes easily and perfectly; sometimes it's like drilling rock and then blasting it out with charges." -Ernest Hemingway
"No one you love is ever truly lost." -Ernest Hemingway
"As I ate the oysters with their strong taste of the sea and their faint metallic taste that the cold white wine washed away, leaving only the sea taste and the succulent texture, and as I drank their cold liquid from each shell and washed it down with the crisp taste of the wine, I lost the empty feeling and began to be happy and to make plans." -Ernest Hemingway
"God knows I had not wanted to fall in love with her. I had not wanted to fall in love with any one. But God knows I had and I lay on the bed in the room of the hospital in Milan and all sorts of things went through my head but I felt wonderful..." -Ernest Hemingway
"I loved you when I saw you today and I loved you always but I never saw you before." -Ernest Hemingway
"He always thought of the sea as 'la mar' which is what people call her in Spanish when they love her. Sometimes those who love her say bad things of her but they are always said as though she were a woman. Some of the younger fishermen, those who used buoys as floats for their lines and had motorboats, bought when the shark livers had brought much money, spoke of her as 'el mar' which is masculine.They spoke of her as a contestant or a place or even an enemy. But the old man always thought of her as feminine and as something that gave or withheld great favours, and if she did wild or wicked things it was because she could not help them. The moon affects her as it does a woman, he thought." -Ernest Hemingway
"The coward dies a thousand deaths, the brave but one'.... (The man who first said that) was probably a coward.... He knew a great deal about cowards but nothing about the brave. The brave dies perhaps two thousand deaths if he's intelligent. He simply doesn't mention them." -Ernest Hemingway
"If the others heard me talking out loud they would think that I am crazy. But since I am not, I do not care." -Ernest Hemingway
"We are all apprentices in a craft where no one ever becomes a master." -Ernest Hemingway
"Everyone behaves badly--given the chance." -Ernest Hemingway
"You belong to me and all Paris belongs to me and I belong to this notebook and this pencil." -Ernest Hemingway
"I'm not unfaithful, darling. I've plenty of faults but I'm very faithful. You'll be sick of me I'll be so faithful." -Ernest Hemingway
"Would you please please please please please please please stop talking?" -Ernest Hemingway
"The world is a fine place and worth fighting for and I hate very much to leave it." -Ernest Hemingway
"The real reason for not committing suicide is because you always know how swell life gets again after the hell is over." -Ernest Hemingway
"He would lie in the bed and finally, with daylight, he would go to sleep. After all, he said to himself, it is probably only insomnia. Many must have it." -Ernest Hemingway
"How little we know of what there is to know. I wish that I were going to live a long time instead of going to die today because I have learned much about life in these four days; more, I think than in all other time. I'd like to be an old man to really know. I wonder if you keep on learning or if there is only a certain amount each man can understand. I thought I knew so many things that I know nothing of. I wish there was more time." -Ernest Hemingway
"Today is only one day in all the days that will ever be. But what will happen in all the other days that ever come can depend on what you do today. It's been that way all this year. It's been that way so many times. All of war is that way." -Ernest Hemingway
"Oh, darling, you will be good to me, won't you? Because we're going to have a strange life." -Ernest Hemingway
"I had an inheritance from my father,It was the moon and the sun.And though I roam all over the world,The spending of it's never done." -Ernest Hemingway
"The thing is to become a master and in your old age to acquire the courage to do what children did when they knew nothing. " -Ernest Hemingway
"Wine is one of the most civilized things in the world and one of the most natural things of the world that has been brought to the greatest perfection, and it offers a greater range for enjoyment and appreciation than, possibly, any other purely sensory thing." -Ernest Hemingway
"It is good that we do not have to try to kill the sun or the moon or the stars. It is enough to live on the sea and kill our true brothers." -Ernest Hemingway
"If my Valentine you won't be,I'll hang myself on your Christmas tree." -Ernest Hemingway
"This was a big storm and he might as well enjoy it. It was ruining everything, but you might as well enjoy it" -Ernest Hemingway
"This is a good place,"" he said.""There's a lot of liquor,"" I agreed." -Ernest Hemingway
"You've such a lovely temperature." -Ernest Hemingway
"There isnt always an explanation for everything." -Ernest Hemingway
"If a writer stops observing he is finished. Experience is communicated by small details intimately observed." -Ernest Hemingway
"We're stronger in the places that we've been broken." -Ernest Hemingway
"You know I don't love any one but you. You shouldn't mind because some one else loved me." -Ernest Hemingway
"Love is just another dirty lie. Love is ergoapiol pills to make me come around because you were afraid to have a baby. Love is quinine and quinine and quinine until I'm deaf with it. Love is that dirty aborting horror that you took me to. Love is my insides all messed up. It's half catheters and half whirling douches. I know about love. Love always hangs up behind the bathroom door. It smells like lysol. To hell with love. Love is making me happy and then going off to sleep with your mouth open while I lie awake all night afraid to say my prayers even because I know I have no right to anymore. Love is all the dirty little tricks you taught me that you probably got out of some book. All right. I'm through with you and I'm through with love." -Ernest Hemingway
"Do you suffer when you write? I don't at all. Suffer like a bastard when don't write, or just before, and feel empty and fucked out afterwards. But never feel as good as while writing." -Ernest Hemingway
"I did not care what it was all about. All I wanted to know was how to live in it. Maybe if you found out how to live in it you learned from that what is was all about." -Ernest Hemingway
"Luck is a thing that comes in many forms and who can recognize her?" -Ernest Hemingway
"I'm with you. No matter what else you have in your head I'm with you and I love you." -Ernest Hemingway
"For what are we born if not to aid one another?" -Ernest Hemingway
"Wine is a grand thing,"" I said. ""It makes you forget all the bad." -Ernest Hemingway
"Listen,"" I told him. ""Don't be so tough so early in the morning. I'm sure you've cut plenty of people's throats. I haven't even had my coffee yet." -Ernest Hemingway
"I've seen you, beauty, and you belong to me now, whoever you are waiting for and if I never see you again, I thought. You belong to me and all Paris belongs to me and I belong to this notebook and this pencil." -Ernest Hemingway
"They say the seeds of what we will do are in all of us, but it always seemed to me that in those who make jokes in life the seeds are covered with better soil and with a higher grade of manure." -Ernest Hemingway
"You did not kill the fish only to keep alive and to sell for food, he thought. You killed him for pride and because you are a fisherman. You loved him when he was alive and you loved him after. If you love him, it is not a sin to kill him. Or is it more?" -Ernest Hemingway
"Any man's life, told truly, is a novel..." -Ernest Hemingway
"Death is like an old whore in a bar--I'll buy her a drink but I won't go upstairs with her" -Ernest Hemingway
"There is never any ending to Paris and the memory of each person who has lived in it differs from that of any other. We always returned to it no matter who we were or how it was changed or with what difficulties, or ease, it could be reached. Paris was always worth it and you received return for whatever you brought to it. But this is how Paris was in the early days when we were very poor and very happy." -Ernest Hemingway
"A writer should write what he has to say and not speak it." -Ernest Hemingway
"I write one page of masterpiece to ninety-one pages of shit. I try to put the shit in the wastebasket." -Ernest Hemingway
"When I saw her I was in love with her. Everything turned over inside of me. She looked toward the door, saw there was no one, then she sat on the side of the bed and leaned over and kissed me." -Ernest Hemingway
"That night at the hotel, in our room with the long empty hall outside and our shoes outside the door, a thick carpet on the floor of the room, outside the windows the rain falling and in the room light and pleasant and cheerful, then the light out and it exciting with smooth sheets and the bed comfortable, feeling that we had come home, feeling no longer alone, waking in the night to find the other one there, and not gone away; all other things were unreal. We slept when we were tired and if we woke the other one woke too so one was not alone. Often a man wishes to be alone and a girl wishes to be alone too and if they love each other they are jealous of that in each other, but I can truly say we never felt that. We could feel alone when we were together, alone against the others ... But we were never lonely and never afraid when we were together. I know that the night is not the same as the day: that all things are different, that the things of the night cannot be explained in the day, because they do not then exist, and the night can be a dreadful time for lonely people once their loneliness has started. But with Catherine there was almost no difference in the night except that it was an even better time. If people bring so much courage to the world the world has to kill them to break them, so of course it kills them. The world breaks every one and afterward many are strong at the broken places. But those that will not break it kills. It kills the very good and the very gentle and the very brave impartially. If you are none of these you can be sure it will kill you too but there will be no special hurry." -Ernest Hemingway
"Never fall in love?""""Always,"" said the count. ""I am always in love." -Ernest Hemingway
"Remember to get the weather in your damn book--weather is very important." -Ernest Hemingway
"My heart's broken,' he thought. 'If I feel this way my heart must be broken." -Ernest Hemingway
"it is all very well for you to write simply and the simpler the better. But do not start to think so damned simply. Know how complicated it is and then state it simply." -Ernest Hemingway
"You're an expatriate. You've lost touch with the soil. You get precious. Fake European standards have ruined you. You drink yourself to death. You become obsessed with sex. You spend all your time talking, not working. You are an expatriate, see? You hang around cafes." -Ernest Hemingway
"Cowards die a thousand deaths, but the brave only die once." -Ernest Hemingway
"There's nothing to writing. All you do is sit down at a typewriter and open a vein." -Ernest Hemingway
"Keep right on lying to me. That's what I want you to do." -Ernest Hemingway
"No animal has more liberty than the cat, but it buries the mess it makes. The cat is the best anarchist." -Ernest Hemingway
"Everybody has strange things that mean things to them. You couldn't help it." -Ernest Hemingway
"As you get older it is harder to have heroes, but it is sort of necessary." -Ernest Hemingway
"Fish,"" he said softly, aloud, ""I'll stay with you until I am dead." -Ernest Hemingway
"Intelligence is so damn rare and the people who have it often have such a bad time with it that they get bitter or propagandistic and then it's not much use." -Ernest Hemingway
"With so many trees in the city, you could see the spring coming each day until a night of warm wind would bring it suddenly in one morning. Sometimes the heavy cold rains would beat it back so that it would seem that it would never come and that you were losing a season out of your life. This was the only truly sad time in Paris because it was unnatural. You expected to be sad in the fall. Part of you died each year when the leaves fell from the trees and their branches were bare against the wind and the cold, wintry light. But you knew there would always be the spring, as you knew the river would flow again after it was frozen. When the cold rains kept on and killed the spring, it was as though a young person had died for no reason. In those days, though, the spring always came finally but it was frightening that it had nearly failed." -Ernest Hemingway
"You're not a moron. You're only a case of arrested development." -Ernest Hemingway
"Dying was nothing and he had no picture of it nor fear of it in his mind. But living was a field of grain blowing in the wind on the side of a hill. Living was a hawk in the sky. Living was an earthen jar of water in the dust of the threshing with the grain flailed out and the chaff blowing. Living was a horse between your legs and a carbine under one leg and a hill and a valley and a stream with trees along it and the far side of the valley and the hills beyond." -Ernest Hemingway
"When you stop doing things for fun you might as well be dead." -Ernest Hemingway
"Hunger is good discipline." -Ernest Hemingway
"There isn't any me. I'm you. Don't make up a separate me." -Ernest Hemingway
"Oh, darling, I've been so miserable." -Ernest Hemingway
"I am glad we do not have to try to kill the stars." -Ernest Hemingway
"No one should be alone in their old age, he thought." -Ernest Hemingway
"If the reader prefers, this book may be regarded as fiction. But there is always the chance that such a book of fiction may throw some light on what has been written as fact." -Ernest Hemingway
"Then there is the other secret. There isn't any symbolysm [sic]. The sea is the sea. The old man is an old man. The boy is a boy and the fish is a fish. The shark are all sharks no better and no worse. All the symbolism that people say is shit. What goes beyond is what you see beyond when you know." -Ernest Hemingway
"My life used to be full of everything. Now if you aren't with me I haven't a thing in the world." -Ernest Hemingway
"Drinking wine was not a snobbism nor a sign of sophistication nor a cult; it was as natural as eating and to me as necessary..." -Ernest Hemingway
"I would stand and look out over the roofs of Paris and think, ""Do not worry. You have always written before and you will write now. All you have to do is write one true sentence. Write the truest sentence that you know." -Ernest Hemingway
"You won't do our things with another girl, or say the same things, will you?" -Ernest Hemingway
"No subject is terrible if the story is true, if the prose is clean and honest, and if it affirms courage and grace under pressure." -Ernest Hemingway
"The man who has begun to live more seriously within begins to live more simply without" -Ernest Hemingway
"You'll ache. And you're going to love it. It will crush you. And you're still going to love all of it. Doesn't it sound lovely beyond belief?" -Ernest Hemingway
"Show the readers everything, tell them nothing." -Ernest Hemingway
"Nobody ever lives their life all the way up except bullfighters." -Ernest Hemingway
"I thought that all generations were lost by something and always had been and always would be" -Ernest Hemingway
"She was looking into my eyes with that way she had of looking that made you wonder whether she really saw out of her own eyes. They would look on and on after every one else's eyes in the world would have stopped looking. She looked as though there were nothing on earth she would not look at like that, and really she was afraid of so many things." -Ernest Hemingway
"But in the night he woke and held her tight as though she were all of life and it was being taken from him. He held her feeling she was all of life there was and it was true." -Ernest Hemingway
"Fish,"" he said, ""I love you and respect you very much. But I will kill you dead before this day ends." -Ernest Hemingway
"I mistrust all frank and simple people, especially when their stories hold together" -Ernest Hemingway
"He'll never be frightened. He knows too damn much." -Ernest Hemingway
"People were always the limiters of happiness except for the very few that were as good as spring itself." -Ernest Hemingway
"Go all the way with it. Do not back off. For once, go all the goddamn way with what matters." -Ernest Hemingway
"Road to hell paved in unbought stuffed dogs. Not my fault." -Ernest Hemingway
"You know it makes one feel rather good deciding not to be a bitch."" ""Yes."" ""It's sort of what we have instead of God." -Ernest Hemingway
"A man can be destroyed but not defeated." -Ernest Hemingway
"But sometimes when I was starting a new story and I could not get it going, I would sit in front of the fire and squeeze the peel of the little oranges into the edge of the flame and watch the sputter of blue that they made. I would stand and look out over the roofs of Paris and think, 'Do not worry. You have always written before and you will write now. All you have to do is write one true sentence. Write the truest sentence that you know.' So finally I would write one true sentence, and then go on from there." -Ernest Hemingway
"This wine is too good for toast-drinking, my dear. You don't want to mix emotions up with a wine like that. You lose the taste." -Ernest Hemingway
"Are you a communist?""""No I am an anti-fascist""""For a long time?""""Since I have understood fascism." -Ernest Hemingway
"Never sit a table when you can stand at the bar." -Ernest Hemingway
"He no longer dreamed of storms, nor of women, nor of great occurrences, nor of great fish, nor fights, nor contests of strength, nor of his wife. He only dreamed of places now and the lions on the beach. They played like young cats in the dusk and he loved them as he loved the boy. He never dreamed about the boy. He simply woke, looked out the open door at the moon and unrolled his trousers and put them on." -Ernest Hemingway
"Being against evil doesn't make you good. Tonight I was against it and then I was evil myself. I could feel it coming just like a tide... I just want to destroy them. But when you start taking pleasure in it you are awfully close to the thing you're fighting." -Ernest Hemingway
"You are all a lost generation.[with credit to Gertrude Stein]" -Ernest Hemingway
"Our nada who art in nada, nada be thy name thy kingdom nada thy will be nada in nada as it is in nada. Give us this nada our daily nada and nada us our nada as we nada our nadas and nada us not into nada but deliver us from nada; pues nada. Hail nothing full of nothing, nothing is with thee." -Ernest Hemingway
"You must be prepared to work always without applause." -Ernest Hemingway
"All modern American literature comes from one book by Mark Twain called Huckleberry Finn. American writing comes from that. There was nothing before. There has been nothing as good since." -Ernest Hemingway
"If we win here we will win everywhere. The world is a fine place and worth the fighting for and I hate very much to leave it." -Ernest Hemingway
"And another thing. Don't ever kid yourself about loving some one. It is just that most people are not lucky enough ever to have it. You never had it before and now you have it. What you have with Maria, whether it lasts just through today and a part of tomorrow, or whether it lasts for a long life is the most important thing that can happen to a human being. There will always be people who say it does not exist because they cannot have it. But I tell you it is true and that you have it and that you are lucky even if you die tomorrow." -Ernest Hemingway
"I love you and I always will and I am sorry. What a useless word." -Ernest Hemingway
"Good writing is good conversation, only more so." -Ernest Hemingway
"I believe that basically you write for two people; yourself to try and make it absolutely perfect; or if not that then wonderful. Then you write for who you love whether they can read or write or not and whether they are alive or dead." -Ernest Hemingway
"I always worked until I had something done and I always stopped when I knew what was going to happen next. That way I could be sure of going on the next day." -Ernest Hemingway
"If he wrote it, he could get rid of it. He had gotten rid of many things by writing them." -Ernest Hemingway
"It could be worse,' Passini said respectfully. ""There is nothing worse than war."" Defeat is worse."" I do not believe it,"" Passini said still respectfully. ""What is defeat? You go home." -Ernest Hemingway
"There will always be people who say it does not exist because they cannot have it. But I tell you it is true and that you have it and that you are lucky even if you die tomorrow." -Ernest Hemingway
"My big fish must be somewhere." -Ernest Hemingway
"The people that I liked and had not met went to the big cafes because they were lost in them and no one noticed them and they could be alone in them and be together." -Ernest Hemingway
"Perhaps as you went along you did learn something. I did not care what it was all about. All I wanted to know was how to live in it. Maybe if you found out how to live in it you learned from that what it was all about." -Ernest Hemingway
"The road to hell is paved with unbought stuffed animals" -Ernest Hemingway
"There are many who do not know they are fascists but will find it out when the time comes." -Ernest Hemingway
"He was just a coward and that was the worst luck any many could have." -Ernest Hemingway
"I had gone to no such place but to the smoke of cafes and nights when the room whirled and you needed to look at the wall to make it stop, nights in bed, drunk, when you knew that that was all there was, and the strange excitement of waking and not knowing who it was with you, and the world all unreal in the dark and so exciting that you must resume again unknowing and not caring in the night, sure that this was all and all and all and not caring." -Ernest Hemingway
"Why did they make birds so delicate and fine as those sea swallows when the ocean can be so cruel?" -Ernest Hemingway
"Never, never tell them. Try and remember that. Never tell anyone anything ever. Never tell anyone anything again." -Ernest Hemingway
"I always try to write on the principle of the iceberg. There is seven-eighths of it underwater for every part that shows." -Ernest Hemingway
"In the morning there was a big wind blowing and the waves were running high up on the beach and he was awake a long time before he remembered that his heart was broken." -Ernest Hemingway
"It is by riding a bicycle that you learn the contours of a country best, since you have to sweat up the hills and coast down them." -Ernest Hemingway
"When you have two people who love each other, are happy and gay and really good work is being done by one or both of them, people are drawn to them as surely as migrating birds are drawn at night to a powerful beacon. If the two people were as solidly constructed as the beacon there would be little damage except to the birds. Those who attract people by their happiness and their performance are usually inexperienced. They do not know how not to be overrun and how to go away. They do not always learn about the good, the attractive, the charming, the soon-beloved, the generous, the understanding rich who have no bad qualities and who give each day the quality of a festival and who, when they have passed and taken the nourishment they needed, leave everything deader than the roots of any grass Attila's horses' hooves have ever scoured." -Ernest Hemingway
"Out of all the things you could not have there were some things that you could have and one of those was to know when you were happy and to enjoy all of it while it was there and it was good." -Ernest Hemingway
"I say that is wine,"" Brett held up her glass. ""We ought to toast something. 'Here's to royalty.'""""This wine is too good for toast-drinking, my dear. you don't want to mix emotions up with a wine like that. you lose the taste.""Brett's glass was empty." -Ernest Hemingway
"And bed, he thought. Bed is my friend. Just bed, he thought. Bed will be a great thing. It is easy when you are beaten, he thought. I never knew how easy it was. And what beat you, the thought." -Ernest Hemingway
"There are only three sports: bullfighting, motor racing, and mountaineering; all the rest are merely games." -Ernest Hemingway
"The fish is my friend too... I have never seen or heard of such a fish. But I must kill him. I am glad we do not have to try to kill the stars. Imagine if each day a man must try to kill the moon, he thought. The moon runs away. But imagine if a man each day should have to try to kill the sun? We were born lucky; he thought" -Ernest Hemingway
"Perhaps I should not have been a fisherman, he thought. But that was the thing that I was born for." -Ernest Hemingway
"Work every day. No matter what has happened the day or night before, get up and bite on the nail." -Ernest Hemingway
"He remembered the time he had hooked one of a pair of marlin. The male fish always let the female fish feed first and the hooked fish, the female, made a wild, panic-stricken, despairing fight that soon exhausted her, and all the time the male had stayed with her, crossing the line and circling with her on the surface. He had stayed so close that the old man was afraid he would cut the line with his tail which was sharp as a scythe and almost of that size and shape. When the old man had gaffed her and clubbed her, holding the rapier bill with its sandpaper edge and clubbing her across the top of her head until her colour turned to a colour almost like the backing of mirrors, and then, with the boy's aid, hoisted her aboard, the male fish had stayed by the side of the boat. Then, while the old man was clearing the lines and preparing the harpoon, the male fish jumped high into the air beside the boat to see where the female was and then went down deep, his lavender wings, that were his pectoral fins, spread wide and all his wide lavender stripes showing. He was beautiful, the old man remembered, and he had stayed." -Ernest Hemingway
"Prose is architecture, not interior decoration." -Ernest Hemingway
"I don't. I don't want anybody else to touch you. I'm silly. I get furious if they touch you." -Ernest Hemingway
"I don't feel any way,' the girl said. 'I just know things." -Ernest Hemingway
"When writing a novel a writer should create living people; people not characters. A character is a caricature. If a writer can make people live there may be no great characters in his book, but it is possible that his book will remain as a whole; as an entity; as a novel. If the people the writer is making talk of old masters; of music; of modern painting; of letters; or of science then they should talk of those subjects in the novel. If they do not talk of these subjects and the writer makes them talk of them he is a faker, and if he talks about them himself to show how much he knows then he is showing off. No matter how good a phrase or a simile he may have if he puts it in where it is not absolutely necessary and irreplaceable he is spoiling his work for egotism. Prose is architecture, not interior decoration, and the Baroque is over. For a writer to put his own intellectual musings, which he might sell for a low price as essays, into the mouths of artificially constructed characters which are more remunerative when issued as people in a novel is good economics, perhaps, but does not make literature. People in a novel, not skillfully constructed characters, must be projected from the writer's assimilated experience, from his knowledge, from his head, from his heart and from all there is of him. If he ever has luck as well as seriousness and gets them out entire they will have more than one dimension and they will last a long time. A good writer should know as near everything as possible. Naturally he will not. A great enough writer seems to be born with knowledge. But he really is not; he has only been born with the ability to learn in a quicker ratio to the passage of time than other men and without conscious application, and with an intelligence to accept or reject what is already presented as knowledge. There are some things which cannot be learned quickly and time, which is all we have, must be paid heavily for their acquiring. They are the very simplest things and because it takes a man's life to know them the little new that each man gets from life is very costly and the only heritage he has to leave. Every novel which is truly written contributes to the total of knowledge which is there at the disposal of the next writer who comes, but the next writer must pay, always, a certain nominal percentage in experience to be able to understand and assimilate what is available as his birthright and what he must, in turn, take his departure from. If a writer of prose knows enough about what he is writing about he may omit things that he knows and the reader, if the writer is writing truly enough, will have a feeling of those things as strongly as though the writer had stated them. The dignity of movement of an ice-berg is due to only one-eighth of it being above water. A writer who omits things because he does not know them only makes hollow places in his writing. A writer who appreciates the seriousness of writing so little that he is anxious to make people see he is formally educated, cultured or well-bred is merely a popinjay. And this too remember; a serious writer is not to be confounded with a solemn writer. A serious writer may be a hawk or a buzzard or even a popinjay, but a solemn writer is always a bloody owl." -Ernest Hemingway
"It's harder to write in the third person but the advantage is you move around better." -Ernest Hemingway
"People who write fiction, if they had not taken it up, might have become very successful liars." -Ernest Hemingway
"But did thee feel the earth move?" -Ernest Hemingway
"I try not to borrow, first you borrow then you beg." -Ernest Hemingway
"Don't you ever get the feeling that all your life is going by and you're not taking advantage of it? Do you realize you've lived nearly half the time you have to live already?""  ""Yes, every once in a while.""  ""Do you know that in abou thirty- five more years we'll be dead?""  ""What the hell, Robert,"" I said. ""What the hell.""  ""I'm serious.""  ""It's one thig I don't worry about,"" I said.  ""You ought to.""  ""I've had plenty to worry about one time or other. I'm through worrying.""  ""Well, I want to go to South America.""  ""Listen, Robert, going to another country doesn't make any difference. I've tried all that. You can't get away from yourself by moving from one place to another. There's nothing to that.""  ""But you've never been to South America.""  ""South America hell! If you went there the way you feel now it would be exactly the same. This is a good town. Why don't you start living your life in Paris?" -Ernest Hemingway
"This is a hell of dull talk... How about some of that champagne?" -Ernest Hemingway
"Remember everything is right until it's wrong. You'll know when it's wrong." -Ernest Hemingway
"I wish I had died before I ever loved anyone but her." -Ernest Hemingway
"You ought to dream. All our biggest businessmen have been dreamers." -Ernest Hemingway
"All cowardice comes from not truly loving, or at least, not loving well." -Ernest Hemingway
"I don't want to be your friend, baby. I am your friend." -Ernest Hemingway
"I suppose if a man has something once, always something of it remains." -Ernest Hemingway
"Nobody climbs on skis now and almost everybody breaks their legs but maybe it is easier in the end to break your legs than to break your heart although they say that everything breaks now and that sometimes, afterwards, many are stronger at the broken places." -Ernest Hemingway
"Never be daunted" -Ernest Hemingway
"Now I am depressed myself,' I said. 'That's why I never think about these things. I never think and yet when I begin to talk I say the things I have found out in my mind without thinking." -Ernest Hemingway
"To be able to say: I loved this person, we had a hell of a nice time together, it's over but in a way it will never be over and I do know that I for sure loved this person, to be able to say that and mean it, that's rare, señor. That's rare and valuable.'— Ernest Hemingway, from The Complete Short Stories " -Ernest Hemingway
"You'll lose it, if you talk about it" -Ernest Hemingway
"If there's empty spaces in your heart,They'll make you think it's wrong,Like having empty spaces,Means you never can be strong,But I've learned that all these spaces,Means there's room enough to grow,And the people that once filled them,Were always meant to be let go,And all these empty spaces,Create a strange sort of pull,That attract so many people,You wouldn't meet if they were full,So if you're made of empty spaces,Don't ever think it's wrong,Because maybe they're just empty,Until the right person comes along." -Ernest Hemingway
"The world was not wheeling anymore. It was just very clear and bright and inclined to blur at the edges." -Ernest Hemingway
"I hate a cramp, he thought. It is a treachery of one's own body." -Ernest Hemingway
"Take a good rest, small bird,"" he said. ""Then go in and take your chance like any man or bird or fish." -Ernest Hemingway
"For him it was a dark passage which led to nowhere, then to nowhere, then again to nowhere, once again to nowhere, always and forever to nowhere, heavy on the elbows in the earth to nowhere, dark, never any end to nowhere, hung on all time always to unknowing nowhere, this time and again for always to nowhere, now not to be borne once again always and to nowhere, now beyond all bearing up, up, up and into nowhere, suddenly, scaldingly, holdingly all nowhere gone and time absolutely still and they were both there, time having stopped and he felt the earth move out and away from under them." -Ernest Hemingway
"You can write any time people will leave you alone and not interrupt you. Or rather you can if you will be ruthless enough about it. But the best writing is certainly when you are in love." -Ernest Hemingway
"Once in camp I put a log on a fire and it was full of ants. As it commenced to burn, the ants swarmed out and went first toward the center where the fire was; then turned back and ran toward the end. When there were enough on the end they fell off into the fire. Some got out, their bodies burnt and flattened, and went off not knowing where they were going. But most of them went toward the fire and then back toward the end and swarmed on the cool end and finally fell off into the fire. I remember thinking at the time that it was the end of the world and a splendid chance to be a messiah and lift the log off the fire and throw it out where the ants could get off onto the ground. But I did not do anything but throw a tin cup of water on the log, so that I would have the cup empty to put whiskey in before I added water to it. I think the cup of water on the burning log only steamed the ants." -Ernest Hemingway
"This was the price you paid for sleeping together. This was the end of the trap. This was what people got for loving each other." -Ernest Hemingway
"A man's got to take a lot of punishment to write a really funny book." -Ernest Hemingway
"Writing, at its best, is a lonely life. Organizations for writers palliate the writer's loneliness but I doubt if they improve his writing. He grows in public stature as he sheds his loneliness and often his work deteriorates. For he does his work alone and if he is a good enough writer he must face eternity, or the lack of it, each day." -Ernest Hemingway
"There is no hunting like the hunting of man, and those who have hunted armed men long enough and liked it, never care for anything else thereafter." -Ernest Hemingway
"I love thee and thou art so lovely and so wonderful and so beautiful and it does such things to me to be with thee that I feel as though I wanted to die when I am loving thee." -Ernest Hemingway
"So this was how you died, in whispers that you did not hear." -Ernest Hemingway
"When I saw my wife again standing by the tracks as the train came in by the piled logs at the station, I wished I had died before I had ever loved anyone but her." -Ernest Hemingway
"My,' she said. 'We're lucky that you found the place.'We're always lucky,' I said and like a fool I did not knock on wood. There was wood everywhere in that apartment to knock on too." -Ernest Hemingway
"The only kind of writing is rewriting." -Ernest Hemingway
"Got tight on absinthe last night. Did knife tricks." -Ernest Hemingway
"There is no reason why because it is dark you should look at things differently from when it is light." -Ernest Hemingway
"Do you know how an ugly woman feels? Do you know what it is to be ugly all your life and inside to feel that you are beautiful? It is very rare." -Ernest Hemingway
"For a long time now I have tried simply to write the best I can. Sometimes I have good luck and write better than I can." -Ernest Hemingway
"Do not think about sin, he thought. There are enough problems now without sin. Also I have no understanding of it." -Ernest Hemingway
"It was like certain dinners I remember from the war. There was much wine, an ignored tension, and a feeling of things coming that you could not prevent happening. Under the wine I lost the disgusted feeling and was happy. It seemed they were all such nice people." -Ernest Hemingway
"Never think that war, no matter how necessary nor how justified, is not a crime. Ask the infantry and ask the dead." -Ernest Hemingway
"The bulls are my best friends.""I translated to Brett.""You kill your friends?"" she asked.""Always,"" he said in English, and laughed. ""So they don't kill me." -Ernest Hemingway
"What difference does it make if you live in a picturesque little outhouse surrounded by 300 feeble minded goats and your faithful dog? The question is: Can you write?" -Ernest Hemingway
"Mice: What is the best early training for a writer?Y.C.: An unhappy childhood." -Ernest Hemingway
"I had learned already never to empty the well of my writing, but always to stop when there was still something there in the deep part of the well, and let it refill at night from the springs that fed it." -Ernest Hemingway
"Religion is the opium of the poor" -Ernest Hemingway
"I felt very lonely when they were all there." -Ernest Hemingway
"One cat just leads to another.""[Letter from Finca Vigia, Cuba, to his first wife, Elizabeth Hadley Richardson (1943).]" -Ernest Hemingway
"The world is a fine place and worth the fighting for and I hate very much to leave it. And you had a lot of luck, he told himself, to have had such a good life. You've had just as good a life as grandfather's though not as long. You've had as good a life as any because of these last days. You do not want to complain when you have been so lucky. I wish there was some way to pass on what I've learned, though." -Ernest Hemingway
"You'll ache. And you're going to love it. It will crush you. And you're still going to love all of it." -Ernest Hemingway
"But, he thought, I keep them with precision. Only I have no luck anymore. But who knows? Maybe today. Every day is a new day. It is better to be lucky. But I would rather be exact. Then when luck comes you are ready." -Ernest Hemingway
"Once writing has become your major vice and greatest pleasure only death can stop it." -Ernest Hemingway
"You roll back to me." -Ernest Hemingway
"War is not won by victory." -Ernest Hemingway
"If a writer of prose knows enough about what he is writing about, he may omit things that he knows and the reader, if the writer is writing truly enough, will have a feeling of those things as strongly as though the writer had stated them. The dignity of movement of an iceberg is due to only one-eighth of it being above water" -Ernest Hemingway
"I write description in longhand because that's hardest for me and you're closer to the paper when you work by hand, but I use the typewriter for dialogue because people speak like a typewriter works." -Ernest Hemingway
"My father was a deeply sentimental man. And like all sentimental men, he was also very cruel." -Ernest Hemingway
"For a poet he threw a very accurate milk bottle." -Ernest Hemingway
"I'd like to destroy you a few times in bed." -Ernest Hemingway
"Now is no time to think of what you do not have. Think of what you can do with what there is." -Ernest Hemingway
"Your blood coagulates beautifully." -Ernest Hemingway
"But in the meantime all the life you have or ever will have is today, tonight, tomorrow, today, tonight, tomorrow, over and over again (I hope), ..." -Ernest Hemingway
"It's all nonsense. It's only nonsense. I'm not afraid of the rain. I am not afraid of the rain. Oh, oh, God, I wish I wasn't." -Ernest Hemingway
"You have always written before and you will write now. All you have to do is write one true sentence. Write the truest sentence that you know" -Ernest Hemingway
"You make something from things that have happened and from things that exist and from all things that you know and all those you cannot know, and you make something through your invention that is truer than anything true and alive, and if you make it well enough, you give it immortality." -Ernest Hemingway
"You never kill anyone you want to kill in a war, he said to himself." -Ernest Hemingway
"Only I have no luck any more. But who knows? Maybe today. Every day is a new day. It is better to be lucky. But I would rather be exact. Then when luck comes you are ready." -Ernest Hemingway
"He rested sitting on the un-stepped mast and sail and tried not to think but only to endure." -Ernest Hemingway
"That is what we are supposed to do when we are at our best - make it all up - but make it up so truly that later it will happen that way." -Ernest Hemingway
"A wine shop was open and I went in for some coffee. It smelled of early morning, of swept dust, spoons in coffee-glasses and the wet circles left by wine glasses." -Ernest Hemingway
"No tears in the writer, no tears in the reader" -Ernest Hemingway
"And you treat me wonderfully and keep all your promises." -Ernest Hemingway
"But you always fall for somebody else and then it's all right. Fall for them but don't let them ruin you." -Ernest Hemingway
"What you tell me about in the nights. That is not love. That is only passion and lust. When you love you wish to do things for. You wish to sacrifice for. You wish to serve." -Ernest Hemingway
"Since I had started to break down all my writing and get rid of all facility and try to make instead of describe, writing had been wonderful to do." -Ernest Hemingway
"I am thee and thou art me and all of one is the other." -Ernest Hemingway
"Up the road, in his shack, the old man was sleeping again. He was still sleeping on his face and the boy was sitting by him watching him. The old man was dreaming about the lions." -Ernest Hemingway
"In going where you have to go, and doing what you have to do, and seeing what you have to see, you'll dull and blunt the instrument you write with. But I would rather have it bent and dull and know I had to put it to the grindstone again and hammer it into shape and put a whetstone to it, and know that I had something to write about, than to have it bright and shining and nothing to say, or smooth and well-oiled in the closet, but unused." -Ernest Hemingway
"I was young and not gloomy and there were always strange and comic things that happened in the worst time..." -Ernest Hemingway
"Poor Faulkner. Does he really think big emotions come from big words?" -Ernest Hemingway
"where a man feels at home, outside of where he's born, is where he's meant to go." -Ernest Hemingway
"No; that doesn't interest me.''That's because you never read a book about it." -Ernest Hemingway
"Oh, now, now, now, the only now, and above all now, and there is no other now but thou now and now is thy prophet." -Ernest Hemingway
"Happiness is often presented as being very dull but, he thought, lying awake, that is because dull people are sometimes very happy and intelligent people can and do go around making themselves and everyone else miserable. He had never found happiness dull. It always seemed more exciting than any other thing and capable of as great intensity as sorrow to those people who were capable of having it." -Ernest Hemingway
"He had loved too much, demanded too much, and he wore it all out." -Ernest Hemingway
"Kilimanjaro is a snow-covered mountain 19,710 feet high, and is said to be the highest mountain in Africa. Its western summit is called the Masai 'Ngaje Ngai', the House of God. Close to the western summit there is a dried and frozen carcas of a leopard. No one has explained what the leopard was seeking at that altitude." -Ernest Hemingway
"We have very primative emotions. It's impossible not to be competitive. Spoils everything, though." -Ernest Hemingway
"Today is only one day in all the days that will ever be." -Ernest Hemingway
"Don't you ever get the feeling that all your life is going by and you're not taking advantage of it?" -Ernest Hemingway
"I did not say anything. I was always embarrassed by the words sacred, glorious, and sacrifice and the expression in vain. We had heard them, sometimes standing in the rain almost out of earshot, so that only the shouted words came through, and had read them on proclamations that were slapped up by billposters over other proclamations, now for a long time, and I had seen nothing sacred, and the things that were glorious had no glory and the sacrifices were like the stock yards at Chicago if nothing was done with the meat except to bury it." -Ernest Hemingway
"Of all men the drunkard is the foulest. The thief when he is not stealing is like another. The extortioner does not practice in the home. The murderer when he is at home can wash his hands. But the drunkard stinks and vomits in this own bed and dissolves his organs in alcohol." -Ernest Hemingway
"Now he would never write the things that he had saved to write until he knew enough to write them well. Well, he would not have to fail at trying to write them either. Maybe you could never write them, and that was why you put them off and delayed the starting. Well he would never know, now." -Ernest Hemingway
"Every man has two deaths, when he is buried in the ground and the last time someone says his name. In some ways men can be immortal." -Ernest Hemingway
"The world is a fine place, and worth fighting for." -Ernest Hemingway
"You don't have to destroy me. Do you? ..." -Ernest Hemingway
"In the early morning on the lake sitting in the stern of the boat with his father rowing, he felt quite sure that he would never die." -Ernest Hemingway
"One cat leads to another." -Ernest Hemingway
"The shortest answer is doing the thing." -Ernest Hemingway
"Please understand and love me." -Ernest Hemingway
"I am one of those who like to stay late at the cafe,"" the older waiter said. ""With all those who do not want to go to bed. With all those who need a light for the night.""""I want to go home and into bed.""""We are of two different kinds,"" the older waiter said. He was now dressed to go home. ""It is not only a question of youth and confidence although those things are very beautiful. Each night. I am reluctant to close up because there may be someone who needs the cafe." -Ernest Hemingway
"He liked the works of his friends, which is beautiful as loyalty but can be disastrous as judgement." -Ernest Hemingway
"You should only read what is truly good or what is frankly bad." -Ernest Hemingway
"It's funny,"" I said. ""It's very funny. And it's a lot of fun, too, to be in love."" ""Do you think so?"" her eyes looked flat again. ""I don't mean fun that way. In a way it's an enjoyable feeling."" ""No,"" she said. ""I think it's hell on earth." -Ernest Hemingway
"When people talk listen completely. Don't be thinking what you're going to say. Most people never listen. Nor do they observe. You should be able to go into a room and when you come out know everything that you saw there and not only that. If that room gave you any feeling you should know exactly what it was that gave you that feeling." -Ernest Hemingway
"I am an old man who will live until I die,"" Anselmo said." -Ernest Hemingway
"Because we would not wear any clothes because it was so hot and the windows open and the swallows flying over the roofs of the houses and when it was dark afterward and you went to the window very small bats hunting over the houses and close down over the trees and we would drink capri and the door locked and it hot and only a sheet and the whole night and we would both love each other all night in the hot night in Milan. That was how it ought to be." -Ernest Hemingway
"I'm trying in all my stories to get the feeling of the actual life across—not to just depict life—or criticize it—but to actually make it alive. So that when you have read something by me you actually experience the thing. You can't do this without putting in the bad and the ugly as well as what is beautiful. Because if it is all beautiful you can't believe in it. Things aren't that way." -Ernest Hemingway
"But after I got them to leave and shut the door and turned off the light it wasn't any good. It was like saying good-by to a statue. After a while I went out and left the hospital and walked back to the hotel in the rain." -Ernest Hemingway
"There is nothing you can do except try to write it the way that it was. So you must write each day better than you possibly can and use the sorrow that you have now to make you know how the early sorrow came. And you must always remember the things you believed because if you know them they will be there in the writing and you won't betray them. The writing is the only progress you make." -Ernest Hemingway
"You're my religion. You're all I've got." -Ernest Hemingway
"Besides, I'm not jealous. I'm just so in love with you that there isn't anything else." -Ernest Hemingway
"I don't know. There isn't always an explanation for everything." -Ernest Hemingway
"Each day of not writing, of comfort, of being that which he despised, dulled his ability and softened his will to work so that, finally, he did no work at all." -Ernest Hemingway
"I've been wondering about Dostoyevsky. How can a man write so badly, so unbelievably badly, and make you feel so deeply?" -Ernest Hemingway
"Everything you have is to give. Thou art a phenomenon of philosophy and an unfortunate man." -Ernest Hemingway
"I kissed her neck and shoulders. I felt faint with loving her so much." -Ernest Hemingway
"The coward dies a thousand deaths, the brave but one?''Of course. Who said it?''I don't know.''He was probably a coward,' she said. ""He knew a great deal about cowards but nothing about the brave. The brave dies perhaps two thousand deaths if he's intelligent. He simply doesn't mention them." -Ernest Hemingway
"I do not need to get used to your silence. I already know it. I quite possibly love all of it." -Ernest Hemingway
"In Dostoevsky there were things unbelievable and not to be believed, but some so true they changed you as you read them; frailty and madness, wickedness and saintliness, and the insanity of gambling were there to know as you knew the landscape and the roads in turgenev" -Ernest Hemingway
"Women made such swell friends. Awfully swell. In the first place, you had to be in love with a woman to have a basis of friendship. I had been having Brett for a friend. I had not been thinking about her side of it. I had been getting something for nothing. That only delayed the presentation of the bill. The bill always came. That was one of the swell things you could count on.I thought I had paid for everything. Not like the woman pays and pays and pays. No idea of retribution or punishment. Just exchange of values. You gave up something and got something else. Or you worked for something. You paid some way for everything that was any good. I paid my way into enough things that I liked, so that I had a good time. Either you paid by learning about them, or by experience, or by taking chances, or by money. Enjoying living was learning to get your money's worth. The world was a good place to buy in. It seemed like a fine philosophy. In five years, I though, it will seem just as silly as all the other fine philosophies I've had." -Ernest Hemingway
"I was blown up while we were eating cheese." -Ernest Hemingway
"Enjoying living was learning to get your money's worth and knowing when you had it." -Ernest Hemingway
"Don't you like to write letters? I do because it's such a swell way to keep from working and yet feel you've done something." -Ernest Hemingway
"I don't like to leave anything,' the man said. 'I don't like to leave things behind." -Ernest Hemingway
"There is nothing to writing.All you do is sit down a a typewriter and bleed.E. HemmingwayWe don't write to be understood, we write to understand.........Love yourself. Dare to dream. Live on purpose!" -Ernest Hemingway
"Never delay kissing a pretty girl or opening a bottle of whiskey." -Ernest Hemingway
"Have faith in the Yankees my son. Think of the great DiMaggio." -Ernest Hemingway
"World War I was the most colossal, murderous, mismanaged butchery that has ever taken place on earth. Any writer who said otherwise lied, So the writers either wrote propaganda, shut up, or fought." -Ernest Hemingway
"I have never seen or heard of such a fish. But I must kill him. I am glad we do not have to try to kill the stars.' Imagine if each day a man must try to kill the moon, he thought. The moon runs away. . . . Then he was sorry for the great fish that had nothing to eat and his determination to kill him never relaxed in his sorrow for him. . . . There is no one worthy of eating him from the manner of his behavior and his great dignity. I do not understand these things, he thought. But it is good that we do not have to try to kill the sun or the moon or the stars. It is enough to live on the sea and kill our true brothers." -Ernest Hemingway
"I know you're right. I'm just low, and when I'm low I talk like a fool." -Ernest Hemingway
"He saw the girl watching him and he smiled at her. It was an old smile that he had been using for fifty years, ever since he first smiled..." -Ernest Hemingway
"Where we would be together and have our books and at night be warm in bed together with the windows open and the stars bright. That was where we could go." -Ernest Hemingway
"Man is not made for defeat." -Ernest Hemingway
"But you knew there would always be the spring, as you knew the river would flow again after it was frozen. When the cold rains kept on and killed the spring, it was as though a young person had died for no reason." -Ernest Hemingway
"By ""guts"" I mean, grace under pressure" -Ernest Hemingway
"All good books are alike in that they are truer than if they really happened and after you are finished reading one you feel that it all happened to you and after which it all belongs to you." -Ernest Hemingway
"She was sitting up now. My arm was around her and she was leaning back against me, and we were quite calm. She was looking into my eyes with that way she had of looking that made you wonder whether she really saw out of her own eyes. They would look on and on after every one else's eyes in the world would have stopped looking. She looked as though there were nothing on earth she would not look at like that, and really she was afraid of so many things," -Ernest Hemingway
"The questioners had that beautiful detachment and devotion to stern justice of men dealing in death without being in any danger of it." -Ernest Hemingway
"Please do it your own way.Do it in the mornings when your mind is coldDo it in the evenings when everything is sold.Do it in the springtime when springtime isn't thereDo it in the winterWe know winter wellDo it on very hot daysTry doing it in hell.Trade bed for a pencilTrade sorrow for a pageNo work it out your own wayHave good luck at your age." -Ernest Hemingway
"If you stop complaining and asking for what you never will get, you will have a good life. A good life is not measured by any biblical span." -Ernest Hemingway
"No good book has ever been written that has in it symbols arrived at beforehand and stuck in. ... I tried to make a real old man, a real boy, a real sea and a real fish and real sharks. But if I made them good and true enough they would mean many things" -Ernest Hemingway
"Everything about him was old except his eyes and they were the same color as the sea and were cheerful and undefeated." -Ernest Hemingway
"He's so damned nice and he's so awful. He's my sort of thing." -Ernest Hemingway
"wonder what day god created the egg' 'how should we know? we should not question. our stay on earth is not for long. let us rejoice and believe and give thanks'. 'eat a egg" -Ernest Hemingway
"I have a rotten habit of picturing the bedroom scenes of my friends." -Ernest Hemingway
"The great thing is to last and get your work done and see and hear and learn and understand; and write when there is something that you know; and not before; and not too damned much after. Let those who want to save the world if you can get to see it clear and as a whole. Then any part you make will represent the whole if it's made truly. The thing to do is work and learn to make it." -Ernest Hemingway
"You're awfully dark, brother,"" he said. ""You don't know how dark." -Ernest Hemingway
"The first panacea for a mismanaged nation is inflation of the currency; the second is war. Both bring a temporary prosperity; both bring a permanent ruin. But both are the refuge of political and economic opportunists." -Ernest Hemingway
"There were many words that you could not stand to hear and finally only the names of places had dignity. Certain numbers were the same way and certain dates and these with the names of the places were all you could say and have them mean anything. Abstract words such as glory, honor, courage, or hallow were obscene beside the concrete names of villages, the numbers of roads, the names of rivers, the numbers of regiments and the dates." -Ernest Hemingway
"The good parts of a book may be only something a writer is lucky enough to overhear or it may be the wreck of his whole damn life and one is as good as the other." -Ernest Hemingway
"She is kind and very beautiful. But she can be so cruel and it comes so suddenly and such birds that fly, dipping and hunting, with their small sad voices are made too delicately for the sea." -Ernest Hemingway
"But we were never lonely and never afraid when we were together. I know that the night is not the same as the day: that all things are different, that the things of the night cannot be explained in the day, because they do not then exist, and the night can be a dreadful time for lonely people once their loneliness has started. But with Catherine there was almost no difference in the night except that it was an even better time. If people bring so much courage to this world the world has to kill them to break them, so of course it kills them. The world breaks every one and afterward many are strong at the broken places. But those that will not break it kills. It kills the very good and the very gentle and the very brave impartially. If you are none of these you can be sure it will kill you too but there will be no special hurry." -Ernest Hemingway
"That in some way he could work the fat off his soul the way a fighter went into the mountains to work and train in order to burn it out of his body" -Ernest Hemingway
"That seemed to handle it. That was it. Send a girl off with one man. Introduce her to another to go off with him. Now go and bring her back. And sign the wire with love. That was it all right. I went in to lunch." -Ernest Hemingway
"Blood is thicker than water,""The young man saidAs he knifed his friendFor a drooling old bitchAnd a house full of lies." -Ernest Hemingway
"Imagination? It is the one thing beside honesty that a good writer must have. The more he learns from experience the more he can imagine." -Ernest Hemingway
"Perhaps wars weren't won anymore. Maybe they went on forever. Maybe it was another Hundred Years' War." -Ernest Hemingway
"You ought to be ironical the minute you get out of bed. You ought to wake up with your mouth full of pity." -Ernest Hemingway
"Home is where the heart is, home is where the fart is.Come let us fart in the home.There is no art in a fart.Still a fart may not be artless.Let us fart and artless fart in the home." -Ernest Hemingway
"You bitch,' he said. 'You rich bitch. That's poetry. I'm full of poetry now. Rot and poetry. Rotten poetry." -Ernest Hemingway
"Abstract words such as glory, honor, courage, or hallow were obscene beside the concrete names of villages, the numbers of roads, the names of rivers, the numbers of regiments and the dates." -Ernest Hemingway
"You felt, in spite of all bureaucracy and inefficiency and party strife something that was like the feeling you expected to have and did not have when you made your first communion. It was a feeling of consecration to a duty toward all of the oppressed of the world which would be as difficult and embarrasing to speak about as religious experience and yet it was as authentic as the feeling you had when you heard Bach, or stood in Chartres Cathedral or the Cathedral at León and saw the light coming through the great windows; or when you saw Mantegna and Greco and Brueghel in the Prado. It gave you a part in something that you could believe in wholly and completely and in which you felt an absolute brotherhood with the others who were engaged in it. It was something that you had never known before but that you had experienced now and you gave such importance to it and the reasons for it that you own death seemed of complete unimportance; only a thing to be avoided because it would interfere with the performance of your duty. But the best thing was that there was something you could do about this feeling and this necessity too. You could fight." -Ernest Hemingway
"But you have no house and no courtyard to your no-house, he thought. You have no family but a brother who goes to battle tomorrow and you own nothing but the wind and the sun and an empty belly. The wind is small, he thought, and there is no sun. You have four grenades in your pocket but they are only good to throw away. You have a carbine on your back but it is only good to give away bullets. You have a message to give away. And you're full of crap that you can give to the earth, he grinned in the dark. You can anoint it also with urine. Everything you have is to give. Thou art a phenomenon of philosophy and an unfortunate man, he told himself and grinned again." -Ernest Hemingway
"Now he was proving it again. Each time was a new time and he never thought about the past when he was doing it." -Ernest Hemingway
"I think perhaps I can too.But I try not to borrow. First you borrow. Then you beg." -Ernest Hemingway
"They were beaten to start with. They were beaten when they took them from their farms and put them in the army. That is why the peasant has wisdom, because he is defeated from the start. Put him in power and see how wise he is." -Ernest Hemingway
"He was too simple to wonder when he had attained humility. But he knew he had attained it and he knew it was not disgraceful and it carried no loss of true pride." -Ernest Hemingway
"Start by writing the truest sentence you know" -Ernest Hemingway
"Work could cure almost anything" -Ernest Hemingway
"He did not say that because he knew that if you said a good thing it might not happen." -Ernest Hemingway
"I would walk along the quais when I had finished work or when I was trying to think something out. It was easier to think if I was walking and doing something or seeing people doing something that they understood." -Ernest Hemingway
"It is never hopeless. But sometimes I cannot hope. I try always to hope but sometimes I cannot." -Ernest Hemingway
"Life had seemed so simple that morning when I had wakened and found the false spring… But Paris was a very old city and we were young and nothing was simple there, not even poverty, nor sudden money, nor the moonlight, nor right and wrong nor the breathing of someone who lay beside you in the moonlight." -Ernest Hemingway
"I belong to this notebook and this pencil." -Ernest Hemingway
"Here's a taxidermist's,"" Bill said. ""Want to buy anything? Nice stuffed dog?"" ""Come on,"" I said. ""You're pie-eyed.""""Pretty nice stuffed dogs,"" Bill said. ""Certainly brighten up your flat.""""Come on."" ""Just one stuffed dog. I can take 'em or leave 'em alone. But listen, Jake. Just one stuffed dog.""""Come on.""""Mean everything in the world to you after you bought it. Simple exchange of values. You give them money. They give you a stuffed dog.""""We'll get one on the way back.""""All right. Have it your own way. Road to hell paved with unbought stuffed dogs. Not my fault." -Ernest Hemingway
"The great thing is to last and get your work done and see and hear and learn and understand; and write when there is something that you know; and not before, and not too damned much after." -Ernest Hemingway
"You're my religion. You're all I've got." -Ernest Hemingway
"For we have thought the longer thoughtsAnd gone the shorter way.And we have danced to devils' tunes, Shivering home to pray;To serve one master in the night,Another in the day." -Ernest Hemingway
"I have watched them all day and they are the same men that we are. I believe that I could walk up to the mill and knock on the door and I would be welcome except that they have orders to challenge all travelers and ask to see their papers. It is only orders that come between us. Those men are not fascists. I call them so, but they are not. They are poor men as we are. They should never be fighting against us and I do not like to think of the killing." -Ernest Hemingway
"Brett was damned good-looking. She wore a slip-over jersey sweater and a tweed skirt, and her hair was brushed back like a boy's. She started all that. She was built with curves like the hull of a racing yacht, and you missed none of it with that wool jersey." -Ernest Hemingway
"Strong in all the Broken Places" -Ernest Hemingway
"Everything that's innocent to us is crazy to them." -Ernest Hemingway
"I never had to choose my subject- my subject rather chose me." -Ernest Hemingway
"Finishing a good book is like leaving a good friend." -Ernest Hemingway
"Grace under pressure." -Ernest Hemingway
"We think. We are not peasants. We are mechanics. But even the peasants know better than to believe in a war. Everybody hates war.There is a class that control a country that is stupid and down not realise anything and never can. That is why we have this war.Also they make money out of it." -Ernest Hemingway
"Do you always get so hungry when you make love?''When you love somebody." -Ernest Hemingway
"Now Catherine would die. That was what you did. You died. You did not know what it was about. You never had time to learn. They threw you in and told you the rules and the first time they caught you off base they killed you. Or they killed you gratuitously like Aymo. Or gave you the syphilis like Rinaldi. But they killed you in the end. You could count on that. Stay around and they would kill you." -Ernest Hemingway
"We all take a beating every day, you know, one way or another." -Ernest Hemingway
"I wanted to try this new drink: That's all we do, isn't it - look at things and try new drinks?" -Ernest Hemingway
"If something is wrong, fix it if you can. But train yourself not to worry. Worry never fixes anything." -Ernest Hemingway
"He had never quarreled much with this woman, while with the women that he loved he had quarreled so much they had finally, always, with the corrosion of the quarreling, killed what they had together. He had loved too much, demanded too much, and he wore it all out." -Ernest Hemingway
"Later he had seen the things that he could never think of and later still he had seen much worse." -Ernest Hemingway
"I am drunk, seest thou? When I am not drunk I do not talk. You have never heard me talk much. But an intelligent man is sometimes forced to be drunk to spend his time with fools." -Ernest Hemingway
"In those days, there was no money to buy books." -Ernest Hemingway
"He did not care for the lying at first. He hated it. Then later he had come to like it. It was part of being an insider but it was a very corrupting business." -Ernest Hemingway
"The clouds were building up now for the trade wind and he looked ahead and saw a flight of wild ducks etching themselves against the sky over the water, then blurring, then etching again and he knew no man was ever alone on the sea." -Ernest Hemingway
"I am so in love with you that there isn't anything else." -Ernest Hemingway
"Fish,"" the old man said. ""Fish, you are going to have to die anyway. Do you have to kill me too?" -Ernest Hemingway
"It is by riding a bicycle that you learn the contours of a country best, since you have to sweat up the hills and coast down them. Thus you remember them as they actually are, while in a motor car only a high hill impresses you, and you have no such accurate remembrance of country you have driven through as you gain by riding a bicycle." -Ernest Hemingway
"Oh, don't go to hell,' I said. 'Stick around. We're just starting lunch." -Ernest Hemingway
"There is no night life in Spain. They stay up late but they get up late. That is not night life. That is delaying the day. Night life is when you get up with a hangover in the morning. Night life is when everybody says what the hell and you do not remember who paid the bill. Night life goes round and round and you look at the wall to make it stop. Night life comes out of a bottle and goes into a jar. If you think how much are the drinks it is not night life." -Ernest Hemingway
"But perhaps he had enough animal strength and detached intelligence that he could make another start." -Ernest Hemingway
"This too to remember. If a man writes clearly enough any one can see if he fakes. If he mystifies to avoid a straight statement, which is very different from breaking so-called rules of syntax or grammar to make an efffect which can be obtained in no other way, the writer takes a longer time to be known as a fake and other writers who are afflicted by the same necessity will praise him in their own defense. True mysticism should not be confused with incompetence in writing which seeks to mystify where there is no mystery but is really only the necessity to fake to cover lack of knowledge or the inability to state clearly. Mysticism implies a mystery and there are many mysteries; but incompetence is not one of them; nor is overwritten journalism made literature by the injection of a false epic qulaity. Remember this too: all bad writers are in love with the epic." -Ernest Hemingway
"And we could have all this,' she said. 'And we could have everything and every day we make it more impossible.''What did you say?''I said we could have everything.''We can have everything.''No, we can't.''We can have the whole world.''No, we can't.''We can go everywhere.''No, we can't. It isn't ours anymore.''It's ours.''No, it isn't. And once they take it away, you never get it back." -Ernest Hemingway
"But are there not many fascists in your country?""""There are many who do not know they are fascists but will find it out when the times comes." -Ernest Hemingway
"Don't let yourself slip and get any perfect characters... keep them people, people, people, and don't let them get to be symbols." -Ernest Hemingway
"Not the why but the what." -Ernest Hemingway
"From things that have happened and from things as they exist and from all things that you know and all those you cannot know, you make something through your invention that is not a representation but a whole new thing truer than anything true and alive, and you make it alive, and if you make it well enough you give it immortality. That is why you write and for no other reason that you know of. But what about all the reasons that no one knows?" -Ernest Hemingway
"Hail nothing full of nothing, nothing is with thee." -Ernest Hemingway
"He told me how he had first met her during the war and then lost her and won her back, and about their marriage and then about something tragic that had happened to them at St-Raphael about a year ago. This first version that he told me of Zelda . and a French naval aviator falling in love was truly a sad story and I believe it was a true story. Later he told me other versions of it as though trying them for use in a novel, but none was as sad as this first one and I always believed the first one, although any of them might have been true. They were better told each time; but they never hurt you the same way the first one did." -Ernest Hemingway
"When she cried her whole face went to pieces." -Ernest Hemingway
"Remember, everything is right until it's wrong. You'll know when it's wrong.' - 'You think so?' - 'I'm quite sure. If you don't it doesn't matter. Nothing will matter then" -Ernest Hemingway
"The mouth worried you until you knew him and then it worried you more." -Ernest Hemingway
"Prose is architecture and the Baroque age is over." -Ernest Hemingway
"Mr. Barnes, it is because I have lived very much that now I can enjoy everything so well" -Ernest Hemingway
"She was crying. I comforted her and she stopped crying. But outside it kept on raining." -Ernest Hemingway
"If you have to go away,' she said,'is it absolutely necessary to kill off everything you leave behind? I mean do you have to take away everything? ..." -Ernest Hemingway
"It is better to be lucky. But I would rather be exact. Then when luck comes you are ready." -Ernest Hemingway
"Part of you died each year when the leaves fell from the trees and their branches were bare against the wind and the cold, wintry light." -Ernest Hemingway
"Thou wilt go now, rabbit. But I go with thee. As long as there is one of us there is both of us." -Ernest Hemingway
"In the late summer of that year we lived in a house in a village that looked across the river and the plain to the mountains. In the bed of the river there were pebbles and boulders, dry and white in the sun, and the water was clear and swiftly moving and blue in the channels. Troops went by the house and down the road and the dust they raised powdered the leaves of the trees. The trunks of the trees too were dusty and the leaves fell early that year and we saw the troops marching along the road and the dust rising and leaves, stirred by the breeze, falling and the soldiers marching and afterward the road bare and white except for the leaves." -Ernest Hemingway
"I had gone to no place where the roads were frozen and hard as iron, where it was clear cold and dry and the snow was dry and powdery and hare-tracks in the snow and the peasants took off their hats and called you Lord and there was good hunting. I had gone to no such place but to the smoke of cafés and nights when the room whirled and you needed to look at the wall to make it stop, nights in bed, drunk, when you knew that that was all there was, and the strange excitement of waking and not knowing who it was with you, and the world all unreal in the dark and so exciting that you must resume again unknowing and not caring in the night, sure that this was all and all and all and not caring. Suddenly to care very much and to sleep to wake with it sometimes morning and all that had been there gone and everything sharp and hard and clear and sometimes a dispute about the cost. Sometimes still pleasant and fond and warm and breakfast and lunch. Sometimes all niceness gone and glad to get out on the street but always another day starting and then another night. I tried to tell about the night and the difference between the night and the day and how the night was better unless the day was very clean and cold and I could not tell it; as I cannot tell it now" -Ernest Hemingway
"It was considered a virtue not to talk unnecessarily at sea..." -Ernest Hemingway
"Be patient, hand,"" he said. ""I do this for you." -Ernest Hemingway
"I loved her and I loved no one else and we had a lovely magic time while we were alone. I worked well and we made great trips, and I thought we were invulnerable again, and it wasn't until we were out of the mountains in late spring, and back in Paris, that the other thing started again." -Ernest Hemingway
"But, thank God, [the fish] are not as intelligent as we who kill them; although they are more noble and more able." -Ernest Hemingway
"Anger was washed away in the river along with any obligation." -Ernest Hemingway
"A girl came in the cafe and sat by herself at a table near the window. She was very pretty with a face fresh as a newly minted coin if they minted coins in smooth flesh with rain-freshened skin, and her hair black as a crow's wing and cut sharply and diagonally across her cheek." -Ernest Hemingway
"You never understand anybody that loves you." -Ernest Hemingway
"Do not worry. You have always written before and you will write now. All you have to do is write one true sentence. Write the truest sentence you know." -Ernest Hemingway
"I wonder if he has any plans or if he is just as desperate as I am?" -Ernest Hemingway
"I have noticed that doctors who fail in the practice of medicine have a tendency to seek one another's company and aid in consultation." -Ernest Hemingway
"Half fish,"" he said. ""Fish that you were. I am sorry that I went too far out. I ruined us both. But we have killed many sharks, you and I, and ruined many others. How many did you ever kill, old fish? You do not have that spear on your head for nothing." -Ernest Hemingway
"That's all we do, isn't it -- look at things and try new drinks?" -Ernest Hemingway
"Where should we go?''I don't care. Anywhere you want. Anywhere we don't know people." -Ernest Hemingway
"We need more true mystery in our lives Hem- he said. The completely unambitious writer and the really good unpublished poem are the things we lack most. There is of course the problem of sustenance" -Ernest Hemingway
"Until you're grown-up they send you to reform school. After you're grown-up they send you to the penitentiary." -Ernest Hemingway
"Now that the bad weather had come, we could leave Paris for a while for a place where this rain would be snow coming down through the pines and covering the road and the high hillsides and at an altitude where we would hear it creak as we walked home at night. Below Les Avants there was a chalet where the pension was wonderful and where we would be together and have our books and at night be warm in bed together with the windows open and the stars bright. That was where we could go." -Ernest Hemingway
"All I wanted to do was get back to Africa. We had not left it, yet, but when I would wake in the night I would lie, listening, homesick for it already. Now, looking out the tunnel of trees over the ravine at the sky with white clouds moving across in the wind, I loved the country so that I was happy as you are after you have been with a woman that you really love, when, empty, you feel it welling up again and there it is and you can never have it all and yet what there is, now, you can have, and you want more and more, to have, and be, and live in, to possess now again for always, for that long sudden-ended always; making time stand still, sometimes so very still that afterwards you wait to hear it move, and it is slow in starting. But you are not alone because if you have every really loved her happy and untragic, she loves you always; no matter whom she loves nor where she goes she loves you more." -Ernest Hemingway
"Cheer up,' I said. 'All countries look just like the moving pictures." -Ernest Hemingway
"He had always known what I did not know and what, when I learned it, I was always able to forget. But I did not know that then, although I learned it later." -Ernest Hemingway
"Organizations for writers palliate the writer's loneliness, but I doubt if they improve his writing.... For he does his work alone and if he is a good enough writer he must face eternity, or the lack of it, each day." -Ernest Hemingway
"It's a bore,"" he said out loud.""What is, my dear?""""Anything you do too bloody long." -Ernest Hemingway
"He could beat anything, he thought, because no thing could hurt him if he did not care." -Ernest Hemingway
"The fun of talk is to explore, but much of it and all that is irresponsible should not be written. Once written you have to stand by it. You may have said it to see whether you believed it or not." -Ernest Hemingway
"Besides, he thought, everything kills everything else in some way. Fishing kills me exactly as it keeps me alive." -Ernest Hemingway
"I suppose she only wanted what she couldn't have. Well, people were that way. To hell with people. The Catholic Church had an awfully good way of handling all that. Good advice, anyways. Not to think about it. Oh, it was swell advice. Try and take it sometime. Try and take it." -Ernest Hemingway
"that every day should be a fiesta seemed to me a marvelous discovery" -Ernest Hemingway
"To have come on all this new world of writing, with time to read in a city like Paris where there was a way of living well and working, no matter how poor you were, was like having a great treasure given to you. You could take your treasure with you when you traveled too, and in the mountains where we lived in Switzerland and Italy, until we found Schruns in the high valley in the Vorarlberg in Austria, there were always the books, so that you lived in the new world you had found, the snow and the forests and the glaciers and their winter problems and your high shelter in the Hotel Taube in the village in the day time, and at night you could live in the other wonderful world the Russian writers were giving you." -Ernest Hemingway
"The old man opened his eyes and for a moment he was coming back from a long way away. Then he smiled." -Ernest Hemingway
"You don't have to destroy me. Do you? I'm only a woman who loves you and wants to do what you want to do. I've been destroyed two or three times already. You wouldn't want to destroy me again, would you?" -Ernest Hemingway
"The writer must write what he has to say, not speak it." -Ernest Hemingway
"I don't know who made the laws; But I know there ain't no law that you got to go hungry." -Ernest Hemingway
"When I had finished the book I knew that no matter what Scott did, nor how he behaved, I must know it was like a sickness and be of any help I could to him and try to be a good friend. He had many good, good friends, more than anyone I knew. But I enlisted as one more, whether I could be of any use to him or not. If he could write a book as fine as The Great Gatsby I was sure that he could write an even better one. I did not know Zelda yet, and so I did not know the terrible odds that were against him. But we were to find them out soon enough." -Ernest Hemingway
"let us sleep,"" he said and he felt the long light body, warm against him, comforting against him, abolishing loneliness against him, magically, by a simple touching of flanks, of shoulders and of feet, making an alliance against death with him." -Ernest Hemingway
"But I think the Great DiMaggio would be proud of me today." -Ernest Hemingway
"I explained, winefully, how we did not do the things we wanted to; we never did such things." -Ernest Hemingway
"We never get anything. We are born with all we have and we never learn. We never get anything new. We all start complete." -Ernest Hemingway
"If I walked down by different streets to the Jardin du Luxembourg in the afternoon I could walk through the gardens and then go to the Musée du Luxembourg where the great paintings were that have now mostly been transferred to the Louvre and the Jeu de Paume. I went there nearly every day for the Cézannes and to see the Manets and the Monets and the other Impressionists that I had first come to know about in the Art Institute at Chicago. I was learning something from the painting of Cézanne that made writing simple true sentences far from enough to make the stories have the dimensions that I was trying to put in them. I was learning very much from him but I was not articulate enough to explain it to anyone. Besides it was a secret. But if the light was gone in the Luxembourg I would walk up through the gardens and stop in at the studio apartment where Gertrude Stein lived at 27 rue de Fleurus." -Ernest Hemingway
"So if your life trades seventy years for seventy hours I have that value now and I am lucky enough to know it. And if there is not any such thing as a long time, nor the rest of your lives, nor from now on, but there is only now, why then now is the thing to praise and I am very happy with it." -Ernest Hemingway
"I was trying to learn to write, commencing with the simplest things, and one of the simplest things of all and the most fundamental is violent death." -Ernest Hemingway
"its pretty to think so" -Ernest Hemingway
"They are strong,' David said. 'But there's a strong wind today and we drink according to the wind." -Ernest Hemingway
"Some websites accepted each quote we create" -Ernest Hemingway
"In truly good writing no matter how many times you read it you do not know how it is done. That is beacause there is a mystery in all great writing and that mystery does not dis-sect out. It continues and it is always valid. Each time you re-read you see or learn something new." -Ernest Hemingway
"This was the greatest gift that he had, the talent that fitted him for war; that ability not to ignore but to despise whatever bad ending there could be. This quality was destroyed by too much responsibility for others or the necessity of undertaking something ill planned or badly conceived. For in such things the bad ending, failure, could not be ignored. It was not simply a possibility of harm to one's self, which  be ignored. He knew he himself was nothing, and he knew death was nothing. He knew that truly, as truly as he knew anything. In the last few days he had learned that he himself, with another person, could be everything. But inside himself he knew that this was the exception. That we have had, he thought. In that I have been most fortunate. That was given to me, perhaps, because I never asked for it. That cannot be taken away nor lost. But that is over and done with now on this morning and what there is to do now is our work." -Ernest Hemingway
"I did not understand them but they did not have any mystery, and when I understood them they meant nothing to me. I was sorry about this but there was nothing I could do about it." -Ernest Hemingway
"I heard them laugh. I turned off the light and tried to go to sleep. It was not necessary to read any more. I could shut my eyes without getting the wheeling sensation. But i could not sleep. There is no reason why because it is dark you should look at things differently from when it is light. The hell there isn't!I figured that all out once, and for six months I never slept with the electric light off. That was another bright idea. To hell with women, anyway. To hell with you, Brett Ashley." -Ernest Hemingway
"Just before it was dark, as they passed a great island of Sargasso weed that heaved and swung in the light sea as though the ocean were making love with something under a yellow blanket, his small line was taken by a dolphin. He saw it first when it jumped in the air, true gold in the last of the sun and bending and flapping wildly in the air." -Ernest Hemingway
"As you get older, it's more difficult to have heroes, but it's just as necessary." -Ernest Hemingway
"Find what gave you emotion; what the action was that gave you excitement. Then write it down making it clear so that the reader can see it too. Prose is architecture, not interior decoration, and the Baroque is over." -Ernest Hemingway
"Today is only one day in all the days that will ever be. But what will happen in all the other days that ever come can depend on what you do today." -Ernest Hemingway
"It's all nonsense. It's only nonsense. I'm not afraid of the rain. I'm not afraid of the rain. Oh, oh, God, I wish I wasn't.' She was crying. I comforted her and she stopped crying. But outside it kept on raining." -Ernest Hemingway
"I'm going to stay with you. If you go to jail, we might as well both go." -Ernest Hemingway
"Some writers are only born to help another writer write one sentence." -Ernest Hemingway
"He thought about alone in Constantinople that time, having quarreled in Paris before he had gone out. He had whored the whole time and then, when that was over, and he had failed to kill his loneliness, but only made it worse, he had written her, the first one, the one who left him, a letter telling her how he had never been able to kill it . . . . How when he thought he saw her outside the Regence one time it made him go all faint and sick inside, and that he would follow a woman that looked like her in some way, along the Boulevard, afraid to see it was not she, afraid to lose the feeling it gave him. How every one he had slept with had only made him miss her more. How what she had done could never matter since he could never cure himself of loving her." -Ernest Hemingway
"I would take anything I love and throw it off the highest cliff you ever saw and not wait to hear it bounce." -Ernest Hemingway
"Bigotry is an odd thing. To be bigoted you have to be absolutely sure you are right and nothing makes that surety and righteousness like continence. Continence is the foe of heresy." -Ernest Hemingway
"And this was the price you paid for sleeping together." -Ernest Hemingway
"I wanted it so much. I don't know why I wanted it so much." -Ernest Hemingway
"Some made the long drop from the apartment or the office window; some took it quietly in two-car garages with the motor running; some used the native tradition of the Colt or Smith and Wesson; those well-constructed implements that end insomnia, terminate remorse, cure cancer, avoid bankruptcy, and blast an exit from intolerable positions by the pressure of a finger; those admirable American instruments so easily carried, so sure of effect, so well designed to end the American dream when it becomes a nightmare, their only drawback the mess they leave for relatives to clean up." -Ernest Hemingway
"I was trying to write then and I found the greatest difficulty, aside from knowing what you really felt, rather that what you were supposed to feel, and had been taught to feel, was to put down what really happened in action; what the actual things which produced the emotion that you experienced..." -Ernest Hemingway
"In a city like Paris where there was a way of living well and working, no matter how poor you were, was like having a great treasure given to you." -Ernest Hemingway
"I know that the night is not the same as the day: that all things are different, that the things of the night cannot be explained in the day, because they do not then exist, and the night can be a dreadful time for lonely people once their loneliness has started." -Ernest Hemingway
"When I am working on a book or a story I write every morning as soon after first light as possible. There is no one to disturb you and it is cool or cold and you come to your work and warm as you write. You read what you have written and, as you always stop when you know what is going to happen next, you go on from there. You write until you come to a place where you still have your juice and know what will happen next and you stop and try to live through until the next day when you hit it again. You have started at six in the morning, say, and may go on until noon or be through before that. When you stop you are as empty, and at the same time never empty but filling, as when you have made love to someone you love. Nothing can hurt you, nothing can happen, nothing means anything until the next day when you do it again. It is the wait until the next day that is hard to get through." -Ernest Hemingway
"If you have a success you have it for the wrong reasons. If you become popular it is always because of the worst aspects of your work." -Ernest Hemingway
"He said we were all cooked but we were all right as long as we did not know it. We were all cooked. The thing was not to recognize it. The last country to realize they were cooked would win the war." -Ernest Hemingway
"There is seven-eights of it under water for every part that shows. Anything you know you can eliminate and it only strengthens your iceberg. It is the part that doesn't show. If a writer omits something because he does not know it then there is a hole in the story.(Interview with , 1958)" -Ernest Hemingway
"Thank you,' the old man said. He was too simple to wonder when he had attained humility. But he knew he had attained it and he knew it was not disgraceful and it carried no loss of true pride." -Ernest Hemingway
"In those days we did not trust anyone who had not been in the war, but we did notcompletely trust anyone." -Ernest Hemingway
"A bottle of wine was good company." -Ernest Hemingway
"He looked across the sea and knew how alone he was now. But he could see the prisms in the deep dark water and the line stretching ahead and the strange undulation of the calm. The clouds were building up now for the trade wind and he looked ahead and saw a flight of wild ducks etching themselves against the sky over the water, then blurring, then etching again and he knew no man was ever alone on the sea." -Ernest Hemingway
"I was a little crazy. But I wasn't crazy in any complicated manner." -Ernest Hemingway
"Now, feel. I am thee and thou art me and all of one is the other. And feel now. Thou hast no heart but mine." -Ernest Hemingway
"You are killing me, fish, the old man thought. But you have a right to. Never have I seen a greater, or more beautiful, or a calmer or more noble thing than you, brother. Come on and kill me. I do not care who kills who." -Ernest Hemingway
"I thought you weren't going to ever talk about it.""""How can I help it?""""You'll lose it if you talk about it.""""I just talk around it. You know I feel rather damned good, Jake.""""You should.""""You know it makes one feel rather good deciding not to be a bitch.""""Yes.""""It's sort of what we have instead of God.""""Some people have God"", I said. ""Quite a lot.""""He never worked very well with me.""""Should we have another Martini?" -Ernest Hemingway
"Mean everything in the world to you after you bought it. Simple exchange of values. You give them money. They give you a stuffed dog...all right. Have it your own way. Road to hell paved with unbought stuffed dogs." -Ernest Hemingway
"Well,' Bill said, 'we might as well have another drink.' 'Damned good idea,' Mike said. 'One never gets anywhere by discussing finances." -Ernest Hemingway
"Everything became quite unreal finally and it seemed as though nothing could have any consequences." -Ernest Hemingway
"Memory is hunger." -Ernest Hemingway
"I never trust frank and simple people whose stories hold together." -Ernest Hemingway
"Love is all the dirty little tricks you taught me that you probably got out of some book." -Ernest Hemingway
"- What happens to people that love each other?- I suppose they have whatever they have, and they are more fortunate than others. Then one of them gets the emptiness forever." -Ernest Hemingway
"Look at the ugliness. Yet one has a feeling within one that blinds a man while he loves you. You, with that feeling, blind him, and blind yourself. Then, one day, for no reason, he sees you as ugly as you really are and he is not blind anymore and then you see yourself as ugly as he sees you and you lose your man and your feeling... After a while, when you are as ugly as I am, as ugly as women can be, then, as I say after a while the feeling, the idiotic feeling that you are beautiful, grows slowly in one again. It grows like a cabbage. And then, when the feeling is grown, another man sees you and thinks you are beautiful and it is all to do over." -Ernest Hemingway
"The war was a long way away. Maybe there wasn't any war. There was no war here. Then I realized it was over for me. But I did not have the feeling that it was really over. I had the feeling of a boy who thinks of what is happening at a certain hour at the schoolhouse from which he has played truant." -Ernest Hemingway
"He was violating the second rule of the two rules for getting on well with people that speak Spanish; give the men tobacco and leave the women alone" -Ernest Hemingway
"I didn't want to kiss you goodbye — that was the trouble — I wanted to kiss you good night — and there's a lot of difference." -Ernest Hemingway
"Good writing is true writing. If a man is making a story up it will be true in proportion to the amount of knowledge of life that he has and how conscientious he is; so that when he makes something up it is as it would truly be." -Ernest Hemingway
"No. The two kinds of fools we have in Russia,"" karkov grinned and began. ""First there is the winter fool. The winter fool comes to the door of your house and he knocks loudly. You go to the door and you see him there and you have never seen him before. He is an impressive sight. He is a very big man and he has on high boots and a fur coat and a fur hat and he is all covered with snow. First he stamps his boots and snow falls from them. Then he takes off his fur coat and shakes it and more snow falls from them, Then he takes off his fur hat and knocks it against the door. More snow falls from his fur hat. Then he stamps his boots again and advances into the room. Then you look at him and you see he is a fool. That is the winter fool.""""Now in the summer you see a fool going down the street and he is waving his arms and jerking his head from side to side and everybody from two hundred yards away can tell he is a fool. that is a summer fool. This economist is a winter fool." -Ernest Hemingway
"I only like two other things; one is bad for my work and the other is over in half an hour or fifteen minutes. Sometimes less. Sometimes a good deal less." -Ernest Hemingway
"I had drunk much wine and afterward coffee and Strega and I explained, winefully, how we did not do the things we wanted to do; we never did such things." -Ernest Hemingway
"This was omitted on my new theory that you could omit anything if you knew that you omitted and the omitted part would strengthen the story and make people feel something more than they understood." -Ernest Hemingway
"In every port in the world, at least two Estonians can be found." -Ernest Hemingway
"He held her close and hard and inside himself he said goodbye and then goodbye and goodbye." -Ernest Hemingway
"Zelda was very beautiful and was tanned a lovely gold colour and her hair was a beautiful dark gold and she was very friendly. Her hawk's eyes were clear and calm. I knew everything was all right and was going to turn out well in the end when she leaned forward and said to me, telling me her great secret, 'Ernest, don't you think Al Jolson is greater than Jesus?'Nobody thought anything of it at the time. It was only Zelda's secret that she shared with me, as a hawk might share something with a man. But hawks do not share. Scott did not write anything any more that was good until after he knew that she was insane." -Ernest Hemingway
"You know you're writing well when you're throwing good stuff into the wastebasket." -Ernest Hemingway
"…Writing is something that you can never do as well as it can be done. It is a perpetual challenge and it is more difficult than anything else that I have ever done—so I do it. And it makes me happy when I do it well." -Ernest Hemingway
"The fiesta was really started. It kept up day and night for seven days. The dancing kept up, the drinking kept up, the noise went on. The things that happened could only have happened during a fiesta. Everything became quite unreal finally and it seemed as though nothing could have any consequences. It seemed out of place to think of consequences during the fiesta. All during the fiesta you had the feeling even when it was quiet, that you had to shout any remark to make it heard. It was the same feeling about any action. It was a fiesta and it went on for seven days." -Ernest Hemingway
"During the night two porpoises came around the boat and he could hear them rolling and blowing. He could tell the difference between the blowing noise the male made and the sighing blow of the female.'They are good,' he said. 'They play and make jokes and love one another. They are our brothers like the flying fish." -Ernest Hemingway
"I know now that there is no one thing is true–it is all true." -Ernest Hemingway
"Blow, blow, ye western wind . . . Christ, that my love were in my arms and I in my bed again. That my love Catherine. That my sweet love Catherine down might rain. Blow her again to me." -Ernest Hemingway
"Please tell me what can I do. There must be something I can do" -Ernest Hemingway
"The fish is my friend too,"" he said aloud. ""I have never seen or heard of such a fish. But I must kill him. I am glad we do not have to try to kill the stars." -Ernest Hemingway
"Clearly I miss Him, having been brought up in religion. But now a man must be responsible to himself." -Ernest Hemingway
"The best sky was in Italy or Spain and in Northern Michigan in the fall" -Ernest Hemingway
"If he lived by a lie he should try to die by it" -Ernest Hemingway
"The old man looked at him with his sun-burned, confident loving eyes." -Ernest Hemingway
"He thought that he would lie down and think about nothing. Sometimes he could do this. Sometimes he could think about the stars without wondering about them and the ocean without problems and the sunrise without what it would bring." -Ernest Hemingway
"I shouldn't have gone out so far, fish,' he said. 'Neither for you nor for me. I'm sorry, fish." -Ernest Hemingway
"I don't know,"" I said. ""There isn't always an explanation for everything.""""Oh, isn't there? I was brought up to think there was.""""That's awfully nice." -Ernest Hemingway
"I knew I did not love Catherine Barkley nor had any idea of loving her. This was a game, like bridge, in which you said things instead of playing cards. Like bridge you had to pretend you were playing for money or playing for some stakes. Nobody had mentioned what the stakes were. It was all right with me." -Ernest Hemingway
"I'm afraid of the rain because sometimes I see me dead in it." -Ernest Hemingway
"There is never any ending to Paris, and the memory of each person who has lived in it differs from that of any other. Paris was always worth it, and you received return for whatever you brought to it…" -Ernest Hemingway
"He knew too what it was to live through a hurricane with the other people of the island and the bond that the hurricane made between all people who had been through it. He also knew that hurricanes could be so bad that nothing could live through them." -Ernest Hemingway
"Something, or something awful or something wonderful was certain to happen on every day in this part of Africa." -Ernest Hemingway
"I wish I did not think about it so much, he thought." -Ernest Hemingway
"We both touched wood on the cafe table and the waiter came to see what it was we wanted. But what we wanted he, nor anyone else, nor knocking on wood or on marble, as this cafe table-top was, could ever bring us. But we did not know it that night and we were very happy." -Ernest Hemingway
"You want everything so much and when you get it it's over and you don't give a damn." -Ernest Hemingway
"You loved him when he was alive and you loved him after. If you love him, it is not a sin to kill him. Or is it more?" -Ernest Hemingway
"Pain does not matter to a man." -Ernest Hemingway
"I obscenity in the milk of my shame." -Ernest Hemingway
"There had been too much emotion, too much damage, too much of everything." -Ernest Hemingway
"Good. I go. And if thou dost not love me, I love thee enough for both." -Ernest Hemingway
"What kind of a hand is that,' he said. 'Cramp then if you want. Make yourself into a claw. It will do you no good." -Ernest Hemingway
"I wished I had died before I loved anyone but her." -Ernest Hemingway
"It is silly not to hope, besides I believe it is a sin."" The Old Man and the Sea" -Ernest Hemingway
"We can't ever go back to old things or try and get the 'old kick' out of something or find things the way we remembered them. We have them as we remember them and they are fine and wonderful and we have to go on and have other things because the old things are nowhere except in our minds now." -Ernest Hemingway
"Out of all the things you could not have there were some that you could have and one of those was to know when you were happy and to enjoy all of it while it was there and it was good." -Ernest Hemingway
"When we came back to Paris it was clear and cold and lovely." -Ernest Hemingway
"We are all broken, that's how the light gets in." -Ernest Hemingway
"The more I'm let alone and not worried the better I can function." -Ernest Hemingway
"Romero never made any contortions, always it was straight and pure and natural in line. The others twisted themselves like cork-screws, their elbows raised, and leaned against the flanks of the bull after his horns had passed, to give a faked look of danger. Afterward, all that was faked turned bad and gave an unpleasant feeling. Romero's bull-fighting gave real emotion, because he kept the absolute purity of line in his movements and always quietly and calmly let the horns pass him close each time. He did not have to emphasize their closeness. Brett saw how something that was beautiful done close to the bull was ridiculous if it were done a little way off. I told her how since the death of Joselito all the bull-fighters had been developing a technic that simulated this appearance of danger in order to give a fake emotional feeling, while the bull-fighter was really safe. Romero had the old thing, the holding of his purity of line through the maximum of exposure, while he dominated the bull by making him realize he was unattainable, while he prepared him for the killing." -Ernest Hemingway
"There are the two curses of Spain, the bulls and the priests." -Ernest Hemingway
"Everything is on such a clear financial basis in France. It is the simplest country to live in. No one makes things complicated by becoming your friend for any obscure reason. If you want people to like you you have only to spend a little money." -Ernest Hemingway
"Пътувай само с човек, когото обичаш." -Ernest Hemingway
"He smelled the odor of the pine boughs under him, the piney smell of the crushed needles and the sharper odor of the resinous sap from the cut limbs. ... This is the smell I love. This and fresh-cut clover, the crushed sage as you ride after cattle, wood-smoke and the burning leaves of autumn. That must be the odor of nostalgia, the smell of the smoke from the piles of raked leaves burning in the streets in the fall in Missoula. Which would you rather smell? Sweet grass the Indians used in their baskets? Smoked leather? The odor of the ground in the spring after rain? The smell of the sea as you walk through the gorse on a headland in Galicia? Or the wind from the land as you come in toward Cuba in the dark? That was the odor of cactus flowers, mimosa and the sea-grape shrubs. Or would you rather smell frying bacon in the morning when you are hungry? Or coffee in the morning? Or a Jonathan apple as you bit into it? Or a cider mill in the grinding, or bread fresh from the oven?" -Ernest Hemingway
"When I saw her I was in love with her. Everything turned over inside of me." -Ernest Hemingway
"The brown blotches of the benevolent skin cancer the sun brings from its reflection on the tropic sea were on his cheeks. The blotches ran well down the sides of his face and his hands had the deep-creased scars from handling heavy fish on the cords. But none of these scars were fresh. They were as old as erosions in a fishless desert." -Ernest Hemingway
"You can either buy clothes or buy pictures,"" she said. ""It's that simple. No one who is not very rich can do both. Pay no attention to your clothes and no attention at all to the mode, and buy your clothes for comfort and durability, and you will have the clothes money to buy pictures." -Ernest Hemingway
"They arrested us after breakfast." -Ernest Hemingway
"I am the master of my fate, I am the captain of my soul." -Ernest Hemingway
"If people bring so much courage to the world the world has to kill them to break them, so of course it kills them" -Ernest Hemingway
"And chase hard and good and with no mistakes and do not overrun them." -Ernest Hemingway
"Even when you have learned not to look at families nor listen to them and have learned not to answer letters, families have many ways of being dangerous." -Ernest Hemingway
"They won't get us,' I said. 'Because you're too brave. Nothing ever happens to the brave.''They die of course.''But only once.''I don't know. Who said that?''The coward dies a thousand deaths, the brave but one?''Of course. Who said it?''I don't know.''He was probably a coward,' she said. 'He knew a great deal about cowards but nothing about the brave. The brave dies perhaps two thousand deaths if he's intelligent. He simply doesn't mention them.''I don't know. It's hard to see inside the head of the brave.''Yes. That's how they keep that way.''You're an authority.''You're right, darling. That was deserved.''You're brave.''No,' she said. 'But I would like to be." -Ernest Hemingway
"I kept this to remind me of you trying to brush away the Villa Rossa from your teeth in the morning, swearing and eating aspirin and cursing harlots. Every time I see that glass I think of you trying to clean your conscience with a toothbrush." -Ernest Hemingway
"There was so much to write. He had seen the world change; not just the events; although he had seen many of them and had watched the people, but he had seen the subtler change and he could remember how the people were at different times. He had been in it and he had watched it and it was his duty to write of it; but now he never would." -Ernest Hemingway
"I am trying to make, before I get through, a picture of the whole world--or as much of it as I have seen. Boiling it down always, rather than spreading it out too thin. (On Writing.)" -Ernest Hemingway
"Scott Fitzgerald was mortally afraid of lightning." -Ernest Hemingway
"Now we have done it. Now we really have done it.'Yes, he thought. Now we have really done it. And when she went to sleep suddenly like a tired young girl and lay beside him lovely in the moonlight that showed the beautiful new strange line of her head as she slept on her side he leaned over and said to her but not aloud, 'I'm with you. No matter what else you have in your head I'm with you and I love you." -Ernest Hemingway
"In the morning I walked down the Boulevard to the rue Soufflot for coffee and brioche. It was a fine morning. The horse-chestnut trees in the Luxembourg gardens were in bloom. There was the pleasant early-morning feeling of a hot day. I read the papers with the coffee and then smoked a cigarette. The flower-women were coming up from the market and arranging their daily stock. Students went by going up to the law school, or down to the Sorbonne. The Boulevard was busy with trams and people going to work." -Ernest Hemingway
"It had been wonderful and they had been truly happy and he had not known that you could love anyone so much that you cared about nothing else and other things seemed inexistent." -Ernest Hemingway
"Age is my alarm clock,' the old man said. 'Why do old men wake so early? Is it to have one longer day?" -Ernest Hemingway
"The writer's job is not to judge, but to seek to understand." -Ernest Hemingway
"There is no language so filthy as Spanish. There are words for all the vile words in English and there are other words and expressions that are used only in countries where blasphemy keeps pace with the austerity of religion." -Ernest Hemingway
"However you make your living is where your talent lies" -Ernest Hemingway
"Did I know him? Did I love him? You ask me that? I knew him like you know nobody in the world, and I loved him like you love God." -Ernest Hemingway
"You talk like a time-table. Did you have any beautiful adventures?" -Ernest Hemingway
"No. Have it here where it is quiet."" ""You and your quiet"", said Brett. ""What is it men feel about quiet?"" ""We like it,"" said the count. Like you like your noise, my dear." -Ernest Hemingway
"You will die like a dog for no good reason." -Ernest Hemingway
"الانسان لم يُخلق للهزيمة .. قد يُدمر الانسان لكنه لا يُهزم" -Ernest Hemingway
"I still need some more healthy rest in order to work at my best. My health is the main capital I have and I want to administer it intelligently." -Ernest Hemingway
"He is a great fish and I must convince him, he thought. I must never let him learn his strength nor what he could do if he made his run." -Ernest Hemingway
"ما أضيق العيش لولا فسحة الأمل" -Ernest Hemingway
"I never used to realize it, I guess. I try and play it along and just not make trouble for people. Probably I never would have had any trouble at all if I hadn't run into Brett when they shipped me to England. I suppose she only wanted what she couldn't have. Well, people were that way. To hell with people. The Catholic Church had an awfully good way of handling all that. Good advice, anyway. Not to think about it. Oh, it was swell advice. Try and take it sometime. Try and take it." -Ernest Hemingway
"Best of all he loved the fall the leaves yellow on the cottonwoods leaves floating on the trout streams and above the hills the high blue windless skies…now he will be a part of them forever." -Ernest Hemingway
"Love is a dunghill, and I'm the cock that gets on it to crow." -Ernest Hemingway
"But I could tell thee of other things, , and do not doubt what thou simply cannot see nor cannot hear. Thou canst not hear what a dog hears. Nor canst thou smell what a dog smells. But already thou hast experienced a little of what can happen to man." -Ernest Hemingway
"I thought she was probably a little crazy. It was all right if she was. I did not care what I was getting into." -Ernest Hemingway
"Don't you believe I love you? Don't know how I can make you believe. I didn't want to kiss you goodbye--that was the trouble--I wanted to kiss you goodnight. […] Of course I love you. I love you all the time. […] I'd like to hold you and kiss you so that you wouldn't doubt whether I wanted to or not." -Ernest Hemingway
"Do you feel better?' he asked.'I feel fine,' she said. 'There's nothing wrong with me. I feel fine." -Ernest Hemingway
"To show his nervousness was not shameful; only to admit it." -Ernest Hemingway
"The two waiters inside the cafe knew that theo ld man was a little drunk, and while he was a good client they knew that if he became too drunk he would leave without paying, so they kept watch on him.Last week he tried to commit suicide,"" one waiter said.Why?""He was in despair.""What about?""Nothing.""How do you know it was nothing.""He has plenty of money." -Ernest Hemingway
"If you brought up Joyce twice, you would not be invited back." -Ernest Hemingway
"Happiness is often presented as being very dull but, he thought, lying awake, that is because dull people are sometimes very happy and intelligent people can go around making themselves and everyone else miserable. He had never found happiness dull. It always seemed more exciting than any other thing and capable of as great intensity as sorrow to those people who were capable of having it. This may not be true but he had believed it to be true for a long time and this summer they had experienced happiness for a month now and, already, in the nights, he was lonely for it before it had ever gone away." -Ernest Hemingway
"A writer's problem does not change. He himself changes and the world he lives in changes but his problem remains the same. It is always how to write truly and having found what is true, to project it in such a way that it becomes part of the experience of the person who reads it." -Ernest Hemingway
"It's funny,' I said. 'It's very funny. And it's a lot of fun, too, to be in love.''Do you think so?' her eyes looked flat again.'I don't mean fun in that way. In a way it's an enjoyable feeling.''No,' she said. 'I think it's hell on earth." -Ernest Hemingway
"It came very fast and the sun went a dull yellow and then everything was gray and the sky was covered and the cloud came on down the mountain and suddenly we were in it and it was snow." -Ernest Hemingway
"Los buenos libros se parecen en que son más ciertos que si hubiesen sucedido de verdad y en que, cuando terminas de leerlos, sientes que todo te sucedió y después, que todo te pertenece: lo bueno y lo malo, el éxtasis, el remordimiento y el dolor, la gente y los lugares y cómo estaba el tiempo." -Ernest Hemingway
"It is the light of course but it is necessary that the place be clean and pleasant. You do not want music. Certainly you do not want music. Nor can you stand before a bar with dignity although that is all that is provided for these hours. What did he fear? It was not fear or dread. It was a nothing that he knew too well. It was all a nothing and a man was nothing too." -Ernest Hemingway
"Spanish girls make wonderful wives. I've never had one so I know." -Ernest Hemingway
"Hail Mary full of Grace the Lord is with thee. Blessed art thou among women and blessed is the fruit of thy womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, Mother of God, pray for us sinners now and at the hour of our death. Amen.' Then he added, 'Blessed Virgin, pray for the death of this fish wonderful though he is." -Ernest Hemingway
"Then he was sorry for the great fish... How many people will he feed?.. But are they worthy to eat him? No, of course, not. There is no one worthy of eating him from the manner of his behavior and his great dignity." -Ernest Hemingway
"I had seen nothing sacred, and the things that were glorious had no glory and the sacrifices were like the stockyards at Chicago if nothing was done with the meat except to bury it. " -Ernest Hemingway
"First you borrow, then you beg." -Ernest Hemingway
"The Lord is my shepherdI shall not want him for longHe maketh me to lie down in green pasturesand there are no green pasturesHe leadeth me beside still watersand still waters run deep" -Ernest Hemingway
"I was trying to write then and I found the greatest difficulty, aside from knowing truly what you really felt, rather than what you were supposed to feel, and had been taught to feel, was to put down what really happened in action; what the actual things were which produced the emotion that you experienced. In writing for a newspaper you told what happened and, with one trick and another, you communicated the emotion aided by the element of timeliness which gives a certain emotion to any account of something that has happened on that day; but the real thing, the sequence of motion and fact which made the emotion and which would be as valid in a year or in ten years or, with luck and if you stated it purely enough, always, was beyond me and I was working very hard to try to get it." -Ernest Hemingway
"But Paris was a very old city and we were young and nothing was simple there." -Ernest Hemingway
"For three years I looked forward very childishly to the war ending at Christmas. But now I look forward till when our son will be a lieutenant commander." -Ernest Hemingway
"For luck you carried a horse chestnut and a rabbit's foot in your right pocket. The fur had been worn off the rabbit's foot long ago and the bones and the sinews were polished by the wear. The claws scratched in the lining of your pocket and you knew your luck was still there." -Ernest Hemingway
"A writer's job is to tell the truth. His standard of fidelity to the truth should be so high that his invention, out of his experience, should produce a truer account than anything factual can be. For facts can be observed badly; but when a good writer is creating something, he has time and scope to make an absolute truth.6" -Ernest Hemingway
"So now do not worry, take what you have, and do your work and you will have a long life and a very merry one." -Ernest Hemingway
"He was completely detached from every thing except the story he was writing and he was living in it as he built it. The difficult parts he had dreaded he now faced one after another and as he did the people, the country, the days and the nights, and the weather were all there as he wrote. He went on working and he felt as tired as if he had spent the night crossing the broken volcanic desert and the sun had caught him and the others with the dry gray lakes still ahead. He could feel the weight of the heavy double-barreled rifle carried over his shoulder, his hand on the muzzle, and he tasted the pebble in his mouth. Across the shimmer of the dry lakes he could see the distant blue of the escarpment. Ahead of him there was no one, and behind was the long line of porters who knew that they had reached this point three hours too late.It was not him, of course, who had stood there that morning, nor had he even worn the patched corduroy jacket faded almost white now, the armpits rotted through by sweat, that he took off then and handed to his Kamba servant and brother who shared with him the guilt and knowledge of the delay, watching him smell the sour, vinegary smell and shake his head in disgust and then grin as he swung the jacket over his black shoulder holding it by the sleeves as they started off across the dry-baked gray, the gun muzzles in their right hands, the barrels balanced on their shoulders, the heavy stocks pointing back toward the line of porters.It was not him, but as he wrote it was and when someone read it, finally, it would be whoever read it and what they found when they should reach the escarpment, if they reached it, and he would make them reach its base by noon of that day; then whoever read it would find what there was there and have it always." -Ernest Hemingway
"I hope I am not for the killing, Anselmo was thinking. I think that after the war there will have to be some great penance done for the killing. If we no longer have religion after the war then I think there must be some form of civic penance organized that all may be cleansed from the killing or else we will never have a true and human basis for living. The killing is necessary, I know, but still the doing of it is very bad for a man and I think that, after all this is over and we have won the war, there must be a penance of some kind for the cleansing of us all." -Ernest Hemingway
"Even if he was ever afraid he knew that he could do it anyway." -Ernest Hemingway
"I always worked until I had something done and I always stopped when I knew what was going to happen next. That way I could be sure of going on the next day. But sometimes when I was starting a new story and I could not get it going, I would sit in front of the fire and squeeze the peel of the little oranges into the edge of the flame and watch the sputter of blue that they made. I would stand and look out over the roofs of paris and think, 'Do not worry. You have always written before and you will write now. All you have to do is write one true sentence. Write the truest sentence that you know.' So finally I would write one true sentence, and then go on from there. It was easy then because there was always one true sentence that I knew or had seen or had heard someone say. If I started to write elaborately, or like someone introducing or presenting something, I found that I could cut that scrollwork or ornament out and throw it away and start with the first true simple declarative sentence I had written. Up in that room I decided that I would write one story about each thing that I knew about. I was trying to do this all the time I was writing, and it was good and severe discipline." -Ernest Hemingway
"The only way to combat the murder that is war is to show the dirty combinations that make it and the criminals and swine that hope for it and the idiotic way they run it when they get it so that an honest man will distrust it as he would distrust a racket and refuse to be enslaved into it." -Ernest Hemingway
"Now, being in Africa, I was hungry for more of it, the changes of the seasons, the rains with no need to travel, the discomforts that you paid to make it real, the names of the trees, of the small animals, and all the birds, to know the language and have time to be in it and to move slowly." -Ernest Hemingway
"I drank a bottle of wine for company. It was a Château Margaux. It was pleasant to be drinking slowly and to be tasting the wine and to be drinking alone. A bottle of wine was good company." -Ernest Hemingway
"He knew everything when he started. The others can't ever learn what he was born with." -Ernest Hemingway
"Be a damn fire eater now. He'd seen it in the war work the same way. More of a change than any loss of virginity. Fear gone like an operation. Something else grew in its place. Main thing a man had. Made him into a man. Women knew it too. No bloody fear." -Ernest Hemingway
"That's my town,' Joaquin said. 'What a fine town, but how the buena gente, the good people of that town, have suffered in this war.' Then, his face grave, 'There they shot my father. My mother. My brother-in-law and now my sister.' 'What barbarians,' Robert Jordan said. How many times had he heard this? How many times had he watched people say it with difficulty? How many times had he seen their eyes fill and their throats harden with the difficulty of saying my father, or my brother, or my mother, or my sister? He could not remember how many times he heard them mention their dead in this way. Nearly always they spoke as this boy did now; suddenly and apropos of the mention of the town and always you said, 'What barbarians." -Ernest Hemingway
"There is a lot of time between now and the fall term. There is a lot of time between now and the day after tomorrow if you want to put it that way ..." -Ernest Hemingway
"You have to make it inside of yourself wherever you are." -Ernest Hemingway
"Everything kills everything else in some way." -Ernest Hemingway
"Wearing down seven number-two pencils is a good day's work." -Ernest Hemingway
"How little we know of what there is to know." -Ernest Hemingway
"You paid some way for everything that was any good. I paid my way into enough things that I liked, so that I had a good time. Either you paid by learning about them, or by experience, or by taking chances, or by money. Enjoying living was learning to get your money's worth. The world was a good place to buy in. It seemed like a fine philosophy. In five years, I though, it will seem just as silly as all the other fine philosophies I've had." -Ernest Hemingway
"What you have with Maria, whether it lasts just through today and a part of tomorrow, or whether it lasts for a long life is the most important thing that can happen to a human being. There will always be people who say it does not exist because they cannot have it. But I tell you it is true and that you have it and that you are lucky even if you die tomorrow." -Ernest Hemingway
"I'm full of poetry now. Rot and poetry. Rotten poetry." -Ernest Hemingway
"No, he thought, when everything you do, you do too long, and do too late, you can't expect to find the people still there. The people all are gone. The party's over and you are with your hostess now.I'm getting as bored with dying as with everything else, he thought." -Ernest Hemingway
"We ate well and cheaply and we drank well and cheaply and we slept well and warm together and loved each other." -Ernest Hemingway
"I like to see you in the morning all new and strange." -Ernest Hemingway
"Don't get discouraged because there's a lot of mechanical work to writing … I rewrote the first part of A Farewell to Arms at least fifty times….The first draft of anything is shit." -Ernest Hemingway
"We're always lucky,"" I said and like a fool I did not knock on wood. There was wood everywhere in that apartment to knock on too." -Ernest Hemingway
"It was like certain dinners I remember from the war. There was much wine, an ignored tension, and a feeling of things coming that you could not prevent happening." -Ernest Hemingway
"You may not believe this. No one believes this, but it is true." -Ernest Hemingway
"You have never heard me talk much. But an intelligent man is sometimes forced to be drunk to spend his time with fools." -Ernest Hemingway
"Heresy is the foe of countenance" -Ernest Hemingway
"None of it was important now. The wind blew it out of his head." -Ernest Hemingway
"So far, about morals, I know only that what is moral is what you feel good after and what is immoral is what you feel bad after and judged by these standards, which I do not defend, the bullfight is very normal to me because I feel very fine while it is going on and have a feeling of life and death and mortality and immortality, and after it is over I feel very sad but also very fine." -Ernest Hemingway
"Practice any faith you wish. Got a ball field up the island where you can practice. I'll give the Deity a fast one high and inside if he crowds the plate." -Ernest Hemingway
"I could not fail myself and die on a fish like this,"" he said. ""Now that I have him coming so beautifully, God help me endure. I'll say a hundred Our Fathers and a hundred Hail Marys. But I cannot say them now.""Consider them said, he thought. I'll say them later." -Ernest Hemingway
"During our last year in the mountains new people came deep into our lives and nothing was ever the same again. The winter of the avalanches was like a happy and innocent winter in childhood compared to the next winter, a nightmare winter disguised as the greatest fun of all, and the murderous summer that was to follow. It was that year that the rich showed up." -Ernest Hemingway
"For one person who likes Spain there are a dozen who prefer books on her." -Ernest Hemingway
"If I do it you won't ever worry?''I won't worry about that because it's perfectly simple.'""Then I'll do it. Because I don't care about me." -Ernest Hemingway
"He lay there and felt something and then her hand holding him and searching lower and he helped with his hands and then lay back in the dark and did not think at all and only felt the weight and the strangeness inside and she said, 'Now you can't tell who is who can you?''No.''You are changing,' she said. 'Oh you are. You are. Yes you are and you're my girl Catherine. Will you change and be my girl and let me take you?''You're Catherine.''No. I'm Peter. You're my wonderful Catherine. You're my beautiful lovely Catherine. You were so good to change. Oh thank you, Catherine, so much. Please understand. Please know and understand. I'm going to make love to you forever." -Ernest Hemingway
"The one who is doing his work and getting satisfaction from it is not the one the poverty is hard on." -Ernest Hemingway
"That I am a foreigner is not my fault. I would rather have been born here." -Ernest Hemingway
"For sale: baby shoes, never used." -Ernest Hemingway
"the world is a fine place, and worth fighting for" -Ernest Hemingway
"Then there was the smell of heather crushed and the roughness of the bent stalks under her head and the sun bright on her closed eyes and all his life he would remember the curve of her throat with her head pushed back into the heather roots and her lips that moved smally and by themselves and the fluttering of the lashes on the eyes tight closed against the sun and against everything, and for her everything was red, orange gold-red from the sun on the closed eyes, and it all was that color, all of it, the filling, the possessing, the having, all of that color, all in a blindness of that color. For him it was a dark passage which led to nowhere, then to nowhere, then again to nowhere, once again to nowhere, always and forever to nowhere, heavy on the elbows in the earth to nowhere, dark, never any end to nowhere, hung on all time always to unknowing nowhere, this time and again for always to nowhere, now not to be borne once again always and to nowhere, now beyond all bearing up, up, up and into nowhere, suddenly, scaldingly, holdingly all nowhere gone and time absolutely still and they were both there, time having stopped and he felt the earth move out and away from under them." -Ernest Hemingway
"You wouldn't believe it. It's like a wonderful nightmare." -Ernest Hemingway
"If people bring so much courage to this world the world has to kill them to break them, so of course it kills them. The world breaks everyone and afterward many are strong at the broken places. But those that will not break it kills. It kills the very good and the very gentle and the very brave impartially. If you are none of these you can be sure it will kill you too but there will be no special hurry." -Ernest Hemingway
"Thou askest me to take things seriously? After what thou didst last night? When thou needest to kill a man and instead did what you did? You were supposed to kill one, not make one! When we have just seen the sky full of airplanes of a quantity to kill us back to our grandfathers and forward to all unborn grandsons including all cats, goats and bedbugs. Airplanes making a noise to curdle the milk in your mother's breasts as they pass over darkening the sky and roaring like lions and you ask me to take things seriously. I take them too seriously already." -Ernest Hemingway
"When it's right you can't remember. Every time you read it again it comes as a great and unbelievable surprise. You can't believe you did it. When it's once right you never can do it again. You only do it once for each thing. And you're only allowed so many in your life." -Ernest Hemingway
"In that way they really were friends, understanding in their basic disagreement, trusting in their complete distrust and enjoying one another's company." -Ernest Hemingway
"He was very fond of flying fish as they were his principal friends on the ocean. He was sorry for the birds, especially the small delicate dark terns that were always flying and looking and almost never finding, and he thought, the birds have a harder life than we do except for the robber birds and the heavy strong ones. Why did they make birds so delicate and fine as those sea swallows when the ocean can be so cruel? She is kind and very beautiful. But she can be so cruel and it comes so suddenly and such birds that fly, dipping and hunting, with their small sad voices are made too delicately for the sea." -Ernest Hemingway
"Every true story ends in death." -Ernest Hemingway
"It was not brilliant bull-fighting. It was only perfect bull-fighting." -Ernest Hemingway
"فقد الأمل خطيئة" -Ernest Hemingway
"Robert Jordan saw them there on the slope, close to him now, and below he saw the road and the bridge and the long lines of vehicles below it. He was completely integrated now and he took a good long look at everything. Then he looked up at the sky. There were big white clouds in it. He touched the palm of his hand against the pine needles where he lay and he touched the bark of the pine trunk that he lay behind... He was waiting until the officer reached the sunlit place where the first trees of the pine forest joined the green slope of the meadow. He could feel his heart beating against the pine needle floor of the forest." -Ernest Hemingway
"The hell with my arm. You lose an arm you lose an arm. There's worse things than lose an arm. You've got two arms and you've got two of something else. And a man's still a man with one arm or with one of those. The hell with it,' he says. . . .after a minute he says, 'I got those other two still." -Ernest Hemingway
"The gypsies believe the bear to be a brother to man because he has the same body beneath his hide, because he drinks beer, because he enjoys music and because he likes to dance." -Ernest Hemingway
"I wish it had been a dream now and that I had never hooked the fish and was alone in bed on the newspapers." -Ernest Hemingway
"I love to write. But it has never gotten any easier to do and you can't expect it to if you keep trying for something better than you can do." -Ernest Hemingway
"Creation's probably overrated. After all, God made the world in only six days and rested on the seventh." -Ernest Hemingway
"In the fall the war was always there, but we did not go to it anymore." -Ernest Hemingway
"When spring came, even the false spring, there were no problems except where to be happiest." -Ernest Hemingway
"write hard & clear about what hurts." -Ernest Hemingway
"When you have a child, the world has a hostage." -Ernest Hemingway
"That was morality ; things that made you disgusted afterwards. No, that must be immorality. That was a large statement. What a lot of bilge I could think up at night. What rot ! I could hear Brett say it. What rot ! When you were with the English you got into the habit of using English expressions in your thinking." -Ernest Hemingway
"How what she had done could never matter since he knew he could not cure himself of loving her" -Ernest Hemingway
"But man is not made for defeat,' he said. 'A man can be destroyed but not defeated." -Ernest Hemingway
"I knelt and started to pray and prayed for everybody I thought of, Brett and Mike and Bill and Robert Cohn and myself, and all the bull-fighters, separately for the ones I liked, and lumping all the rest, then I prayed for myself again, and while I was praying for myself I found I was getting sleepy, so I prayed that the bullfights would be good, and that it would be a fine fiesta, and that we would get some fishing. I wondered if there was anything else I might pray for, and I thought I would like to have some money, so I prayed that I would make a lot of money, and then I started to think how I would make it, and thinking of making money reminded me of the count, and I started wondering about where he was, and regretting I hadn't seen him since that night in Montmartre, and about something funny Brett told me about him, and as all the time I was kneeling with my forehead on the wood in front of me, and was thinking of myself as praying, I was a little ashamed, and regretted that I was such a rotten Catholic, but realized there was nothing I could do about it, at least for a while, and maybe never, but that anyway it was a grand religion, and I only wished I felt religious and maybe I would the next time; and then I was out in the hot sun on the steps of the cathedral, and the forefingers and the thumb of my right hand were still damp, and I felt them dry in the sun. The sunlight was hot and hard, and I crossed over beside some buildings, and walked back along side-streets to the hotel." -Ernest Hemingway
"The sail was patched with flour sacks and, furled, it looked like the flag of permanent defeat." -Ernest Hemingway
"We went down the stairs to the café on the ground floor. I had discovered that was the best way to get rid of friends. Once you had a drink all you had to say was: 'Well, I've got to get back and get off some cables,' and it was done. It is very important to discover graceful exits like that in the newspaper business, where it is such an important part of the ethics that you should never seem to be working." -Ernest Hemingway
"A girl came in the cafe and sat by herself at a table near the window. She was very pretty with a face fresh as a newly minted coin if they minted coins in smooth flesh with rain-freshened skin, and her hair was black as a crow's wing and cut sharply and diagonally across her cheek.I looked at her and she disturbed me and made me very excited. I wished I could put her in the story, or anywhere, but she had placed herself so she could watch the street and the entry and I knew she was waiting for someone. So I went on writing." -Ernest Hemingway
"My wife and I had called on Miss Stein, and she and the friend who lived with her had been very cordial and friendly and we had loved the big studio with the great paintings. I t was like one of the best rooms in the finest museum except there was a big fireplace and it was warm and comfortable and they gave you good things to eat and tea and natural distilled liqueurs made from purple plums, yellow plums or wild raspberries.Miss Stein was very big but not tall and was heavily built like a peasant woman. She had beautiful eyes and a strong German-Jewish face that also could have been Friulano and she reminded me of a northern I talian peasant woman with her clothes, her mobile face and her lovely, thick, alive immigrant hair which she wore put up in the same way she had probably worn it in college. She talked all the time and at first it was about people and places.Her companion had a very pleasant voice, was small, very dark, with her hair cut like Joan of Arc in the Boutet de Monvel illustrations and had a very hooked nose. She was working on a piece of needlepoint when we first met them and she worked on this and saw to the food and drink and talked to my wife. She made one conversation and listened to two and often interrupted the one she was not making. Afterwards she explained to me that she always talked to the wives. The wives, my wife and I felt, were tolerated. But we liked Miss Stein and her friend, although the friend was frightening. The paintings and the cakes and the eau-de-vie were truly wonderful. They seemed to like us too and treated us as though we were very good, well-mannered and promising children and I felt that they forgave us for being in love and being married - time would fix that - and when my wife invited them to tea, they accepted." -Ernest Hemingway
"If a four-letter man marries a five-letter woman, he was thinking, what number of letters would their children be?" -Ernest Hemingway
"My God, what would a man do with a woman like that except worship her?" -Ernest Hemingway
"He wanted to write about country so it would be there like Cezanne had done it in a painting. You have to do it from inside yourself... You could do it if you wanted to fight for it. If you'd lived right with your eyes." -Ernest Hemingway
"It made him feel as a wound does that you think you cannot bear. But you can bear anything, he thought." -Ernest Hemingway
"He had destroyed his talent by not using it, by betrayals of himself and what he believed in, by drinking so much that he blunted the edge of his perceptions, by laziness, by sloth, and by snobbery, by pride and by prejudice, by hook and by crook. What was this? A catalogue of old books? What was his talent anyway? It was a talent all right but instead of using it, he had traded on it. It was never what he had done, but always what he could do." -Ernest Hemingway
"We were no longer, technically, children although in many ways I am quite sure that we were. Childish has become a term of contempt. ""Don't be childish, darling."" ""I hope to Christ I am. Don't be childish yourself."" It is possible to be grateful that no one that you would willingly associate with you say, ""Be mature. Be well-balanced, be well-adjusted."" Africa, being as old as it is, makes all people except the professional invaders and spoilers into children. No one says to anyone in Africa, ""Why don't you grow up?"" . . . Men know that they are children in relation to the country and, as in armies, seniority and senility ride close together. But to have the heart of a child is not a disgrace. It is an honor. A man must comport himself as a man. . . . But it is never a reproach that he has kept a child's heart, a child's honesty and a child's freshness and nobility." -Ernest Hemingway
"He had only one thing to do and that was what he should think about and he must think it out clearly and take everything as it came along, and not worry. To worry was a bad as to be afraid. It simply made things more difficult." -Ernest Hemingway
"my family's going to eat as long as anybody eats. What they're trying to do is starve you Conchs out of here so they can burn down the shacks and put up apartments and make this a tourist town. That's what I hear. I hear they're buying up lots, and then after the poor people are starved out and gone somewhere else to starve some more they're going to come in and make it into a beauty spot for tourists." -Ernest Hemingway
"The best way is always to stop when you are going good and when you know what will happen next. If you do that every day when you are writing a novel you will never be stuck. That is the most valuable thing I can tell you so try to remember it." -Ernest Hemingway
"The dead do not need to rise. They are a part of the earth now and the earth can never be conquered. For the earth endureth forever. It will outlive all systems of tyranny. Those who have entered it honorably, and no men ever entered earth more honorably than those who died in Spain, already have achieved immortality." -Ernest Hemingway
"The story was writing itself and I was having a hard time keeping up with it." -Ernest Hemingway
"He missed the prayers but he thought it would be unfair and hypocritical to say them and he did not wish to ask any favors or for any different treatment than all the men were receiving." -Ernest Hemingway
"Who do you suppose has it easier? Ones with religion or just taking it straight? It comforts them very much but we know there is no thing to fear. It is only missing it that's bad. Dying is only bad when it takes a long time and hurts so much that it humiliates you." -Ernest Hemingway
"They are not sorrows, so much as terrible things." -Ernest Hemingway
"I had gone...to the smoke of cafes and nights when the room whirled and you needed to look at the wall to make it stop, nights in bed, drunk, when you knew that that was all there was, and the strange excitement of waking and not knowing who it was with you, and the world all unreal in the dark and so exciting that you must resume again unknowing and not caring in the night, sure that this was all and all and all and not caring. Suddenly to care very much and to sleep to wake with it sometimes morning and all that had been there gone and everything sharp and hard and clear and sometimes a dispute about the cost. Sometimes still pleasant and fond and warm and breakfast and lunch. Sometimes all niceness gone and glad to get out on the street but always another day starting and then another night. I tried to tell about the night and the difference between the night and the day and how the night was better unless the day was very clean and cold and I could not tell it; as I cannot tell it now. But if you have had it you know." -Ernest Hemingway
"He was going to sleep a little while. He lay still and death was not there. It must have gone around another street. It went in pairs, on bicycles, and moved absolutely silently on the pavements." -Ernest Hemingway
"We have to get used to the idea that at the most important crossroads in our life there are no signs." -Ernest Hemingway
"I regarded home as a place I left behind in order to come back to it afterward." -Ernest Hemingway
"I dried my hands and took out my pocket-book from the inside of my tunic hanging on the wall. Rinaldi took the note, folded it without rising from the bed and slid it in his breeches pocket. He smiled, ""I must make on Miss Barkley the impression of a man of sufficient wealth. You are my great and good friend and financial protector."" ""Go to hell,"" I said." -Ernest Hemingway
"You did not have to like it because you understood it. He could beat anything, he thought, because no thing could hurt him if he did not care" -Ernest Hemingway
"There was a trout." -Ernest Hemingway
"You can't get away from yourself by moving from one place to another." -Ernest Hemingway
"I sometimes think my style is suggestive rather than direct. The reader must often use his imagination or lose the most subtle part of my thought." -Ernest Hemingway
"I told the boy I was a strange old man,' he said. 'Now is when I must prove it.' The thousand times that he had proved it meant nothing. Now he was proving it again." -Ernest Hemingway
"You're going to have things to repent, boy,' Mr. John had told Nick. 'That's one of the best things there is. You can always decide whether to repent them or not. But the thing is to have them." -Ernest Hemingway
"He was not in love yet, but he realized that he was an attractive quantity to women, and that the fact of a woman caring for him and wanting to live with him was not simply a divine miracle." -Ernest Hemingway
"I don't have to be proud of it. I only have to do it well."" – Thomas Hudson" -Ernest Hemingway
"Don't bother with churches, government buildings or city squares, if you want to know about a culture, spend a night in its bars" -Ernest Hemingway
"I love thee as I love all that we have fought for. I love thee as I love liberty and dignity and the rights of all men to work and not be hungry. I love thee as I love Madrid that we have defended and as I love all my comrades that have died. And many have died. Many. Many. Thou canst not think how many. But I love thee as I love what I love most in the world and Ilove thee more." -Ernest Hemingway
"You did not have to like it because you understood it." -Ernest Hemingway
"Non sopporto il pensiero che la mia vita stia scorrendo via così in fretta e che io in realtà non la viva." -Ernest Hemingway
"Do you suppose it will always go on?""""No.""""What's to stop it?""It will crack somewhere." -Ernest Hemingway
"It would be better alone, anything is better alone but I don't think I can handle it alone." -Ernest Hemingway
"Nessun uomo è un'isola, completo in se stesso; ogni uomo è un pezzo del continente, una parte del tutto. Se anche solo una nuvola venisse lavata via dal mare, l'Europa ne sarebbe diminuita, come se le mancasse un promontorio, come se venisse a mancare una dimora di amici tuoi, o la tua stessa casa. La morte di qualsiasi uomo mi sminuisce, perché io sono parte dell'umanità. E dunque non chiedere mai per chi suona la campana: suona per te." -Ernest Hemingway
"if I had waited long enough I probably never would have written anything at all since there is a tendency when you really begin to learn something about a thing not to want to write about it but rather to keep on learning about it always and at no time, unless you are very egotistical, which, of course, accounts for many books, will you be able to say: now I know all about this and will write about it." -Ernest Hemingway
"He felt as though he were hailing a ship." -Ernest Hemingway
"What did he fear? It was not fear or dread. It was a nothing that he knew too well. It was all a nothing and a man was nothing too." -Ernest Hemingway
"After a while, when you are as ugly as I am, as ugly as women can be, then, as I say, after a while the feeling, the idiotic feeling that you are beautiful, grows slowly in one again. It grows like a cabbage. And then, when the feeling is grown, another man sees you and thinks you are beautiful and it is all to do over. Now I think I am past it, but it still might come. You are lucky, 'guapa', that you are not ugly" -Ernest Hemingway
"Good. Coffee is good for you. It's the caffeine in it. Caffeine, we are here. Caffeine puts a man on her horse and a woman in his grave." -Ernest Hemingway
"He was not sure that there were any great moments. Things were not the same and now life only came in flashes. He had flashes of the old greatness with his bulls, but they were not of value because he had discounted them in advance when he had picked the bulls out for their safety, getting out of a motor and leaning on a fence, looking over at the herd on the ranch of his friend the bull-breeder. So he had two small, manageable bulls without much horns, and when he felt the greatness again coming, just a little of it through the pain that was always with him, it had been discounted and sold in advance, and it did not give him a good feeling. It was the greatness, but it did not make bull-fighting wonderful to him any more." -Ernest Hemingway
"everything kills everything else in some way. Fishing kills me exactly as it keeps me alive. The boy keeps me alive, he thought. I must not deceive myself too much." -Ernest Hemingway
"To understand is to forgive." -Ernest Hemingway
"it wasn't by accident that the Gettysburg address was so short." -Ernest Hemingway
"the world breaks everyone, and afterward, some are strong at the broken places" -Ernest Hemingway
"Coward,' Pablo said bitterly. 'You treat a man as coward because he has a tactical sense. Because he can see the results of an idiocy in advance. It is not cowardly to know what is foolish.' 'Neither is it foolish to know what is cowardly,' said Anselmo, unable to resist making the phrase." -Ernest Hemingway
"It is the fault of the orders, which are too rigid. There is no allowance for a change in circumstance." -Ernest Hemingway
"The old man's head was clear and good now and he was full of resolution but he had little hope. It was too good to last, he thought. He took one look at the great fish as he watched the shark close in." -Ernest Hemingway
"Now standing in one corner of a boxing ring with a .22 caliber Colt automatic pistol, shooting a bullet weighing only 40 grains and with a striking energy of 51 foot pounds at 25 feet from the muzzle, I will guarantee to kill either Gene Tunney or Joe Louis before they get to me from the opposite corner. This is the smallest caliber pistol cartridge made; but it is also one of the most accurate and easy to hit with, since the pistol has no recoil. I have killed many horses with it, cripples and bear baits, with a single shot, and what will kill a horse will kill a man. I have hit six dueling silhouettes in the head with it at regulation distance in five seconds. It was this type of pistol that Millen boys' colleague, Abe Faber, did all his killings with. Yet this same pistol bullet fired at point blank range will not dent a grizzly's skull, and to shoot a grizzly with a .22 caliber pistol would simply be one way of committing suicide" -Ernest Hemingway
"I even read aloud the part of the novel I had rewritten, which is about as low as a writer can get and much more dangerous for him than glacier skiing unroped before the full winter snowfall has set over the crevices.When they said, 'It's great, Ernest. Truly, it's great. You cannot know the thing it has,"" I wagged my tail in pleasure and plunged into the fiesta concept of life to see if I could not bring some attractive stick back, instead of thinking, 'If these bastards like it what is wrong with it?' That was what I would think if I had been functioning as a professional although, if I had been functioning as a professional, I would never have read it to them." -Ernest Hemingway
"The world breaks everyone and afterward many are strong at the broken places. But those that will not break it kills. It kills the very good and the very gentle and the very brave impartially." -Ernest Hemingway
"The only thing that could spoil a day was people. People were always the limiters of happiness except for the very few that were as good as spring itself." -Ernest Hemingway
"I do not understand these things, he thought. But it is good that we do not have to try to kill the sun or the moon or the stars. It is enough to live on the sea and kill our true brothers." -Ernest Hemingway
"Easy reading is hard writing," -Ernest Hemingway
"People who interfered in your life always did it for your own good and I figured it out finally that what they wanted was for you to conform completely and never differ from some accepted surface standard and then dissipate the way traveling salesmen would at a convention in every stupid and boring way there was. They knew nothing of our pleasures nor how much fun it was to be damned to ourselves and never would know nor could know. Our pleasures, which were those of being in love, were as simple and still as mysterious and complicated as a simple mathematical formula that can mean all happiness or can mean the end of the world. That is the sort of happiness you should not tinker with but nearly everyone you knew tried to adjust." -Ernest Hemingway
"She smiled and her face was heartbreaking." -Ernest Hemingway
"I wonder why he jumped, the old man thought. He jumped almost as though to show me how big he was. I know now, anyway, he thought. I wish I could show him what sort of man I am. But then he would see the cramped hand. Let him think I am more man than I am and I will be so. I wish I was the fish, he thought, with everything he has against only my will and my intelligence." -Ernest Hemingway
"If you have plenty of money, want not to see but to have seen a bullfight and plan no matter whether you like it or not to leave after the first bull, buy a barrera seat so that someone who has never had enough money to sit in a barrera can make a quick rush from above and occupy your expensive seat as you go out taking your pre-conceived opinions with you." -Ernest Hemingway
"All supposed exterior signs of danger that a bull gives, such as pawing the ground, threatening with his horns, or bellowing are forms of bluffing. They are warnings given in order that combat may be avoided if possible. The truly brave bull gives no warning before he charges except the fixing of his eye on the enemy, the raising of the crest of muscle in his neck, the twitching of an ear, and, as he charges, the lifting of his tail." -Ernest Hemingway
"He had been contemptuous of those who wrecked. You did not have to like it because you understood it. He could beat anything, he thought, because no thing could hurt him if he did not care.All right. Now he would not care for death. One thing he had always dreaded was the pain. He could stand pain as well as any man, until it went on too long, and wore him out, but here he had something that had hurt frightfully and just when he had felt it breaking him, the pain had stopped." -Ernest Hemingway
"The blue-backed notebooks, the two pencils and the pencil sharpener (a pocket knife was too wasteful) the marble-topped tables, the smell of early morning, sweeping out and mopping, and luck were all you needed. For luck you carried a horse chestnut and a rabbit's foot in your right pocket. The fur had been worn off the rabbit's foot long ago and the bones and the sinews were polished by wear. The claws scratched in the lining of your pocket and you knew your luck was still there." -Ernest Hemingway
"He said nothing." -Ernest Hemingway
"إذا واتاك الحظ بما فيه الكفاية لتعيش في باريس وأنت شاب, فإن ذكراها ستبقى معك أينما ذهبت طوال حياتك, لأن باريس وليمة متنقلة""." -Ernest Hemingway
"A valuable thing too is never to let anyone know how fine you thought anyone else ever was because they know better and no one was ever that splendid." -Ernest Hemingway
"It was dark now as it becomes dark quickly after the sun sets in September. He lay against the worn wood of the bow and rested all that he could. The first stars were out. He did not know the name of Rigel but he saw it and knew soon they would all be out and he would have all his distant friends.'The fish is my friend too,' he said aloud. 'I have never seen or heard of such a fish. But I must kill him. I am glad we do not have to try to kill the stars." -Ernest Hemingway
"The whole thing seemed to run better while I was away." -Ernest Hemingway
"Then he began to pity the great fish that he had hooked. He is wonderful and strange and who knows how old he is, he thought. Never have I had such a strong fish nor one who acted so strangely. Perhaps he is too wise to jump. He could ruin me by jumping or by a wild rush. But perhaps he has been hooked many times before and he knows that this is how he should make his fight. He cannot know it is only one man against him, nor that it is an old man. But what a great fish he is and what will he bring in the market if the flesh is good. He took the bait like a male and he pulls like a male and his fight has no panic in it. I wonder if he has plans or if he is just as desperate as I am?" -Ernest Hemingway
"It was not so much that he lied as that there was no truth to tell. He had had his life and it was over and then he went on living it again with different people and more money, with the best of the same places, and some new ones." -Ernest Hemingway
"Viva my husband who was Mayor of this town" -Ernest Hemingway
"I learned to understand Cézanne much better and to see truly how he made landscapes when I was hungry. I used to wonder if he were hungry too when he painted; but I thought possibly it was only that he had forgotten to eat. It was one of those unsound but illuminating thoughts you have when you have been sleepless or hungry. Later I thought Cézanne was probably hungry in a different way." -Ernest Hemingway
"[Imagination] is the one thing beside honesty that a good writer must have. The more he learns from experience the more he can imagine. If he gets so he can imagine truly enough people will think that the things he relates all really happened and that he is just reporting." -Ernest Hemingway
"What are you doing now, you lazy drunken obscene unsayable son of an unnameable unmarried gipsy obscenity? What are you doing?" -Ernest Hemingway
"This book contains material from the remises of my memory and of my heart. Even if the one has been tampered with and the other does not exist." -Ernest Hemingway
"I'm not going to get into the ring with Tolstoy." -Ernest Hemingway
"It is the considered belief of the writer of this book that wars are fought by the finest people that there are, or just say people, although, the closer you are to where they are fighting, the finer people you meet; but they are made, provoked and initiated by straight economic rivalries and by swine that stand to profit from them. I believe that all the people who stand to profit by a war and who help provoke it should be shot on the first day it starts by accredited representatives of the loyal citizens of their country who will fight it. The author of this book would be very glad to take charge of this shooting." -Ernest Hemingway
"It was a wonderful meal at Michaud's after we got in; but when we had finished and there was no question of hunger any more the feeling that had been like hunger when we were on the bridge was still there when we caught the bus home. It was there when we came in the room and after we had gone to bed and made love in the dark, it was there. When I woke with the windows open and the moonlight on the roofs of the tall houses, it was there. I put my face away from the moonlight into the shadow but I could not sleep and lay awake thinking about it. We had both wakened twice in the night and my wife slept sweetly now with the moonlight on her face. I had to try to think it out and I was too stupid. Life had seemed so simple that morning when I had waked and found the false spring and heard the pipes of the man with the herd of goats and gone out bought the racing paper.But Paris was a very old city and we were young and nothing was simple there, not even poverty, nor sudden money, nor the moonlight, nor right and wrong nor the breathing of someone who lay beside you in the moonlight." -Ernest Hemingway
"Then I started to think in Lipp's about when I had first been able to write a story about losing everything. It was up in Cortina d'Ampezzo when I had come back to join Hadley there after the spring skiing which I had to interrupt to go on assignment to Rhineland and the Ruhr. It was a very simple story called ‘Out of Season' and I had omitted the real end of it which was that the old man hanged himself. This was omitted on my new theory that you could omit anything if you knew that you omitted and the omitted part would strengthen the story and make people feel something more than they understood." -Ernest Hemingway
"Stop chasing the wrong one. The right one won't run." -Ernest Hemingway
"And we'll never love anyone else but each other." -Ernest Hemingway
"I would not wish to bring either a son or a daughter into this world as this world is. And also you take all the love I have to give" -Ernest Hemingway
"Why do they have to be such damned fanatics? We chased good and we will always fight. But I hope we are not fanatics." -Ernest Hemingway
"Half a million dead wopsAnd he got a kick out of itThe son of a bitch." -Ernest Hemingway
"The only thing that could spoil a day was people and if you could keep from making engagements, each day had no limits. People were always the limiters of happiness except for the very few that were as good as spring itself." -Ernest Hemingway
"How would that premise stand up if he examined it? That was probably why the Communists were always cracking down on Bohemiansism. When you were drunk or when you committed adultery you recognised your own personal fallability of that so mutable substitute for the apostles' creed, the party line. Down with Bohemianism, the sin of Majakowski." -Ernest Hemingway
"You paid some way for everything that was any good. I paid my way into enough things that I liked, so that I had a good time. Either you paid by learning about them, or by experience, or by taking chances, or by money." -Ernest Hemingway
"What a writer has to do is write what hasn't been written before or beat dead men at what they have done." -Ernest Hemingway
"I'm fonder of you than anybody on earth. I couldn't tell you that in New York. It'd mean I was a faggot. That was what the Civil War was about. Abraham Lincoln was a faggot. He was in love with General Grant. So was Jefferson Davis. Lincoln just freed the slaves on a bet." -Ernest Hemingway
"We are stronger in our broken places." -Ernest Hemingway
"I was born ugly. All my life I have been ugly. You, 'Inglés', who know nothing about women. Do you know how an ugly woman feels? Do you know what it is to be ugly all your life and inside to feel that you are beautiful?I would have made a good man, but I am all woman and all ugly. Yet many men have loved me and I have loved many men. It is curious. Listen, 'Inglés', this is interesting. Look at me, as ugly as I am. Look closely, Thou art not ugly.""""Qué no?' Don't lie to me. Or,"" she laughed the deep laugh. ""Has it begun to work with thee? No. That is a joke. No. Look at the ugliness. Yet one has a feeling within one that blinds a man while he loves you. You, with that feeling, blind him, and blind yourself. Then one day, for no reason, he sees you ugly as you really are and he is not blind any more and then you see yourself as ugly as he sees you and you lose your man and your feeling. Do you understand, guapa?" -Ernest Hemingway
"Then he began to pity the great fish that he had hooked. He is wonderful and strange and who knows how old he is, he thought." -Ernest Hemingway
"What do you want? Everything. I want everything and I will take whatever I get." -Ernest Hemingway
"After a while I went out and left the hospital and walked back to the hotel in the rain." -Ernest Hemingway
"El hombre que ha empezado a vivir seriamente por dentro, empieza a vivir más sencillamente por fuera" -Ernest Hemingway
"When people talk listen completely. Don't be thinking what you're going to say. Most people never listen." -Ernest Hemingway
"Maera lay still, his head on his arms, his face in the sand. He felt warm and sticky from the bleeding. Each time he felt the horn coming. Sometimes the bull only bumped him with his head. Once the horn went all the way through him and he felt it go into the sand. Some one had the bull by the tail. They were swearing at him and flopping the cape in his face. Then the bull was gone. Some men picked Maera up and started to run with him toward the barriers through the gate out the passageway around under the grandstand to the infirmary. They laid Maera down on the cot and one of the men went out for the doctor. The others stood around. The doctor came running from the coral where he had been sewing up picador horses. He had to stop and wash his hands. There was a great shouting going on in the grandstand overhead. Maera felt everything getting larger and larger and then smaller and smaller. Then it got larger and larger and larger and then smaller and smaller. Then everything commenced to run faster and faster as when they speed up a cinematograph film. Then he was dead." -Ernest Hemingway
"The old man knew he was going far out and he left the smell of the land behind and rowed out into the clean early morning smell of the ocean." -Ernest Hemingway
"We slept when we were tired and if we woke the other one woke too so one was not alone. Often a man wishes to be alone and a girl wishes to be alone too and if they love each other they are jealous of that in each other, but I can truly say we never felt that. We could feel alone when we were together, alone against the others ... But we were never lonely and never afraid when we were together." -Ernest Hemingway
"Tell him I think writing is lousy,"" Bill said. ""Go on, tell him. Tell him I'm ashamed of being a writer." -Ernest Hemingway
"This was Brett, that I had felt like crying about. Then I thought of her walking up the street and stepping into the car, as I had last seen her, and of course in a little while I felt like hell again. It is awfully easy to be hard-boiled about everything in the daytime, but at night it is another thing." -Ernest Hemingway
"Then too you are in love. Do not forget that is a religious feeling." -Ernest Hemingway
"I suppose she only wanted what she couldn't have. Well, people were that way. To hell with people. The Catholic church had an awfully good way of handling all that. Good advice, anyway. Not to think about it. Oh, it was swell advice. Try and take it some time. Try and take it." -Ernest Hemingway
"Woman are a nuisance on Safari." -Ernest Hemingway
"She was looking into my eyes with that way she had of looking that made you wonder whether she really saw out of her own eyes. They would look on and on after everyone else's eyes in the world would have stopped looking. She looked as though there were nothing on earth she would not look at like that, and really she was afraid of so many things." -Ernest Hemingway
"I had never known any man to die while speaking in terza-rima" -Ernest Hemingway
"He smiled as only the truly shy can smile. It was not the easy grin of the confident, nor the quick slashing smile of the extremely durable and the wicked. It had no relation with the poised, intently used smile of the courtesan or the politician. It was the strange, rare smile which rises from the deep, dark pit, deeper than a well, deep as a mine, that is within them." -Ernest Hemingway
"Yo no quería darte un beso de despedida ese era el problema . Quería darte un beso de buenas noches. Hay una gran diferencia" -Ernest Hemingway
"You had to have these peasant leaders quickly in this sort of war and a real peasant leader might be a little too much like Pablo. You couldn't wait for the real Peasant Leader to arrive and he might have too many peasant characteristics when he did. So you had to manifacture one. At that, from what he had seen of Campesino, with his black beard, his thick negroid lips, and his feverish, staring eyes, he thought he might give almost as much trouble as a real peasant leader. The last time he had seen him he seemed to have gotten to believe his own publicity and think he was a peasant." -Ernest Hemingway
"I want to pull my hair back tight and smooth and make a big knot at the back that I can feel, she said. I want to have a kitty to sit on my lap and purr when I stroke her." -Ernest Hemingway
"And Barcelona. You should see Barcelona.' 'How is it?' 'It is all still comic opera. First it was the paradise of the crackpots and the romantic revolutionists. Now it is the paradise of the fake soldier. The soldiers who like to wear uniforms, who like to strut and swagger and wear red-and-black scarves. Who like everything about war except to fight. Valencia makes you sick and Barcelona makes you laugh." -Ernest Hemingway
"There was no wind, and, outside now of the warm air of the cave, heavy with smoke of both tobacco and charcoal, with the odor of cooked rice and meat, saffron, pimentos, and oil, the tarry, wine-spilled smell of the big skin hung beside the door, hung by the neck and all the four legs extended, wine drawn from a plug fitted in one leg, wine that spilled a little onto the earth of the floor, settling the dust smell; out now from the odors of different herbs whose names he did not know that hung in bunches from the ceiling, with long ropes of garlic, away now from the copper-penny, red wine and garlic, horse sweat and man sweat died in the clothing (acrid and gray the man sweat, sweet and sickly the dried brushed-off lather of horse sweat, of the men at the table, Robert Jordan breathed deeply of the clear night air of the mountains that smelled of the pines and of the dew on the grass in the meadow by the stream." -Ernest Hemingway
"For this, that now was coming, he had very little curiosity. For years it had obseessed him; but now it meant nothing in itself. It was strange how easy being tired enough made it.Now he would never write the things he had saved to write, until he knew enough to write them well" -Ernest Hemingway
"If the wind rises it can push us against the flood when it comes." -Ernest Hemingway
"Let us not doubt, brother. Let us not pry into the holy mysteries of the hen-coop with simian fingers." -Ernest Hemingway
"He started to talk about my writing and I stopped listening. I was embarrassed and it made me feel sick for people to talk about my writing to my face, and I looked at him and his marked-for-death look and I thought, you con man conning me with your con. I've seen a battalion in the dust on the road, a third of them for death or worse and no special marks on them, the dust was for all, and you and your marked for death look, you con man, making a living out of your death. Now you will con me. Con not, that thou be not conned. Death was not conning with him. It was coming all right." -Ernest Hemingway
"Lie life through its fullest" -Ernest Hemingway
"The first panacea for a mismanaged nation is inflation of the currency; the second is war. Both bring a temporary prosperity; both bring a permanent ruin. But both are the refuge of political and economic opportunists.Ernest Hemingway	War, Political, BothNever think that war, no matter how necessary, nor how justified, is not a crime.Ernest Hemingway	War, Justified, MatterOnce we have a war there is only one thing to do. It must be won. For defeat brings worse things than any that can ever happen in war.Ernest Hemingway	War, Once, HappenThe world is a fine place and worth the fighting for and I hate very much to leave it.Ernest Hemingway	Hate, Leave, WorthPersonal columnists are jackals and no jackal has been known to live on grass once he had learned about meat - no matter who killed the meat for him.Ernest Hemingway	Once, Matter, LearnedThe only thing that could spoil a day was people. People were always the limiters of happiness except for the very few that were as good as spring itself.Ernest Hemingway	Happiness, Good, FewBut man is not made for defeat. A man can be destroyed but not defeated.Ernest Hemingway	Defeat, Defeated, DestroyedYou're beautiful, like a May fly.Ernest Hemingway	Beauty, Beautiful, FlyHis talent was as natural as the pattern that was made by the dust on a butterfly's wings. At one time he understood it no more than the butterfly did and he did not know when it was brushed or marred.Ernest Hemingway	Time, Natural, TalentThe good parts of a book may be only something a writer is lucky enough to overhear or it may be the wreck of his whole damn life and one is as good as the other." -Ernest Hemingway
"The Age DemandThe age demanded that we singAnd cut away our tongue.The age demanded that we flowAnd hammered in the bung.The age demanded that we danceAnd jammed us into iron pants.And in the end the age was handedThe sort of shit that it demanded." -Ernest Hemingway
"When spring came, even the false spring, there were no problems except where to be happiest. The only thing that could spoil a day was people and if you could keep from making engagements, each day had no limits. People were always the limiters of happiness except for the very few that were as good as spring itself." -Ernest Hemingway
"We are governed by what you find in the bottom of dead beer glasses that whores have dunked their cigarettes in. The place has not even been swept out yet and they have an amateur pianist beating on the box" -Ernest Hemingway
"I was pretty well through with the subject. At one time or another I had probably considered it from most of its various angles, including the one that certain injuries or imperfections are a subject of merriment while remaining quite serious for the person possessing them." -Ernest Hemingway
"For a true writer each book should be a new beginning where he tries again for something that is beyond attainment. He should always try for something that has never been done or that others have tried and failed. Then sometimes, with great luck, he will succeed." -Ernest Hemingway
"He felt the long light body, warm against him, comforting against him, abolishing loneliness against him, magically, by a simple touching of flanks, of shoulders and of feet, making an alliance against death with him." -Ernest Hemingway
"It was a very Corsican wine and you could dilute it by half with water and still receive its message." -Ernest Hemingway
"Dostoevsky was made by being sent to Siberia. Writers are forged in injustice as a sword is forged." -Ernest Hemingway
"Ay,"" he said aloud. There is no translation for this word and perhaps it is just a noise such as a man might make, involuntarily, feeling the nail go through his hands and into the wood." -Ernest Hemingway
"Is dying hard, Daddy?No, I think it's pretty easy, Nick. It all depends." -Ernest Hemingway
"I would stand and look out over the roofs of Paris and think, 'Do not worry. You have always written before and you will write now. All you have to do is write one true sentence. Write the truest sentence that you know.' So finally I would write one true sentence, and then go on from there." -Ernest Hemingway
"It was necessary that I leave Schruns and go to New York to rearrange publishers. I did my business inNew York and when I got back to Paris I should have caught the first train from the Gare de 1'Est that would take me down to Austria. But the girl I was in love with was in Paris then, and I did not take the first train, or the second or the third." -Ernest Hemingway
"one cup of it took the place of the evening papers, of all the old evenings in cafés, of all chestnut trees that would be in bloom now in this month, of the great slow horses of the outer boulevards, of book shops, of kiosques, and of galleries, of the Parc Montsouris, of the Stade Buffalo, and of the Butte Chaumont, of the Guaranty Trust Company and the Ile de la Cité, of Foyot's old hotel, and of being able to read and relax in the evening; of all the things he had enjoyed and forgotten and that came back to him when he tasted that opaque, bitter, tongue-numbing, brain-warming, stomach-warming, idea-changing liquid alchemy." -Ernest Hemingway
"The ultimate value of our lives is decided not by how we win but by how we lose" -Ernest Hemingway
"Let those who want to save the world if you can get to see it clear and as a whole. Then any part you make will represent the whole if it's made truly. The thing to do is work and learn to make it." -Ernest Hemingway
"´But when we sit together, close,´ said Bernard, ´we melt into each other with phrases.´" -Ernest Hemingway
"Then as I was getting up to the Closerie des Lilas with the light on my old friend, the statue of Marshal Ney with his sword out and the shadows of the trees on the bronze, and he alone there and nobody behind him and what a fiasco he'd made of Waterloo, I thought that all generations were lost by something and always had been and always would be and I stopped at the Lilas to keep the statue company and drank a cold beer before going home to the flat over the sawmill." -Ernest Hemingway
"It is easy when you are beaten, he thought. I never knew how easy it was." -Ernest Hemingway
"Good-bye, you chaps,' Mike said. 'It was a damned fine fiesta.''So long, Mike,' Bill said.'I'll see you around,' I said.'Don't worry about money,' Mike said. 'You can pay for the car, Jake, and I'll send you my share.''So long, Mike.''So long, you chaps. You've been damned nice.'We all shook hands. We waved from the car to Mike. He stood in the road watching." -Ernest Hemingway
"..and I felt the death loneliness that comes at the end of every day that is wasted in your life." -Ernest Hemingway
"It was never what he had done,but always what he could do. And he had chosen to make his living with something else instead of a pen or a pencil" -Ernest Hemingway
"I do not think I have ever seen a nastier-looking man... Under the black hat, when I had first seen them, the eyes had been those of an unsuccessful rapist. [on Brit poet Percy Wyndham Lewis]" -Ernest Hemingway
"I had already seen the end of fall come through boyhood, youth and young manhood, and in one place you could write about it better than in another. That was called transplanting yourself, I thought, and it could be as necessary with people as with other sorts of growing things." -Ernest Hemingway
"Survival, with honor, that outmoded and all-important word, is as difficult as ever and as all-important to a writer. Those who do not last are always more beloved since no one has to see them in their long, dull, unrelenting, no-quarter-given-and-no-quarter-received, fights that they make to do something as they believe it should be done before they die. Those who die or quit early and easy and with every good reason are preferred because they are understandable and human. Failure and well-disguised cowardice are more human and more beloved." -Ernest Hemingway
"He can't have gone, he said ""Christ know he can't have gone. He's making a turn. Maybe he has been hooked before and her remembers something of it."" The he felt the gentle touch on the line and he was happy." -Ernest Hemingway
"I remember the smell of the pines and the sleeping on the mattresses of beech leaves in the woodcutters' huts and the skiing through the forest following the tracks of hares and of foxes. In the high mountains above the tree line I remember following the track of a fox until I came in sight of him and watching him stand with his right forefoot raised and then go carefully to stop and then pounce, and the whiteness and the clutter of a ptarmigan bursting out of the snow and flying away and over the ridge." -Ernest Hemingway
"The most essential gift for a good writer is a built-in, shockproof, shit detector. This is the writer's radar and all great writers have had it." -Ernest Hemingway
"The first draft is always shit." -Ernest Hemingway
"Mice: But reading all the good writers might discourage you.Y.C.: Then you ought to be discouraged." -Ernest Hemingway
"You have that pleasant air of a dog in heat." -Ernest Hemingway
"I don't know. I only think the Austrians will not stop when they have won a victory. It is in defeat that we become Christian.""""The Austrians are Christians-- except for the Bosnians.""""I don't mean technically Christian. I mean like Our Lord.""He said nothing.""We are all gentler now because we are beaten. How would our Lord have been f Peter had rescued him in the Garden?" -Ernest Hemingway
"Never go on trips with anyone you do not love." -Ernest Hemingway
"Augustin stood there looking down at him and cursed him speaking slowly clearly bitterly and contemptuously and cursing as steadily as though he were dumping manure on a field lifting it with a dung fork out of a wagon." -Ernest Hemingway
"Like all men with a faculty that surpasses human requirements, his father was very nervous. Then, too, he was sentimental, and, like most sentimental people, he was both cruel and abused. Also, he had much bad luck, and it was not all of it his own. He had died in a trap that he had helped only a little to set, and they had all betrayed him in their various ways before he died. All sentimental people are betrayed so many times. Nick could not write about him yet, although he would, later," -Ernest Hemingway
"There is no left and right in writing. There is only good and bad writing." -Ernest Hemingway
"He was not sure that there were any great moments. Things were not the same and now life only came in flashes." -Ernest Hemingway
"I suppose she only wanted what she couldn't have. Well, people were that way." -Ernest Hemingway
"The cynical ones are the best companions. But the best of all are the cynical ones when they are still devout; or after; when having been devout, then cynical, they become devout again by cynicism." -Ernest Hemingway
"There was nothing to do about him. It was Easter Sunday and the Fascists were advancing toward the Ebro. It was a gray overcast day with a low ceiling so their planes were not up. That and the fact that cats know how to look after themselves was all the good luck that old man would ever have." -Ernest Hemingway
"It was one of those things that gave you a false feeling of soldering." -Ernest Hemingway
"There is no such word as love. Just as there is no word for sorry." -Ernest Hemingway
"This book is fiction, but there is always a chance that such a work of fiction may throw some light on what has been written as fact." -Ernest Hemingway
"It is silly not to hope, he thought." -Ernest Hemingway
"Then nothing worries you?' 'Only being sent away from you. You're my religion. You're all I've got." -Ernest Hemingway
"You only heard the statement of the loss. You did not see the father fall as Pilar made him see the fascists die in that story she had told by the stream. You knew the father died in some courtyard, or against some wall, or in some field or orchard, or at night, in the lights of a truck, beside some road. You had seen the lights of the car from down the hills and heard the shooting and afterwards you had come down to the road and found the bodies. You did not see the mother shot, nor the sister, nor the brother. You heard about it; you heard the shots; and you saw the bodies." -Ernest Hemingway
"Also, he had always had a great tolerance which seemed the nicest thing about him if it were not the most sinister." -Ernest Hemingway
"A severed femoral artery empties itself faster than you can believe." -Ernest Hemingway
"In the morning it was raining. A fog had come over the mountains from the sea. You could not see the tops of the mountains. The plateau was dull and gloomy, and the shapes of the trees and the houses were changed. I walked out beyond the town to look at the weather. The bad weather was coming over the mountains from the sea.The flags in the square hung wet form the with poles and the banners were wet and hung damp against the front of the houses, and in between the steady drizzle the rain came down and drove every one under the arcades and made pools of water in the square, and the streets were dark and deserted; yet the fiesta kept up without any pause. It was only driven under covers.The covered seats of the bull-ring had been crowded with people sitting out of the rain watching the concourse of Basque and Navarrais dancers and singers, and afterward the Val Carlos dancers in their costumes danced down the street in the rain, the drums sounding hallow and damp, and the chiefs of the bands riding ahead of their big, heavy-footed horse, their costumes wet, the horses' coats wet in the rain. The crowd was in the cafés and the dancers came in, too, and sat, their tight-wound white legs under the tables, shaking the water from their belled caps, and spreading their red and purple jackets over the chairs to dry. It was raining hard outside." -Ernest Hemingway
"When I am working on a book or story I write every morning as soon after first light as possible. There is no one to disturb you and it is cool or cold and you come to your work and warm as you write. You read what you have written and, as you always stop when you know what is going to happen next, you go on from there. You write until you come to a place where you still have your juice and know what will happen next and you stop and try to live through until the next day next you hit it again." -Ernest Hemingway
"Remember that he who conquers himself is greater than the one who conquers a city." -Ernest Hemingway
"For we have been there in the books and out of the books—and where we go, if we are any good, there you can go as we have been. A country, finally, erodes and the dust blows away, the people all die and none of them were of any importance permanently, except those who practised the arts," -Ernest Hemingway
"The purple, formalized, iridescent, gelatinous bladder of a Portuguese man-of-war was floating close beside the boat. It turned on its side and then righted itself. It floated cheerfully as a bubble with its long deadly purple filaments trailing a yard behind in the water." -Ernest Hemingway
"With all those who do not want to go to bed. With all those who need a light for the night." -Ernest Hemingway
"I always like the bad ones. I know he's a bad one of some sort." -Ernest Hemingway
"But I won't keep a count of people I have killed as though it were a trophy record or a disgusting business like notches in a gun, he told himself. I have a right to not keep count and I have a right to forget them.No, himself said. You have no right to forget anything. You have no right to shut your eyes to any of it nor any right to forget any of it nor to soften it nor to change it." -Ernest Hemingway
"دختری به کافه آمد و تنها، پشت میزی نزدیک پنجره نشست. بسیار زیبا بود و چهره‌ای داشت به تازگی سکهٔ تازه ضرب شده - البته هرگز سکه‌ای با نسوج صاف و پوست باران خورده ضرب نشده است. مو‌هایش، به سیاهی پر زاغ، صاف و اریب روی گونه‌هایش ریخته بود. نگاهش کردم و آرزو کردم که او را هم در داستان یا هر جای دیگری جا بدهم. هر بار که با مدادتراش مدادم را تیز می‌کردم و تراشه‌ها پیچ و تاب خوران توی نعلبکیِ زیر مشروبم می‌ریختند به آن دختر چشم می‌دوختم.  «دیدمت‌ای زیبا‌رو، و دیگر از آنِ منی-‌ حال چشم به راه هرکه خواهی گو باش- و چه باک که من هرگز دیگر نبینمت؟ تو از‌آنِ منی و سرتاسر پاریس از‌آنِ من است، و من از‌آنِ این دفتر و قلمم.»" -Ernest Hemingway
"You are all a lost generation." -Ernest Hemingway
"I was just bathing.''Aren't you the fortunate man. Bathing.''Only a shower." -Ernest Hemingway
"If you had stars inside your brain cells, you'd probably understand what I am talking about." -Ernest Hemingway
"A writer's style should be direct and personal, his imagery rich and earthy, and his words simple and vigorous. The greatest writers have the gift of brilliant brevity, are hard workers, diligent scholars and competent stylists." -Ernest Hemingway
"Vice is a wonderful thing,"" Catherine said. ""The people who go in for it seem to have good taste about it." -Ernest Hemingway
"But then we did not think of ourselves as poor. We did not accept it. we thought we were superior people and other people that we looked down on and rightly mistrusted were rich." -Ernest Hemingway
"For God sake write and don't worry about what the boys will say nor whether it will be a masterpiece nor what.I write one page of masterpiece to ninety one pages of shit. I try to put the shit in the wastebasket." -Ernest Hemingway
"Why must man not marry?"" ""He cannot marry. He cannot marry,"" he said angrily. ""If he is to lose everything, he should not place himself in a position to lose that. He should not place himself in a position to lose. He should find things he cannot lose." -Ernest Hemingway
"Hesitation increases in relation to risk in equal proportion to age." -Ernest Hemingway
"the things of the night cannot be explained in the day, because they do not then exist, and the night can be a dreadful time for lonely people once their loneliness has started." -Ernest Hemingway
"We're no kin,' Thomas Hudson said. 'We just used to live in the same town and make some of the same mistakes." -Ernest Hemingway
"I sleep on my face, and then it does not frighten anybody in the morning." -Ernest Hemingway
"Человек один не может...Все равно человек один не может ни черта" -Ernest Hemingway
"THE GAMBLER,THE NUN & THE RADIODo you have bad luck with all games?With everything and with women. He smiled again, showng his bad teeth.Truly? -TrulyAnd what is there to do?-Continue, slowly, and wait for luck to change." -Ernest Hemingway
"There is a hollow empty feeling that a man can have when he is waked too early in the morning that is almost like the feeling of disaster and he had this multiplied a thousand times." -Ernest Hemingway
"Everything about him was old except his eyes and they were the same color as the sea and were cheerful and undefeated" -Ernest Hemingway
"To hell with them. Nothing hurts if you don't let it." -Ernest Hemingway
"I'd be glad to kiss you if you don't mind." -Ernest Hemingway
"I am asking Scribners to insert as a subtitle in everything after the eighth printing THE SUN ALSO RISES (LIKE YOUR COCK IF YOU HAVE ONE) A greater Gatsby (Written with the friendship of F. Scott Fitzgerald (Prophet of THE JAZZ AGE)" -Ernest Hemingway
"For a writer to put his own intellectual musings, which he might sell for a low price as essays, into the mouths of artificially constructed characters which are more remunerative when issued as people in a novel is good economics, perhaps, but does not make literature." -Ernest Hemingway
"THE GAMBLER,THE NUN,& THE RADIOI am a poor idealist. I am a victim of illusions. He laughed." -Ernest Hemingway
"I went into the room and stayed with Catherine until she died. She was unconscious all the time, and it did not take her very long to die." -Ernest Hemingway
"You are going to die like a dog for no good reason" -Ernest Hemingway
"But the old man always thought of her as feminine and as something that gave or withheld great favours, and if she did wild or wicked things it was because she could not help them. The moon affects her as it does a woman, he thought." -Ernest Hemingway
"And I want to eat at a table with my own silver and I want candles. And I want it to be spring and I want to brush my hair out in front of a mirror and I want a kitty and I want some new clothes.""Oh, shut up and get something to read,"" George said. He was reading again.His wife was looking out of the window. It was quite dark now and still raining in the palm trees. ""Anyway, I want a cat,"" she said. ""I want a cat. I want a cat now. If I can't have long hair or any fun, I can have a cat."" George was not listening. He was reading his book. His wife looked out of the window where the light had come on in the square." -Ernest Hemingway
"But people do. They love each other and they misunderstand on purpose and they fight and then suddenly they aren't the same one." -Ernest Hemingway
"How good a book is should be judged by the man who writes it by the excellence of the material that he eliminates." -Ernest Hemingway
"I'll kill him though,' he said. 'In all his greatness and his glory." -Ernest Hemingway
"The road of the pass was hard and smooth and not yet dusty in the early morning." -Ernest Hemingway
"Staying quiet doesn't mean I have nothing to say, it means I don't think you're ready to hear my thoughts." -Ernest Hemingway
"Anything was better than Ezra learning to play the bassoon..." -Ernest Hemingway
"I have fought for what I believed in for a year now. If we win here we will win everywhere. The world is a fine place and worth the fighting for and I hate very much to leave it. And you had a lot of luck, he told himself, to have had such a good life. You've had as good a life as any one because of these last days. You do not want to complain when you have been so lucky.I wish there was some way to pass on what I've learned, though. Christ, I was learning fast there at the end." -Ernest Hemingway
"He lay flat on the brown, pine-needled floor of the forest, his chin on his folded arms, and high overhead the wind blew in the tops of the pine trees. The mountainside sloped gently where he lay; but below it was steep and he could see the dark of the oiled road winding through the pass. There was a stream alongside the road and water of the dam, white in the summer sunlight." -Ernest Hemingway
"With so many trees in the city, you could see the spring coming each day until a night of warm wind would bring it suddenly in one morning. [...] Part of you died each year when leaves fell from the tress and their branches were bare against the wind and the cold, wintry light. But you knew there would always be the spring, as you knew the river would flow again after it was frozen." -Ernest Hemingway
"It was not so much that he lied as that there was no truth to tell." -Ernest Hemingway
"I knew that now, reading it in the oversensitized state of my mind after too much brandy, I would remember it somewhere, and afterward it would seem as though it had really happened to me." -Ernest Hemingway
"That was what you did. You died. You did not know what it was about. You never had time to learn. They threw you in and told you the rules and the first time they caught you off base they killed you." -Ernest Hemingway
"I'd like to destroy you a few times in bed." -Ernest Hemingway
"Here's the reason why the peasant is wise. He's wise because he's beaten from the very start. Give him power and then you'll see how wise he is." -Ernest Hemingway
"She was sick and when she was sick she was sick as Southern women are sick." -Ernest Hemingway
"But are there not many fascists in your country?""""There are many who do not know they are fascists but will find it out when the times comes.'""But you cannot destroy them until they rebel?""""No,"" Robert Jordan said. ""We cannot destroy them. But we can educate the people so that they will fear fascism and recognize it as it appears and combat it." -Ernest Hemingway
"It is silly not to hope," -Ernest Hemingway
"I've tried to reduce profanity but I reduced so much profanity when writing the book that I'm afraid not much could come out. Perhaps we will have to consider it simply as a profane book and hope that the next book will be less profane or perhaps more sacred." -Ernest Hemingway
"The rain will stop, the night will end, the hurt will fade. Hope is never so lost that it can't be found." -Ernest Hemingway
"About morals, I know only that what is moral is what you feel good after and what is immoral is what you feel bad after." -Ernest Hemingway
"I wish I could write well enough to write that story, he thought. What we did. Not what the others did to us." -Ernest Hemingway
"He was completely integrated now and he took a good long look at everything. Then he looked up at the sky. There were big white clouds in it. He touched the palm of his hand against the pine needles where he lay and he touched the bark of the pine trunk that he lay behind." -Ernest Hemingway
"Like all men with a faculty that surpasses human requirements, his father was very nervous. Then, too, he was sentimental, and, like most sentimental people, he was both cruel and abused. Also, he had much bad luck, and it was not all of it his own. He had died in a trap that he had helped only a little to set, and they had all betrayed him in their various ways before he died." -Ernest Hemingway
"Do you want to keep your knee, young man?''No', I said.'What?''I want it cut off,' I said, 'so I can wear a hook on it." -Ernest Hemingway
"But walking down the stairs feeling each stair carefully and holding to the banister he thought, I must get her away and get her away as soon as I can without hurting her. Because I am not doing too well at this. That I can promise you. But what else can you do? Nothing, he thought. There's nothing you can do. But maybe, as you go along, you will get good at it." -Ernest Hemingway
"When you have two people who love each other, are happy and gay and really good work is being done by one or both of them, people are drawn to them as surely as migrating birds are drawn at night to a powerful beacon." -Ernest Hemingway
"Too much honor destroys a man quicker than too much of any other fine quality." -Ernest Hemingway
"Churchill drank twice what I did if you could believe the accounts and he had just been awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature. I was simply trying to step up my drinking to a reasonable amount when I might win the Prize myself; who knows?" -Ernest Hemingway
"He grinned with his hat on the back of his head. He looked more like a Broadway character of the Nineties than the lovely painter that he was, and afterwards, when he had hanged himself, I liked to remember him as he was that night at the Dôme. They say the seeds of what we will do are in all of us, but it always seemed to me that in those who make jokes in life the seeds are covered with better soil and with a higher grade of manure." -Ernest Hemingway
"Let's walk down the rue de Seine and look in all the galleries and in the windows of the shops.' ‘Sure. We can walk anywhere and we can stop at some new café where we don't know anyone and nobody knows us and have a drink.' ‘We can have two drinks.' ‘Then we can eat somewhere.' ‘No. Don't forget we have to pay the library.' ‘We'll come home and eat here and we'll have a lovely meal and drink Beaune from the co-operative you can see right out of the window there with the price of the Beaune on the window. And afterwards we'll read and then go to bed and make love.' ‘And we'll never love anyone else but each other.' ‘No. Never." -Ernest Hemingway
"First, there must be talent, much talent. Talent such as Kipling had. Then there must be discipline. The discipline of Flaubert. Then there must be the conception of what it can be and an absolute conscience as unchanging as the standard meter in Paris, to prevent faking. Then the writer must be intelligent and disinterested and above all he must survive. Try to get all these things in one person and have him come through all the influences that press on a writer. The hardest thing, because time is so short, is for him to survive and get his work done." -Ernest Hemingway
"It was a pleasant café, warm and clean and friendly, and I hung up my old waterproof on the coat rack to dry and put my worn and weathered felt hat on the rack above the bench and ordered a café au lait. The waiter brought it and I took out a notebook from the pocket of the coat and a pencil and started to write. I was writing about up in Michigan and since it was a wild, cold, blowing day it was that sort of day in the story." -Ernest Hemingway
"Writing is a hard business, but nothing makes you feel better" -Ernest Hemingway
"It was always pleasant crossing bridges in Paris." -Ernest Hemingway
"I would like to bear thy son and hy daughter,"" she told hime. ""And how can the world be made better if there are no children of us who fight against the fascists?" -Ernest Hemingway
"I have always believed that the man who begun to live more seriously within begins to live more simply without. In an age of extravagance and waste, I wish I could show to the world how few the real wants of humanity are." -Ernest Hemingway
"ليس في مقدوري أن أسيغ التفكير بأن حياتي تمضي مسرعة، وبأنني، في الواقع، لا أعيشها أبدًا" -Ernest Hemingway
"She said nothing is done to oneself that one does not accept and that if I loved someone it would take it all away." -Ernest Hemingway
"Bed is my friend." -Ernest Hemingway
"Wipe the pap of your mother's breast off thy lips and give me a hatful of that dirt,' the man with his chin on the ground said. 'No one of us will see the sun go down this night." -Ernest Hemingway
"And feel now. Thou hast no heart but mine." -Ernest Hemingway
"Brett was damned good-looking. She wore a slipover jersey sweater and a tweed skirt, and her hair was brushed back like a boy's. She started all that. She was built with curves like the hull of a racing yacht, and you missed none of it with that wool jersey." -Ernest Hemingway
"And just then it occurred to him that he was going to die. It came with a rush; not as a rush of water nor of wind; but of a sudden, evil-smelling emptiness and the odd thing was that the hyena slipped lightly along the edge of it." -Ernest Hemingway
"Каждый год в тебе что-то умирает, когда с деревьев опадают листья, а голые ветки беззащитно качаются на ветру в холодном зимнем свете. Но ты знаешь, что весна обязательно придет, так же как ты уверен, что замерзшая река снова освободится ото льда. Но когда холодные дожди льют не переставая и убивают весну, кажется, будто ни за что загублена молодая жизнь... ... ... В то время я уже знал, что, когда что-то кончается в жизни, будь то плохое или хорошее, остается пустота. Но пустота, оставшаяся после плохого, заполняется сама собой. Пустоту же после чего-то хорошего можно заполнить, только отыскав что-то лучшее..." -Ernest Hemingway
"But, then, nothing is easy." -Ernest Hemingway
"I told the boy I was a strange old man,' he said. 'Now is when I must prove it." -Ernest Hemingway
"And this,' he was saying aloud. 'And this. And this." -Ernest Hemingway
"There is no time to think of what you do not have. Think of what you can do with what there is." -Ernest Hemingway
"It was an hour before the first shark hit him." -Ernest Hemingway
"There is milk? What luxury!" -Ernest Hemingway
"Wine is the most civilized thing in the world." -Ernest Hemingway
"Below Les Avants there was a chalet where the pension was wonderful and we would be together and have our books and at night be warm in bed together with the windows open and the stars bright." -Ernest Hemingway
"The dentuso is cruel and able and strong and intelligent. But I was more intelligent than he was. Perhaps not, he thought. Perhaps I was only better armed." -Ernest Hemingway
"In a snowstorm it always seemed, for a time, as though there were no enemies." -Ernest Hemingway
"Fall for them, but don't let them ruin you." -Ernest Hemingway
"Hunger is healthy and the pictures do look better when you are hungry" -Ernest Hemingway
"Try to be alive. You will be dead soon enough." -Ernest Hemingway
"But an army that is made up of good and bad elements cannot win a war. All must be brought to a certain level of political development; all must know why they are fighting, and its importance. All must believe in the fight they are to make and all must accept discipline. - For Whom the Bell Tolls" -Ernest Hemingway
"You know it makes me feel rather good deciding not to be a bitch." -Ernest Hemingway
"I mistrust all frank and simple people, especially when their stories hold together," -Ernest Hemingway
"Then they were together so that as the hand on the watch moved, unseen now, they knew that nothing could ever happen to the one that did not happen to the other, that no other thing could happen more than this; that this was all and always; this was what had been and now and whatever was to come. This, that they were not to have, they were having." -Ernest Hemingway
"If the others heard me talking out loud they would think that I am crazy,"" he said aloud." -Ernest Hemingway
"To understand is to forgive. That's not true. Forgiveness has been exaggerated. Forgiveness is a Christian idea and Spain has never been a Christian country. It has always had its own special idol worship within the Church. 'Otra Virgen más'. I suppose that was why they had to destroy the virgins of their enemies. Surely it was deeper with them, with the Spanish religion fanatics, than it was with the people. The people had grown away from the Church because the Church was in the government and the government had always been rotten. This was the only country that the reformation never reached. They were paying for the Inquisition now, all right." -Ernest Hemingway
"It was not so much that he lied as that there was no truth to tell. He had had his life and it was over and then he went on living it again with different people and more money, with the best of the same places, and some new ones.You kept from thinking and it was all marvelous. You were equipped with good insides so that you did not go to pieces that way, the way most of them had, and you made an attitude that you cared nothing for the work you used to do, now that you could no longer do it. But, in yourself, you said that you would write about these people; about the very rich; that you were really not of them but a spy in their country; that you would leave it and write of it and for once it would be written by some one who knew what he was writing of. But he would never do it, because each day of not writing, of comfort, of being that which he despised, dulled his ability and softened his will to work so that, finally, he did no work at all." -Ernest Hemingway
"You should not judge; you should understand." -Ernest Hemingway
"من الأفضل لك أن تكون مقداما لا يتطرق الخوف إلى قلبك، وأن تثق بنفسك ." -Ernest Hemingway
"I always shot scorpions with the .22 pistol." -Ernest Hemingway
"He took all his pain and what was left of his strength and his long gone pride and he put it against the fish's agony and the fish came over onto his side and swam gently on his side, his bill almost touching the planking of the skiff and started to pass the boat, long, deep, wide, silver and barred with purple and interminable in the water." -Ernest Hemingway
"In going where you have to go, and doing what you have to do, and seeing what you have to see, you dull and blunt the instrument you write with. But I would rather have it bent and dull and know I had to put it on the grindstone again and hammer it into shape and put a whetstone to it, and know that I had something to write about, than to have it bright and shining and nothing to say, or smooth and well-oiled in the closet, but unused." -Ernest Hemingway
"Isn't love any fun? Marjorie said.""No,"" Nick said." -Ernest Hemingway
"He sat on the logs, smoking, drying in the sun, the sun warm on his back the river shallow ahead entering the woods, curving into the woods, shallows light glittering, big water-smooth rocks, cedars along the bank and white birches, the logs warm in the sun, smooth to sit on, without bark, gray to the touch; slowly the feeling of disappointment left him." -Ernest Hemingway
"You'll lose it if you talk about it." -Ernest Hemingway
"You know I'm no squealer, Harry.''You're a rummy. But no matter how rum dumb you get, if you ever talk about that, I promise you.''I'm a good man,' he said. 'You oughtn't to talk to me like that.''They can't make it fast enough to keep you a good man,' I told him. But I didn't worry about him any more because who was going to believe him?" -Ernest Hemingway
"Where did you wash? the boy thought. The village water supply was two streets down the road. I must have water here for him, the boy thought, and soap and a good towel. Why am I so thoughtless? I must get him another shirt and a jacket for the winter and some sort of shoes and another blanket." -Ernest Hemingway
"She's vicious,' Miss Stein said. 'She's truly vicious, so she can never be happy except with new people. She corrupts people." -Ernest Hemingway
"The fun of talk is to explore, but much of it and all that is irresponsible should not be written. Once written you have to stand by it. You may have said it to see whether you believed it or not. On the question you raised, the effects of wounds vary greatly. Simple wounds which do not break bone are of little account. They sometimes give confidence. Wounds which do extensive bone and nerve damage are not good for writers, nor anybody else.""-Interview for the Paris Review, 1956" -Ernest Hemingway
"Listen. You're a hell of a good guy, and I'm fonder of you than anybody on earth. I couldn't tell you that in New York. It'd mean I was a faggot. That was what the Civil War was about. Abraham Lincoln was a faggot. He was in love with General Grant. So was Jefferson Davis. Lincoln just freed the slaves on a bet. The Dred Scott case was framed by the Anti-Saloon League. Sex explains it all. The Colonel's Lady and Judy O'Grady are Lesbians under their skin. (101)" -Ernest Hemingway
"In life, one must (first) last."" ('Dans la vie, il faut [d'abord] durer.')" -Ernest Hemingway
"He took the bait like a male and he pulls like a male and his fight has no panic in it. I wonder if he has any plans or if he is just as desperate as I sin?" -Ernest Hemingway
"You know the fiction, prose rather, is possibly the roughest trade of all in writing. You do not have the reference, the old important reference. You have the sheet of blank paper, the pencil, and the obligation to invent truer than things can be true. You have to take what is not palpable and make it completely palpable and also have it seem normal and so that it can become a part of the experience of the person who reads it." -Ernest Hemingway
"She is kind and very beautiful. But she can be so cruel and it comes so suddenly" -Ernest Hemingway
"He wrote it exactly and the sinister part only showed as the light feathering of a smooth swell on a calm day marking the reef beneath." -Ernest Hemingway
"He was asleep in a short time and he dreamed of Africa when he was a boy and the long, golden beaches and the white beaches, so white they hurt your eyes, and the high capes and the great brown mountains. He lived along that coast now every night and in his dreams he heard the surf roar and saw the native boats come riding through it. He smelled the tar and oakum of the deck as he slept and he smelled the smell of Africa that the land breeze brought at morning." -Ernest Hemingway
"THE GAMBLER,THE NUN & THE RADIOI never carry a gun. With my luck, if i carried a gun I would be hanged ten times a year." -Ernest Hemingway
"But these, wide-finned in silver, roaring, the light mist of their propellers in the sun, these do not move like sharks. They move like nothing there has ever been. They move like mechanized doom." -Ernest Hemingway
"Gradually, then suddenly." -Ernest Hemingway
"Madame, it is always a mistake to know an author. (p.215)" -Ernest Hemingway
"Hem, you know I don't think that owner's wife where you live likes me. She wouldn't let me wait upstairs for you.''I'll tell her,' I said.'Don't bother. I can always wait here. It's very pleasant in the sun now, isn't it?''It's fall now,' I said. 'I don't think you dress warmly enough.''It's only cool in the evening,' Evan said. 'I'll wear my coat.''Do you know where it is?''No. But it's somewhere safe.''How do you know?''Because I left the poem in it." -Ernest Hemingway
"THE GAMBLER,THE NUN,& THE RADIOEverything is mucho simpler in a hospital, including jokes" -Ernest Hemingway
"You are not supposed to like things. Only to understand." -Ernest Hemingway
"pray for us sinners, now, and at the hour of our death" -Ernest Hemingway
"It was in that room too that I learned not to think about anything that I was writing from the time I stopped writing until I started again the next day. That way my subconscious would be working on it and at the same time I would be listening to other people and noticing everything, I hoped; learning, I hoped; and I would read so that I would not think about my work and make myself impotent to do it. Going down the stairs when you had worked well, and that needed luck as well as discipline, was a wonderful feeling and I was free then to walk anywhere in Paris." -Ernest Hemingway
"In America, they make such things of wire and of sponge-rubber, such as you use in the sets of tanks. You never know there, whether there is any truth in the matter, unless you are a bad boy as I am." -Ernest Hemingway
"Please come to bed and let me see you and feel you." -Ernest Hemingway
"There isn't any me. I'm you. Don't make up a separate me." -Ernest Hemingway
"For all of us who lived in Paris; we will never forget it because Paris is a moveable feast" -Ernest Hemingway
"You know the only thing I've ever lost is curiosity,"" he said to her.""You've never lost anything.You're the most complete man I've ever known" -Ernest Hemingway
"Mai pensare che la guerra, anche se giustificata, non sia un crimine." -Ernest Hemingway
"I never think and yet when I begin to talk I say the things I have found out in my mind without thinking." -Ernest Hemingway
"The one experience that he had never had he was not going to spoil now. He probably would. You spoiled everything. But perhaps he wouldn't" -Ernest Hemingway
"I'd be glad to shoot you.' ‘Would you?' ‘No. There's a law against it." -Ernest Hemingway
"Think about after the war and when you will paint again. There are so many good ones to paint and if you paint as well as you really can and keep out of all other things and do that, it is the true thing. You can paint the sea better than anyone now if you will do it and not get mixed up in other things. Hang on good now to how you truly want to do it. You must hold hard to life to do it." -Ernest Hemingway
"You lose them the same way your lose a battalion; by errors of judgment, orders that are impossible to fulfill, and through impossible conditions." -Ernest Hemingway
"Ambition...the original of vices;Mother of hypocrisy, parent of envy, engineer of deceit" -Ernest Hemingway
"My style might seem awkward, but I'm only trying to write down the things in the scene that I think the reader should know." -Ernest Hemingway
"Decía siempre la mar. Así es como dicen en español cuando la quieren. Aunque hablen mal de ella siempre se refieren a ella como si fuera una mujer." -Ernest Hemingway
"You find everything on earth at Harry's."" ""Yes, my Colonel. Except, possibly, happiness."" ""I'll damn well find happiness, too,"" the Colonel assured him. ""Happiness, as you know, is a movable feast." -Ernest Hemingway
"To hell with women, anyway. To hell with you, Brett Ashley. Women made such swell friends. Awfully swell. In the first place, you had to be in love with a woman to have a basis of friendship. I had been having Brett for a friend. I had not been thinking about her side of it. I had been getting something for nothing. That only delayed the presentation of the bill. The bill always came. That was one of the swell things you could count on. I thought I had paid for everything. Not like the woman pays and pays and pays." -Ernest Hemingway
"We are very serious so we can make very strong jokes." -Ernest Hemingway
"I understand. That's the trouble. I understand. I'll understand all the time. All day and all night. Especially all night. I'll understand. You don't have to worry about that." -Ernest Hemingway
"He killed more men than the cholera." -Ernest Hemingway
"He was fairly happy, except that, like many people living in Europe, he would rather have been in America, and he had discovered writing." -Ernest Hemingway
"Several people asked questions to hear themselves talk." -Ernest Hemingway
"I loved the country so that I was happy as you are after you have been with a woman that you really love, when, empty, you feel it welling up again and there it is and you can never have it all and yet what there is, now, you can have, and you want more and more, to have, and be, and live in, to possess now again for always, for that long, sudden-ended always; making time stand still, sometimes so very still that afterwards you wait to hear it move,and it is slow in starting." -Ernest Hemingway
"Su decisión habia sido permanecer en aguas profundas y tenebrosas, lejos de todas las trampas y cebos y traiciones. Mi decisión fué ir allá a buscarlo, mas allá de toda gente. Mas allá de toda gente en el mundo. Ahora estamos solos uno para el otro y así ha sido desde mediodía. Y nadie que venga a valernos, ni a él ni a mí." -Ernest Hemingway
"All of the sadness of the city came suddenly with the first cold rains of winter, and there were no more tops to the high white houses as you walked but only the wet blackness of the street and the closed doors of the small shops, the herb sellers, the stationery and the newspaper shops, the midwife—second class—and the hotel where Verlaine had died where you had a room on the top floor where you worked." -Ernest Hemingway
"The hardest thing in the world to do is to write straight honest prose on human beings. First you to know the subject; then you have to know how to write. Both take a lifetime to learn..." -Ernest Hemingway
"The author must write what he has to say, not speak it." -Ernest Hemingway
"Everybody had his arms on everybody else's shoulders, and they were all singing. Mike was sitting at the table with several men in their shirt-sleeves, eating from a bowl of tuna fish, chopped onions and vinegar. They were all drinking wine and mopping up the oil and vinegar with pieces of bread.'Hello, Jake. Hello!' Mike called. 'Come here. I want you to meet my friends. We are all having an hors d'œuvre." -Ernest Hemingway
"Drink it down, baby, and look forward to being sick." -Ernest Hemingway
"Often a man wishes to be alone and a girl wishes to be alone too and if they love each other they are jealous of that in each other, but I can truly say we never felt that. We could feel alone when we were together, alone against the others. It has only happened to me like that once. I have been alone while I was with many girls and that is the way that you can be most lonely. But we were never lonely and never afraid when we were together. I know that the night is not the same as the day: that all things are different, that the things of the night cannot be explained in the day, because they do not then exist, and the night can be a dreadful time for lonely people once their loneliness has started. But with Catherine there was almost no difference in the night except that it was an even better time. If people bring so much courage to this world the world has to kill them to break them, so of course it kills them. The world breaks every one and afterward many are strong at the broken places. But those that will not break it kills. It kills the very good and the very gentle and the very brave impartially. If you are none of these you can be sure it will kill you too but there will be no special hurry." -Ernest Hemingway
"You could not go back. If you did not go forward what happened?" -Ernest Hemingway
"He was an old man who fished alone in a skiff in the Gulf Stream and he had gone eight-four days now without taking a fish." -Ernest Hemingway
"I knelt and started to pray and prayed for everybody I thought of, Brett and Mike and Bill and Robert Cohn and myself, and all the bullfighters, separately for the ones I liked, and lumping all the rest, then I prayed for myself again, and while i was praying for myself I found I was getting sleepy, so I prayed that the bull-fights would be good, and that it would be a fine fiesta, and that we would get some fishing. I wondered if there was anything else I might pray for, and I thought I would like to have some money, so I prayed that I would make a lot of money, and then I started to think how I would make it and thinking of making money reminded me of the count, and I started wondering about where he was, and regretting I hadn't seen him since that night in Montmartre, and about something funny Brett told me about him, and as all the time I was kneeling with my forehead on the wood in front of me, and was thinking of myself praying, I was a little ashamed, and regretted that I was such a rotten Catholic, but realized there was nothing I could do about it, at least for a while, and maybe never, but that anyway it was a grand religion, and I only wished I felt religious and maybe I would the next time; and then I was out in the hot sun on the steps of the cathedral, and the forefingers and the thumb of my right hand were still damp, and I felt them dry in the sun." -Ernest Hemingway
"She had been married to a man who had never bored her and these people bored her very much" -Ernest Hemingway
"Dear Jesus, please get me out. Christ, please, please, please, Christ. If you only keep me from being killed I'll do anything you say. I believe in you and I'll tell everybody in the world that you are the only thing that matters. Please, please, dear Jesus' The shelling moved further up the line. We went to work on the trench and in the morning the sun came up and the day was hot and muggy and cheerful and quiet. The next night back at Mestre he did not tell the girl he went upstairs with at the Villa Rosa about Jesus. And he never told anybody." -Ernest Hemingway
"When I have an idea, I turn down the flame, as if it were a little alcohol stove, as low as it will go. Then it explodes and that is my idea." -Ernest Hemingway
"I wish he would go home. I never get to bed before three o'clock. What kind of hour is that to go to bed?''He stays up because he likes it.''He's lonely. I'm not lonely. I have a wife waiting in bed for me.''He had a wife once too.''A wife would be no good to him now.''You can't tell. He might be better with a wife.''His niece looks after him. You said she cut him down.''I know.''I wouldn't want to be that old. An old man is a nasty thing.''Not always. This old man is clean. He drinks without spilling. Even now, drunk. Look at him." -Ernest Hemingway
"I am like a blind pig when I work." -Ernest Hemingway
"If the others heard me talking out loud they would think that I am crazy,' he said aloud. 'But since I am not crazy, I do not care." -Ernest Hemingway
"In the snowstorm you came close to wild animals and they were not afraid. They travelled across country not knowing where they were and the deer stood sometimes in the lee of the cabin. In a snowstorm you rode up to a moose and he mistook your horse for another moose and trotted forward to meet you. In a snowstorm it always seemed, for a time, as though there were no enemies." -Ernest Hemingway
"The world breaks everyone and afterwardmany are strong at the broken places. Butthose that will not break it kills. It kills the verygood and the very gentle and the very braveimpartially. If you are none of these you can be sure it will kill you too but there will be no special hurry." -Ernest Hemingway
"Todo en él era viejo excepto sus ojos." -Ernest Hemingway
"We made love and then made love again and then after we had made love once more, quiet and dark and unspeaking and unthinking and then like a shower of meteors on a cold night, we went to sleep." -Ernest Hemingway
"I wondered where Cohn got that incapacity to enjoy Paris. Possibly from Mencken. Mencken hates Paris, I believe. So many young men get their likes and dislikes from Mencken." -Ernest Hemingway
"That something I cannot yet define completely but the feeling comes when you write well and truly of something and know impersonally you have written in that way and those who are paid to read it and report on it do not like the subject so they say it is all a fake, yet you know its value absolutely; or when you do something which people do not consider a serious occupation and yet you know, truly, that it is as important and has always been as important as all th things that are in fashion, and when, on the sea, you are alone with it and know that this Gulf Stream you are living with, knowing, learning about, and loving, has moved, as it moves, since before man and that it has gone by the shoreline of that long, beautiful, unhappy island since before Columbus sighted it and that the things you find out about it, and those that have always lived in it are permanent and of value because that stream will flow, as it has flowed, after the Indians, after the Spaniards, after the British, after the Americans and after all the Cubans and all the systems of governments, the richness, the poverty, the martyrdom, the sacrifice and the venality and the cruelty are all gone as the high-piled scow of garbage, bright-colored, white-flecked, ill-smelling, now tilted on its side, spills off its load into the blue water, turning it a pale green to a depth of four or five fathoms as the load spreads across the surface, the sinkable part going down and the flotsam of palm fronds, corks, bottles, and used electric light globes, seasoned with an occasional condom or a deep floating corset, the torn leaves of a student's exercise book, a well-inflated dog, the occasional rat, the no-longer-distinguished cat; well shepherded by the boats of the garbage pickers who pluck their prizes with long poles, as interested, as intelligent, and as accurate as historians; they have the viewpoint; the stream, with no visible flow, takes five loads of this a day when things are going well in La Habana and in ten miles along the coast it is as clear and blue and unimpressed as it was ever before the tug hauled out the scow; and the palm fronds of our victories, the worn light bulbs of our discoveries and the empty condoms of our great loves float with no significance against one single, lasting thing - the stream." -Ernest Hemingway
"understanding of it and I am not sure that I believe in it. Perhaps it was a sin to kill the fish. I suppose it was even though I did it to keep me alive and feed many people. But then everything is a sin. Do not think about sin. It is much too" -Ernest Hemingway
"You have to emend yourself. A man who doesn't sleep cannot live." -Ernest Hemingway
"Love is the wanting to do things for." -Ernest Hemingway
"I want you so much I want to be you too." -Ernest Hemingway
"But why must all the operations in life be performed without an anesthetic?" -Ernest Hemingway
"One cat just leads to another" -Ernest Hemingway
"When people are talking listen completely.Don't be thinking what you are going to say.Most people never listen.Nor do they observe.You should be able to go into a roomand when you come out know everythingthat you saw there and not only that.If that room gave you any feeling you should know exactly what it wasthat gave you that feeling. ...And always think of other people." -Ernest Hemingway
"The cat is the best anarchist." -Ernest Hemingway
"I wish we had horses to ride,"" Maria said. ""In my happiness I would like to be on a good horse and ride fast with thee riding fast beside me and we would ride faster and faster, galloping, and never pass my happiness." -Ernest Hemingway
"Зная, че нощта не е същата като деня, че нещата изглеждат различни тогава, че това, което преживяваш през нощта, не може да се обясни на дневна светлина, понеже тогава престава да съществува, и че нощта може да бъде страхотна за самотните, щом осъзнаят своята самота. Но с Кетрин нямаше никаква разлика между деня и нощта, освен може би тази, че нощите бяха по-хубави от дните. Когато хората се изправят пред света с толкова кураж, светът може да ги сломи само като ги убие. И той, разбира се, ги убива. Светът пречупва всички и у мнозина пречупеното място става по-здраво, но ония, които не се оставят да бъдат сломени, тях светът ги убива. Той убива безпристрастно и много добрите, и много кротките, и много смелите. Ако не си между тях, той пак ще те убие, но без да бърза." -Ernest Hemingway
"...his hands had the deep-creased scars from handling heavy fish on the cords. But none of these scars were fresh. They were as old as erosions in a fishless desert." -Ernest Hemingway
"He thought of the Riviera, as it was then before it had all been built up, with the lovely stretches of blue sea and the sand beaches and the stretches of pine woods and the mountains of the Esterel going out into the sea. He remembered it as it was when he and Zelda had first found it before people went there for the summer." -Ernest Hemingway
"What are you made of?""""What you love. And steel added." -Ernest Hemingway
"كان المانح في البداية الأدباء الروس ثم أضحي فيما بعد جميع الآخرين ولكن لوقت طويل كان الروس فقط" -Ernest Hemingway
"Oh Daddy, can't you give her something to make her stop screaming?"" asked Nick.""No. I haven't any anesthetic,"" his father said. ""But her screams are not important. I don't hear them because they are not important.""-Indian Camp-" -Ernest Hemingway
"Poor goddamned rummies,' Marie said. 'I pity a rummy.''He's a lucky rummy.' 'There ain't any lucky rummies,' Marie said. 'You know that, Harry.''No,' I said. 'I guess there aren't." -Ernest Hemingway
"You loved him when he was alive and you loved him after. If you love him, it is not a sin to kill him. Or is it more? 'You think too much, old man' he said aloud." -Ernest Hemingway
"for all the poor in the world against all tyranny" -Ernest Hemingway
"Scott took LITERATURE so solemnly. He never understood that it was just writing as well as you can and finishing what you start." -Ernest Hemingway
"He was a nice boy, a friendly boy, and very shy, and it made him bitter." -Ernest Hemingway
"The only writing that was any good was what you made up, what you imagined. That made everything come true. Everything good he had ever written he'd made up. None of it had ever happened. Other things had happened. Better things, maybe. That was what the family couldn't understand. They thought it was all experience. Nick in the stories was never himself. He made him up. Of course he had never seen an Indian woman having a baby. That was what made it good. Nobody knew that." -Ernest Hemingway
"Your nationality and your politics did not show when you were dead. Robert" -Ernest Hemingway
"Que va,' the boy said. 'There are many good fishermen and some great ones. But there is only you." -Ernest Hemingway
"The brave dies perhaps two thousand deaths if he's intelligent. He simply doesn't mention them." -Ernest Hemingway
"When spring came, even false spring, there were no problems except where to be happiest. The only thing that could spoil a day was people and if you could keep from making engagements, each day had no limits" -Ernest Hemingway
"I loved to take her hair down and she sat on the bed and kept very still, except suddenly she would dip down to kiss me while I was doing it, and I would take out the pins and lay them on the sheet and it would be loose and I would watch her while she kept very still and then take out the last two pins and it would all come down and she would drop her head and we would both be inside of it, and it was the feeling of inside a tent or behind a falls." -Ernest Hemingway
"No one should be alone in their old age, he thought. But it is unavoidable." -Ernest Hemingway
"But then we did not think ever of ourselves as poor. We did not accept it. We thought we were superior people and other people that we looked down on and rightly mistrusted were rich. It had never seemed strange to me to wear sweatshirts for underwear to keep warm. It only seemed odd to rich. We ate well and cheaply and drank well and cheaply and slept well and warm together and loved each other." -Ernest Hemingway
"It kills the very good and the very gentle and the very brave impartially. If you are none of these you can be sure it will kill you too but there will be no special hurry." -Ernest Hemingway
"When I was writing, it was necessary for me to read after I had written. If you kept thinking about it, you would lose the thing that you were writing before you could go on with it the next day. It was necessary to exercise, to be tired in the body, and it was very good to make love with whom you loved. That was better than anything. But afterwards, when you were empty, it was necessary to read in order to think or not worry about your work until you could do it again. I had learned already never to empty the well of my writing, but always to stop when there was still something there in the deep part of the well, and let it refill at night from the springs that fed it." -Ernest Hemingway
"I don't like to write like God. It is only because you never do it, though, that the critics think you can't do it." -Ernest Hemingway
"I've seen you, beauty, and you belong to me now, whoever you are waiting for and if I never see you again, I thought. You belong to me and all Paris belongs to me and I belong to this notebook and this pencil." -Ernest Hemingway
"So if your life trades its seventy years for seventy hours I have that value now and I am lucky enough to know it. And if there is not any such thing as a long time, nor the rest of your lives, nor from now on, but there is only now, why then now is the thing to praise and I am very happy with it. Now, ahora, maintenant, heute. Now," -Ernest Hemingway
"For many things are not as they appear. Discipline must come from trust and confidence." -Ernest Hemingway
"It evidently made no difference whether I was there to look after things or not." -Ernest Hemingway
"Thank you very much,' the girl said. 'You know that another woman, or a woman in memory, is a terrible thing for a young girl to deal with when she is still without experience." -Ernest Hemingway
"You did not do so badly for something worthless,' he said to his left hand. 'But there was a moment where I could not find you." -Ernest Hemingway
"Nick drank the coffee, the coffee according to Hopkins. The coffee was bitter. Nick laughed. It made a good ending to the story. His mind was starting to work. He knew he could choke it because he was tired enough. He spilled the coffee out of the pot and shook the grounds loose into the fire. He lit a cigarette and went inside the tent. He took off his shoes and trousers, sitting on the blankets, rolled the shoes up inside the trousers for a pillow and got in between the blankets.Out through the front of the tent he watched the glow of the fire when the night wind blew on it. It was a quiet night. The swamp was perfectly quiet. Nick stretched under the blanket comfortably. A mosquito hummed close to his ear. Nick sat up and lit a match. The mosquito was on the canvas, over his head. Nick moved the match quickly up to it. The mosquito made a satisfactory hiss in the flame. The match went out. Nick lay down again under the blankets. He turned on his side and shut his eyes. He was sleepy. He felt sleep coming. He curled up under the blanket and went to sleep." -Ernest Hemingway
"Cdo gjë mund të kalohet në këtë botë të mallkuar. Ndrydhi të gjitha ndjenjat, vdis nga brenda dhe cdo gjë do të kaloj lehtë. Vdis për së gjalli, ashtu sic bëjnë më të shumtët e njerëzve, në të shumtën e kohës. Besoj se kjo është rruga më e mire." -Ernest Hemingway
"I don't know,' Robert Jordan said. 'When I get very tired sometimes I speak English.Or when I get very disgusted. Or baffled, say. When I get highly baffled I just talk English to hear the sound of it. It's a reassuring noise. You ought to try it sometime.''What do you say, Inglés?' Pilar said. 'It sounds very interesting but I do not understand.''Nothing,' Robert Jordan said. 'I said, ‘nothing' in English." -Ernest Hemingway
"A serious writer is not to be confounded with a solemn writer. A serious writer may be a hawk or a buzzard or even a popinjay, but a solemn writer is always a bloody owl." -Ernest Hemingway
"I wish the boy was here,' he said aloud and settled himself against the rounded planks of the bow and felt the strength of the great fish through the line he held across his shoulders moving steadily toward whatever he had chosen.When once, through my treachery, it had been necessary to him to make a choice, the old man thought.His choice had been to stay in the deep dark water far out beyond all snares and traps and treacheries. My choice was to go there to find him beyond all people. Beyond all people in the world. Now we are joined together and have been since noon. And no one to help either one of us." -Ernest Hemingway
"But are there not many fascists in your country?' 'There are many who do not know they are fascists but will find it out when the time comes." -Ernest Hemingway
"But now he said his thoughts aloud many times since there was no one that they could annoy." -Ernest Hemingway
"I felt the death loneliness that comes at the end of every day that is wasted in your life" -Ernest Hemingway
"I can't say how every time I ever put my arms around you I felt that I was home." -Ernest Hemingway
"The colonel breakfasted with the leisure of a fighter who has been clipped badly, hears four, and knows how to relax truly for five seconds or more." -Ernest Hemingway
"Damn my fish,' the boy said and he started to cry again." -Ernest Hemingway
"Though there is one part of writing that is solid and you do it no harm by talking about it, the other is fragile, and if you talk about it, the structure cracks and you have nothing." -Ernest Hemingway
"Cowardice... is almost always simply a lack of ability to suspend functioning of the imagination." -Ernest Hemingway
"تبدو صغيرة جداً تلكَ العقبات التي بدت يوماً كبيرةٌ جداً" -Ernest Hemingway
"Nobody climbs on skis now and almost everybody breaks their legs but maybe it is easier in the end to break your legs than to break your heart although they say that everything breaks now and that sometimes, afterwards, many are stronger at the broken places. I do not know about that now but this is how Paris was in the early days when we were very poor and very happy." -Ernest Hemingway
"It was baking hot in the square when we came out after lunch with our bags and the rod-case to go to Burguete. People were on top of the bus, and others were climbing up a ladder. Bill went up and Robert sat beside Bill to save a place for me, and I went back in the hotel to get a couple of bottles of wine to take with us. When I came out the bus was crowded. Men and women were sitting on all the baggage and boxes on top, and the women all had their fans going in the sun. It certainly was hot. Robert climbed down and fitted into the place he had saved on the one wooden seat that ran across the top. Robert Cohn stood in the shade of the arcade waiting for us to start. A Basque with a big leather wine-bag in his lap lay across the top of the bus in front of our seat, leaning back against our legs. He offered the wine-skin to Bill and to me, and when I tipped it up to drink he imitated the sound of a klaxon motor-horn so well and so suddenly that spilled some of the wine, and everybody laughed. He apologized and made me take another drink. He made the klaxon again a little later, and it fooled me the second time. He was very good at it. The Basques liked it. The man next to Bill was talking to him in Spanish and Bill was not getting it, so he offered the man one of the bottles of wine. The man waved it away. He said it was too hot and he had drunk too much at lunch. When Bill offered the bottle the second time he took a long drink, and then the bottle went all over that part of the bus. Every one took a drink very politely, and then they made us cork it up and put it away. They all wanted us to drink from their leather wine-bottles. They were peasants going up into the hills." -Ernest Hemingway
"All right, said Nick. Let's get drunk.All right, Bill said. Let's get really drunk." -Ernest Hemingway
"Any form of betrayal can be final. Dishonesty can be final. Selling out is final. But you are just talking now. Death is what is really final." -Ernest Hemingway
"It wasn't by accident that the Gettysburg adress was so short. The laws of prose writing are immutable as those of flight, of mathematics, of physics. Fr letter to Maxwell Perkins 1945" -Ernest Hemingway
"That was morality; things that made you disgusted afterward. No, that must be immorality." -Ernest Hemingway
"The bullfight is a Spanish institution; it has not existed because of the foreigners and tourists, but always in spite of them and any step to modify it to secure their approval, which it will never have, is a step towards its complete suppression." -Ernest Hemingway
"Imagine if each day a man must try to kill the moon, he thought. The moon runs away. But imagine if a man each day should have to try to kill the sun? We were born lucky, he thought." -Ernest Hemingway
"My wife and I had called on Miss Stein, and she and the friend who lived with her had been very cordial and friendly and we had loved the big studio with the great paintings. It was like one of the best rooms in the finest museum except there was a big fireplace and it was warm and comfortable and they gave you good things to eat and tea and natural distilled liqueurs made from purple plums, yellow plums or wild raspberries. These were fragrant, colorless alcohols served from cut-glass carafes in small glasses and whether they were quetsche, mirabelle or framboise they all tasted like the fruits they came from, converted into a controlled fire on your tongue that warmed you and loosened your tongue. Miss Stein was very big but not tall and was heavily built like a peasant woman. She had beautiful eyes and a strong German-Jewish face that also could have been Friulano and she reminded me of a northern Italian peasant woman with her clothes, her mobile face and her lovely, thick, alive immigrant hair which she wore put up in the same way she had probably worn it in college. She talked all the time and at first it was about people and places." -Ernest Hemingway
"The room was in that disorder produced only by those who have always had servants." -Ernest Hemingway
"Dizem que as sementes daquilo que havemos de realizar se encontram já todas dentro de nós, mas sempre me pareceu que, naqueles que troçam da vida, as sementes se encontram cobertas de melhor terra e de uma percentagem mais alta de adubo." -Ernest Hemingway
"I have tried to write by the old rule that how good a book is should be judged by the man who writes it by the excellence of the material that he eliminates." -Ernest Hemingway
"A plan was a plan and a decision was truly a decision and knowing all this and having been well educated in the usages of divorce, Thomas Hudson was happy that a compromise had been made and that the children were coming for five weeks. If five weeks is what we get, he thought, that is what we draw. Five weeks is a good long time to be with people that you love and would wish to be with always." -Ernest Hemingway
"Pamplona is changed, of course, but not as much as we are older. I found that if you took a drink that it got very much the same as it always was." -Ernest Hemingway
"Grief doesn't split." -Ernest Hemingway
"She needs an enemy so badly always that she has to keep one near and she's the nearest and the easiest to attack knowing the weaknesses and strengths and all the faults of our defenses." -Ernest Hemingway
"It was considered a virtue not to talk unnecessarily at sea and the old man had always considered it so and respected it." -Ernest Hemingway
"You cannot imagine how one can tire of pine trees." -Ernest Hemingway
"Oh, darling,' she said. 'You will be good to me, won't you?'What the hell, I thought. I stroked her hair and patted her shoulder. She was crying. 'You will, won't you?' She looked up at me. 'Because we're going to have a strange life." -Ernest Hemingway
"Let's say that he should go out and hang himself because he finds that writing well is impossibly difficult. Then he should be cut down without mercy and forced by his own self to write as well as he can for the rest of his life. At least he will have the story of the hanging to commence with." -Ernest Hemingway
"To win a war, we must kill our enemies." -Ernest Hemingway
"He used the word gamut." -Ernest Hemingway
"He could see the fish and he had only to look at his hands and feel his back against the stern to know that this had truly happened and was not a dream." -Ernest Hemingway
"I hate him, too,"" she shivered. ""I hate his damned suffering." -Ernest Hemingway
"The Purdey was not a Purdey but a straight-stocked long-barreled Scott live-pigeon full choke in both barrels thai I had bought from a lot of shotguns a dealer had brought down fron Udine to the Kechlers' villa in Codroipo." -Ernest Hemingway
"We are all apprentices in a craft where no one ever becomes a master" -Ernest Hemingway
"A thousand years makes economics silly and a work of art endures for ever, but it is very difficult to do and now it is not fashionable." -Ernest Hemingway
"You killed him for pride and because you are a fisherman. You loved him when he was alive and you loved him after. If you love him, it is not a sin to kill him. Or is it more?" -Ernest Hemingway
"Non c'è nessun amico più leale di un libro." -Ernest Hemingway
"They all wanted something that i did not want and i would get it without wanting it, if it worked." -Ernest Hemingway
"He lived in Udine and came out in this way nearly every day to see how things were going, and things went very badly." -Ernest Hemingway
"She talked all the time and at first it was about people and places." -Ernest Hemingway
"Scott told me about the Riviera and how my wife and I must come there' the next summer and how we would go there and how he would find a place for us that was not expensive and we would both work hard every day and swim and lie on the beach and be brown and only have a single aperitif before lunch and one before dinner. Zelda. would be happy there, he said. She loved to swim and was a beautiful diver and she was happy with that life and would want him to work and everything would be disciplined. He and Zelda. and their daughter were going to go there that summer. I was trying to get him to write his stories as well as he could and not trick them to conform to any formula, as he had explained that he did." -Ernest Hemingway
"Everything is on such a clear financial basis in France. It is the simplest country to live in. No one makes things complicated by becoming your friend for any obscure reason. If you want people to like you you have only to spend a little money. I spent a little money and the waiter liked me. He appreciated my valuable qualities. He would be glad to see me back. I would dine there again some time and he would be glad to see me, and would want me at his table. It would be a sincere liking because it would have a sound basis. I was back in France." -Ernest Hemingway
"This is a bad life for good children" -Ernest Hemingway
"am as clear as the stars that are my brothers. Still I must sleep. They sleep and the moon and the sun sleep and even the ocean sleeps sometimes on certain days when there is no current and a flat calm." -Ernest Hemingway
"The rich were dull and they drank too much, or they played too much backgammon. They were dull and they were repetitious. He remembered poor Julian and his romantic awe of them and how he had started a story once that began, 'The very rich are different from you and me.' And how some one had said to Julian, Yes, they have more money. But that was not humorous to Julian. He thought they were a special glamourous race and when he found they weren't it wrecked him just as much as any other thing that wrecked him. He had been contemptuous of those who wrecked. You did not have to like it because you understood it. He could beat anything, he thought, because no thing could hurt him if he did not care." -Ernest Hemingway
"By then I knew that everything good and bad left an emptiness when it stopped. But if it was bad, the emptiness was filled up by itself. If it was good you could only fill it by finding something better." -Ernest Hemingway
"That seemed to handle it. That was it. Send a girl off with one man. Introduce her to another to go off with him. Now go and bring her back. And sign the wire with love. That was it all right. I went in to lunch" -Ernest Hemingway
"if the day was bright, I would buy a liter of wine and a piece of bread and some sausage and sit in the sun and read one of the books I had bought and watch the fishing." -Ernest Hemingway
"I knew there were many side-roads but did not want one that would lead to nothing." -Ernest Hemingway
"He always thought of the sea as la mar which is what people call her in Spanish when they love her. Sometimes those who love her say bad things of her but they are always said as though she were a woman." -Ernest Hemingway
"The bull who killed Vicente Girones was named Bocanegra, was Number 118 of the bull-breeding establishment of Sanchez Taberno, and was killed by Pedro Romero as the third bull of that same afternoon. His ear was cut by popular acclimation and given to Pedro Romero, who, in turn, gave it to Brett, who wrapped it in a handkerchief belonging to myself, and left both ear and handkerchief, along with a number of Muratti cigarette-stubs, shoved far back in the drawer of the bed-table that stood beside her bed in the Hotel Montoya, in Pamplona." -Ernest Hemingway
"My Latin is very beat up,' Thomas Hudson said. 'Along with my Greek, my English, my head, and my heart. All I know how to speak now is frozen daiquiri. ¿Tú hablas frozen daiquiri tú?" -Ernest Hemingway
"We drove out along the coast road. There was the green of the headlands, the white, red-roofed villas, patches of forest, and the ocean very blue with the tide out and the water curling far out along the beach. We drove through Saint Jean de Luz and passed through villages farther down the coast. Back of the rolling country we were going through we saw the mountains we had come over from Pamplona. The road went on ahead. Bill looked at his watch. It was time for us to go back. He knocked on the glass and told the driver to turn around. The driver backed the car out into the grass to turn it. In back of us were the woods, below a stretch of meadow, then the sea." -Ernest Hemingway
"I guess you are all right. That was bad luck all right. Plenty bad luck." -Ernest Hemingway
"And then instead of going on to Arusha they turned left, he evidently figured that they had the gas, and looking down he saw a pink sifting cloud, moving over the ground, and in the air, like the first snow in a blizzard, that comes from nowhere, and he knew the locusts were coming up from the South. Then they began to climb and they were going to the East it seemed, and then it darkened and they were in a storm, the rain so thick it seemed like flying through a water- fall, and then they were out and Compie turned his head and grinned and pointed and there, ahead, all he could see, as wide as all the world, great, high, and unbelievably white in the sun, was the square top of Kilimanjaro" -Ernest Hemingway
"I am speaking much. But it is so we may understand one another." -Ernest Hemingway
"…Her lips an island in the sudden white sea of pain that came in a shining, unbearable, rising, blinding wave and swept him clean." -Ernest Hemingway
"Now fix the drink and then tell me what happened." -Ernest Hemingway
"If a good woman isn't a little bit Bitchy sometimes, it is just as though Dijon mustard didn't have any taste." -Ernest Hemingway
"Love, you poison my typewriter. How can I write with every key screaming? Since you've left, I've had hangovers they could name battleships after." -Ernest Hemingway
"He had already learned there was only one day at a time and that is was always the day you were in. It would be today until it was tonight and tomorrow would be today again. This was the main thing he had learned so far." -Ernest Hemingway
"— Չե՞ս կարող թողնել, որ մարդ հանգիստ մեռնի, պետք է անպայման պիտակնե՞ր կպցնես։ Ինչ օգուտ, որ ինձ վախկոտ ես անվանում։" -Ernest Hemingway
"I put my arm around her and felt our hearts beating through our sweaters and I brought my right hand up and felt her neck smooth and the hair thick against it under my fingers that were shaking." -Ernest Hemingway
"...that most exciting perversion of life; the necessity of accomplishing something in less time than should truly be allowed for its doing." -Ernest Hemingway
"Hem,' he said, and I knew he was a critic now, since, in conversation, they put your name at the beginning of a sentence rather than at the end." -Ernest Hemingway
"Everyone given the right opportunity will behave badly." -Ernest Hemingway
"I wish I had the boy." -Ernest Hemingway
"Man is not much beside the great birds andbeasts." -Ernest Hemingway
"At pier four there is a 34-foot yawl-rigged yacht with two of the three hundred and twenty-four Esthonians who are sailing around in different parts of the world, in boats between 28 and 36 feet long and sending back articles to the Esthonian newspapers. These articles are very popular in Esthonia and bring their authors between a dollar and a dollar and thirty cents a column. They take the place occupied by the baseball or football news in American newspapers and are run under the heading of Sagas of Our Intrepid Voyagers. No well-run yacht basin in Southern waters is complete without at least two sunburned, salt bleached-headed Esthonians who are waiting for a check from their last article. When it comes they will sail to another yacht basin and write another saga. They are very happy too. Almost as happy as the people on the Alzira III. It's great to be an Intrepid Voyager." -Ernest Hemingway
"At night, there was the feeling that we had come home, feeling no longer alone, waking in the night to find the other one there, and not gone away; all other things were unreal. We slept when we were tired and if we woke the other one woke too so one was not alone. Often a man wishes to be alone and a woman wishes to be alone too and if they love each other they are jealous of that in each other, but I can truly say we never felt that. We could feel alone when we were together, alone against the others. We were never lonely and never afraid when we were together." -Ernest Hemingway
"You've got a lovely everything." -Ernest Hemingway
"Man is not much beside the great birds and beasts. Still I would rather be that beast down there in the darkness of the sea." -Ernest Hemingway
"Italy is a country every man should love once." -Ernest Hemingway
"All things truly wicked start from an innocence." -Ernest Hemingway
"On the eastward crossing on the Ile de France Thomas Hudson learned that hell was not necessarily as it was described by Dante or any other of the great hell-describers, but could be a comfortable, pleasant, and well-loved ship taking you toward a country that you had always sailed for with anticipation. It had many circles and they were not fixed as in those of the great Florentine egotist. He had gone aboard the ship early, thinking of it, he now knew, as a refuge from the city where he had feared meeting people who would speak to him about what had happened." -Ernest Hemingway
"And pain does not matter to a man." -Ernest Hemingway
"All art is only done by the individual. The individual is all you ever have and all schools only serve to classify their members as failures." -Ernest Hemingway
"It's a book which, no matter how many readers it will ever have, will never have enough." -Ernest Hemingway
"Oh, go to hell.""He stood up from the table his face white, and stood there white and angry behind the little plates of hors d' œuvres.""Sit down,"" I said. ""Don't be a fool.""""You've got to take that back.""""Oh, cut out the prep-school stuff.""""Take it back.""""Sure. Anything. I never heard of Brett Ashley. How's that?""""No. Not that. About me going to hell.""""Oh, don't go to hell,"" I said. ""Stick around. We're just starting lunch." -Ernest Hemingway
"I went out the door and suddenly I felt lonely and empty. I had treated seeing Catherine very lightly, I had gotten somewhat drunk and had nearly forgotten to come but when I could not see her there I was feeling lonely and hollow." -Ernest Hemingway
"Ought not to daunt you. Never be daunted. Secret of my success. Never been daunted. Never been daunted in public." -Ernest Hemingway
"Bigotry is an odd thing. To be bigoted you have to be absolutely sure that you are right and nothing makes that surety and righteousness like continence. Continence is the foe of heresy.How would that premise stand up if he examined it? That was probably why the Communists were always cracking down on Bohemianism. When you were drunk or when you committed either fornication or adultery you recognized your own personal fallibility of that so mutable substitute for the apostles' creed, the party line. Down with Bohemianism, the sin of Mayakovsky." -Ernest Hemingway
"A young dame with pretty eyes and a smile can make an old man do just about anything." -Ernest Hemingway
"No. The two kinds of fools we have in Russia,' Karkov grinned and began. 'First there is the winter fool. The winter fool comes to the door of your house and he knocks loudly. You go to the door and you see him there and you have never seen him before. He is an impressive sight. He is a very big man and he has on high boots and a fur coat and a fur hat and he is all covered with snow. First he stamps his boots and snow falls from them. Then he takes off his fur coat and shakes it and more snow falls. Then he takes off his fur hat and knocks it against the door. More snow falls from his fur hat. Then he stamps his boots again and advances into the room. Then you look at him and you see he is a fool. That is the winter fool." -Ernest Hemingway
"The fact the book was a tragic one did not make me unhappy since I believed that life was a tragedy and knew it could have only one end." -Ernest Hemingway
"Don't you ever get the feeling that all your life is going by and you're not taking advantage of it? Do you realize you've lived nearly half the time you have to live already?" -Ernest Hemingway
"Yes,"" I said. ""Isn't it pretty to think so?" -Ernest Hemingway
"Why be puzzled by that? From things that have happened and from things as they exist and from all things that you know and all those you cannot know, you make something through your invention that is not a representation but a whole new thing truer than anything true and alive, and you make it alive, and if you make it well enough, you give it immortality. That is why you write and for no other reason that you know of. But what about all the reasons that no one knows?" -Ernest Hemingway
"Leave me with my memories. With my true, beautiful memories." -Ernest Hemingway
"But, you say, there is very little conversation in this book. Why isn't there more dialoge? What we want in a book by this citizen is people talking; that is all he knows how to do and now he doesn't do it. The fellow is no philosopher, no savant, an incompetent zoologist, he drinks too much and cannot punctuate readily and now he has stopped writing dialogue. Some one ought to put a stop to him. He is bull crazy." -Ernest Hemingway
"No one lives his whole life besides toreadors." -Ernest Hemingway
"I think I understand, Willie,' he said. 'Oh shit,' Willie said. 'You never understand anybody that loves you." -Ernest Hemingway
"How every one he had slept with had only made him miss her more" -Ernest Hemingway
"The rifle and the pistol are still the equalizer when one man is more of a man than another, and if…he is really smart…he will get a permit to carry one and then drop around to Abercrombie and Fitch and buy himself a .22 caliber Colt automatic pistol, '''Woodsman model''', with a five-inch barrel and a box of shells. I advise him to get lubricated hollow points to avoid jams and to ensure a nice expansion on the bullet. He might even get several boxes and practice a little…" -Ernest Hemingway
"Ma di cosa sei fatta, tu?""""Di quello che ami"" disse lei. ""Più l'acciaio." -Ernest Hemingway
"I bei libri si distinguono perché sono più veri di quanto sarebbero se fossero storie vere." -Ernest Hemingway
"But I will show him what a man can doand what a man endures." -Ernest Hemingway
"How do you tell a valuable French book?' 'First there are the pictures. Then it is a question of the quality of the pictures. Then it is the binding. If a book is good, the owner will have it bound properly. All books in English are bound, but bound badly. There is no way of judging them." -Ernest Hemingway
"Try to learn to breathe deeply, really to taste food when you eat, and when you sleep, really to sleep. Try as much as possible to be wholly alive with all your might, and when you laugh, laugh like hell. And when you get angry, get good and angry. Try to be alive. You will be dead soon enough. — Ernest Hemingway" -Ernest Hemingway
"The great thing is to last and get your work done and see and hear and learn and understand; and write when there is something that you know; and not before; and too damned much after. Let those who want to save the world if you can get to see it clear and as a whole. Then any part you make will represent the whole if it's made truly. The thing to do is work and learn to make it." -Ernest Hemingway
"That is what you did. You died. You did not know what it was about. You never had time to learn. They threw you in and told you the rules and the first time they caught you off base they killed you." -Ernest Hemingway
"He was mad and plenty brave." -Ernest Hemingway
"I could picture it. I have a rotten habit of picturing the bedroom scenes of my friends." -Ernest Hemingway
"For a man to take it at thirty-four as a guide-book to what life holds is about as safe as it would be for a man of the same age to enter Wall Street direct from a French convent, equipped with a complete set of the more practical Alger books." -Ernest Hemingway
"A töprengés éppoly veszedelmes, mint a félelem." -Ernest Hemingway
"I have tried simply to write the best I can; sometimes I have good luck and write better than I can." -Ernest Hemingway
"He always thought of the sea as la mar which is what people call her in Spanish when they love her. Sometimes those who love her say bad things of her but they are always said as though she were a woman. Some of the younger fishermen, those who used buoys as floats for their lines and had motorboats, bought when the shark livers had brought much money, spoke of her as el mar which is masculine. They spoke of her as a contestant or a place or even an enemy. But the old man always thought of her as feminine and as something that gave or withheld great favours, and if she did wild or wicked things it was because she could not help them. The moon affects her as it does a woman, he thought." -Ernest Hemingway
"It was probably bad busting it off,' Bill said. 'But you always fall for somebody else and then it's all right. Fall for them but don't let them ruin you.' 'Yes," -Ernest Hemingway
"I even read aloud the part of the novel that I had rewritten, which is about as low as a writer can get and much more dangerous for him as a writer than glacier skiing unroped before the full winter snowfall has set over the crevices." -Ernest Hemingway
"This too to remember. If a man writes clearly enough any one can see if he fakes. If he mystifies to avoid a straight statement, which is very different from breaking so-called rules of syntax or grammar to make an effect which can be obtained in no other way, the writer takes a longer time to be known as a fake and other writers who are afflicted by the same necessity will praise him in their own defense. True mysticism should not be confused with incompetence in writing which seeks to mystify where there is no mystery but is really only the necessity to fake to cover lack of knowledge or the inability to state clearly. Mysticism implies a mystery and there are many mysteries; but incompetence is not one of them; nor is overwritten journalism made literature by the injection of a false epic quality. Remember this too: all bad writers are in love with the epic." -Ernest Hemingway
"The professor at the boxing gymnasium wore mustaches and was very precise and jerky and went all to pieces if you started after him." -Ernest Hemingway
"Let me tell you something. You won't mind, will you? Don't have scenes with your young ladies. Try not to. Because you can't have scenes without crying, and then you pity yourself so much you can't remember what the other person's said. You'll never be able to remember conversations that way. Just try and be calm. I know it's awfully hard. But remember, it's for literature. We all ought to make sacrifices for literature. Look at me. I'm going to England without a protest. All for literature." -Ernest Hemingway
"The moon was up now and the trees were dark against it, and he passed the frame houses with their narrow yards, light coming from the shuttered windows; the unpaved alleys, with their double rows of houses; Conch town, where all was starched, well-shuttered, virtue, failure, grit and boiled grunts, under-nourishment, prejudice, righteousness, inter-breeding and the comforts of religion; the open-doored, lighted Cuban boilto houses, shacks whose only romance was their names" -Ernest Hemingway
"Когато двама души се обичат, когато те са щастливи и весели, и единият от тях или двамата работят и правят нещо наистина хубаво, те привличат хората тъй силно, както морският фар привлича прелетните птици нощем. Ако двамината можеха да бъдат тъй здраво изградени като морски фар, биха пострадали само птиците." -Ernest Hemingway
"Bed is my friend. Just bed, he thought. Bed will be a great thing. It is easy when you are beaten, he thought." -Ernest Hemingway
"They would hit a man in the water, if they were hungry, even if the man had no smell of fish blood nor of fish slime on him.'Ay,' the old man said. 'Galanos. Come on galanos." -Ernest Hemingway
"I wanted to try this new drink: That's all we do, isn't it—look at things and try new drinks?" -Ernest Hemingway
"In those days there was no money to buy books. Books you borrowed from the rental library of Shakespeare and Company, which was the library and bookstore of Sylvia Beach at 12 rue de l'Odéon. On a cold windswept street, this was a lovely, warm, cheerful place with a big stove in winter, tables and shelves of books, new books in the window, and photographs on the wall of famous writers both dead and living. The photographs all looked like snapshots and even the dead writers looked as though they had really been alive. Sylvia had a lively, very sharply cut face, brown eyes that were as alive as a small animal's and as gay as a young girl's, and wavy brown hair that was brushed back from her fine forehead and cut thick below her ears and at the line of the collar of the brown velvet jacket she wore. She had pretty legs and she was kind, cheerful and interested, and loved to make jokes and gossip. No one that I ever knew was nicer to me. I was very shy when I first went into the bookshop and I did not have enough money on me to join the rental library. She told me I could pay the deposit any time I had the money and made me out a card and said I could take as many books as I wished. There was no reason for her to trust me. She did not know me and the address I had given her, 74 rue Cardinal Lemoine, could not have been a poorer one. But she was delightful and charming and welcoming and behind her, as high as the wall and stretching out into the back room which gave onto the inner court of the building, were the shelves and shelves of the richness of the library." -Ernest Hemingway
"Culture makes people understand each other better. And if they understand each other better in their soul, it is easier to overcome the economic and political barriers. But first they have to understand that their neighbour is, in the end, just like them, with the same problems, the same questions." -Ernest Hemingway
"The cider tasted like Michigan too and I always remembered the cider mill" -Ernest Hemingway
"All remembrance of things past is fiction." -Ernest Hemingway
"I don't want to fool with it but what choice have I got? They don't give you any choice now. I can let it go; but what will the next thing be? I didn't ask for any of this and if you've got to do it you've got to do it." -Ernest Hemingway
"He looked at the sky and saw the white cumulus built like friendly piles of ice cream and high above were the thin feathers of the cirrus against the high September sky." -Ernest Hemingway
"Man is not much beside the great birds and beasts." -Ernest Hemingway
"There is a time to break all your rules. Maybe not all." -Ernest Hemingway
"Just two so far,' Roger said. 'My counselor and I.' 'My counselor and me,' Johnny said. 'How the hell do you write books?' 'I can always hire someone to put in the grammar." -Ernest Hemingway
"After writing a story I was always empty and both sad and happy, as though I had made love." -Ernest Hemingway
"I suppose she only wanted what she couldn't have. Well, people were that way. To hell with people. The Catholic Church had an awfully good way of handling all that. Good advice, anyway. Not to think about it. Oh, it was swell advice. Try and take it sometime. Try and take it." -Ernest Hemingway
"You look at the picture without prejudice,read book with open heart,like yours,but the life, you simply live" -Ernest Hemingway
"No. It's bad for me. Cole Porter wrote the words and the music. This knowledge that you're going mad for me." -Ernest Hemingway
"Are you less sad now?' Honest Lil asked 'Yes.' 'Tell me, Tom. What are you sad about?' 'El mundo entero.' 'Who isn't sad about the whole world? It goes worse all the time. But you can't spend your time being sad about that.' 'There isn't any law against it.' 'There doesn't have to be a law against things for them to be wrong." -Ernest Hemingway
"It is usually impossible for a large body of people to support themselves indefinitely by borrowing money, although a few people enjoy a great success at it for a time." -Ernest Hemingway
"Nobody ever lives their life all the way up except bull-fighters." -Ernest Hemingway
"You have it now and that is all your whole life is; now. There is nothing else than now. There is neither yesterday, certainly, nor is there any tomorrow. How old must you be before you know that? There is only now," -Ernest Hemingway
"I do feel better, Thomas Hudson thought. That is the funny part. You always feel better and you always get over your remorse. There's only one thing you don't get over and that is death." -Ernest Hemingway
"In those days you did not really need anything, not even the rabbit's foot, but it was good to feel it in your pocket." -Ernest Hemingway
"The boy Paco had never known about any of this nor about what all these people would be doing on the next day and on other days to come. He had no idea how they really lived nor how they ended. He did not even realize they ended." -Ernest Hemingway
"It is awfully easy to be hard-boiled about everything in the daytime, but at night is another thing." -Ernest Hemingway
"Don't ever kid yourself about loving someone. It is just that most people are not lucky enough ever to have it. What you have...whether it lasts just through today and a part of tomorrow, or whether it lasts for a long life is the most important thing that can happen to a human being. There will always be people who say it does not exist because they cannot have it. But I tell you it is true and that you have it and that you are lucky even if you die tomorrow." -Ernest Hemingway
"So I wasn't feeling so good about tonight. There's a lot of wickeds at large. Really bads. And hitting them is no solution. I think that's one reason why they provoke you.' He turned over on the bed and lay face up. 'You know evil is a hell of a thing, Tommy. And it's smart as a pig. You know they had something in the old days about good and evil.' 'Plenty of people wouldn't classify you as a straight good,' Thomas Hudson told him. 'No. Nor do I claim to be. Nor even good nor anywhere near good. I wish I were though. Being against evil doesn't make you good. Tonight I was against it and then I was evil myself. I could feel it coming in just like a tide." -Ernest Hemingway
"Harry looked at him and you could see the murder come in his face. ... Harry didn't say anything, but you could see the killing go out of his face and his eyes came open natural again." -Ernest Hemingway
"Fight them,' he said. 'I'll fight them until I die." -Ernest Hemingway
"But, thank God, they are not as intelligent as we who kill them; although they are more noble and more able." -Ernest Hemingway
"There isn't any need to deny everything there's been just because you are going to lose it." -Ernest Hemingway
"In the end everyone, or not quite everyone, made friends again in order not to be stuffy or righteous. I did too. But I could never make friends again truly, neither in my heart nor in my head. When you cannot make friends any more in your head is the worst. But it was more complicated than that." -Ernest Hemingway
"That was called transplanting yourself, I thought, and it could be as necessary with people as with other sorts of growing things." -Ernest Hemingway
"I learned one thing.' 'What?' 'Never to go on trips with anyone you do not love." -Ernest Hemingway
"But those were Frenchmen and you can work out military problems clearly when you are fighting in somebody else's country.""""Yes,"" I replied, ""when it is your own country you can not use it so scientifically.""""The Russians did, to trap Napoleon.""""Yes, but they had plenty of country. If you tried to retreat to trap Napoleon in Italy you would find yourself in Brindiri." -Ernest Hemingway
"Just as, with the radio, there are certain things that you become fond of, and you welcome them and resent the new things" -Ernest Hemingway
"There is not much future in men being friends with a great woman although it can be pleasant enough before it gets better or worse, and there is usually even less future with truly ambitious women writers." -Ernest Hemingway
"Inside the closed double lip of his jaws all of his eight rows of teeth were slanted inwards. They were not the ordinary pyramid-shaped teeth of most sharks. They were shaped like a man's fingers when they are crisped like claws." -Ernest Hemingway
"Let us sleep,' he said, and he felt the long light body, warm against him, comforting against him, abolishing loneliness against him, magically, by a simple touching of flanks, of shoulders and of feet, making an alliance against death with him, and he said, 'Sleep well, little long rabbit." -Ernest Hemingway
"We had a Corsican wine that had great authority and a low price. It was a very Corsican wine and you could dilute it by half with water and still receive its message.A Moveable Feast" -Ernest Hemingway
"She should have. All woman should see it. It's a face that ought to be thrown on every screen in the country. Every woman ought to be given a copy of this face as she leaves the altar. Mothers should tell their daughters about this face. My son' – he pointed the razor at me – 'go west with this face and grow up with the country." -Ernest Hemingway
"You expected to be sad in the fall. Part of you died each year when the leaves fell from the trees and their branches were bare against the wind and the cold, wintry light. But you knew there would always be the spring, as you knew the river would flow again after it was frozen. When the cold rains kept on and killed the spring, it was as though a young person had died for no reason." -Ernest Hemingway
"The town was very nice and our house was very fine. The river ran behind us and the town had been captured very handsomely but the mountains beyond it could not be taken and I was very glad the Austrians seemed to want to come back to the town some time, if the war should end, because they did not bombard it to destroy it but only a little in a military way." -Ernest Hemingway
"But, he thought, I keep them with precision. Only I have no luck any more. But who knows? Maybe today. Every day is a new day. It is better to be lucky. But I would rather be exact. Then when luck comes you are ready." -Ernest Hemingway
"We are born with all we have and we never learn. We never get anything new. We all start complete." -Ernest Hemingway
"Ако в ранни младини си платил своята дан на идеята за общество, демокрация и други такива, а след това откажеш да се обременяваш с неща от този род и решиш да отговаряш само пред себе си, ти заменяш задушевната и задушна атмосфера на приятелството срещу нещо, което можеш да изпиташ единствено ако си сам. Нещо, което все още не можеш точно да определиш, но го чувствуваш, когато пишеш хубаво и вярно нещо с вътрешна убеденост, и макар че ония, на които плащат да четат и коментират написаното, не го харесват и казват, че то е измама, ти си абсолютно сигурен в неговата стойност. Или когато вършиш нещо, което хората не смятат за сериозно занимание, а ти знаеш, уверен си, че то е важно и винаги е било, че не е по-малко важно от всички модни неща. Или когато си сам с това нещо в морето и знаеш, че Гълфстриймът, с който живееш, който обичаш, който познаваш и за който искаш да научиш повече си тече, както е текъл, откак свят светува, и е мил бреговете на този дълъг, красив, нещастен остров, преди Колумб да го е видял, и не нещата, които научаваш за него, и тези, които винаги са били в него, са нетленни и стойността им е непреходна, защото това морско течение ще тече така, както е текло след индианците, след испанците, след англичаните, след американците и след кубинците и всички различни системи на управление, ще тече, след като богатството и бедността, мъченичеството и саможертвата, продажността и жестокостта си отидат, отнесени като купищата смет — зловонни, яркоцветни, осеяни тук-там с нещо лъскаво, — които общинският шлеп изтърсва в синята вода, тя потъмнява на десетина метра дълбочина, по-тежкото потъва, по-лекото остава на повърхността и течението го подхваща — палмови клонки, тапи, бутилки, изгорели електрически крушки, някой презерватив или корсет, носещ се в дълбочината, откъснати страници от учебник, подут труп на куче, плъх, обезобразена котка, а събирачите на остатъци са тук с лодките си и подбират боклука както овчари стадото си, бъркат във водата с дългите куки и вадят интересни находки, заинтригувани, съсредоточени и точни като историци — това са хора с гледна точка, които преценяват. Течението е незабележимо, но отнася по пет такива товара боклук дневно, когато нещата вървят добре в Хавана, а на десет мили по-нататък водите му са пак тъй чисти, сини и неизменни, каквито са били и преди влекачът да е докарал на буксир шлепа с боклука. И палмовите клонки на нашите победи, изгорелите електрически крушки на нашите открития и просветления, празните презервативи на голямата ни любов плават безсмислено по течението, което единствено е непреходно." -Ernest Hemingway
"I had try to tell the difference between the night and the day and how the night was better unless the day was very clean and cold and I could not tell it; as I cannot tell it now. But if you have had it you know." -Ernest Hemingway
"She looked fresh and young and very beautiful. I thought I had never seen any one so beautiful. ‘Hello,' I said. When I saw her I was in love with her. Everything turned over inside of me" -Ernest Hemingway
"Books should be about the people you know, that you love and hate, not about the people you study up about." -Ernest Hemingway
"THE GAMBLER,THE NUN,& THE RADIOIt is necessary to be very strong against something" -Ernest Hemingway
"Ես միշտ էլ վախեցած եմ, բայց հիմա այնքան եմ քեզ համար վախենում, որ ինձ մոռացել եմ:" -Ernest Hemingway
"There is no lonelier man in death, except the suicide, than that man who has lived many years with a good wife and then outlived her. If two people love each other there can be no happy end to it." -Ernest Hemingway
"Write the truest sentence you know. Then write another.""-- Hemingway's advice to other young writers in ""A Moveable Feast." -Ernest Hemingway
"he had failed to kill his loneliness, but only made it worse, he had written her, the first one, the one who left him, a letter telling her how he had never been able to kill it. … How when he thought he saw her outside the Regence one time it made him go all faint and sick inside, and that he would follow a woman who looked like her in some way, along the Boulevard, afraid to see it was not she, afraid to lose the feeling it gave him. How every one he had slept with had only made him miss her more. How what she had done could never matter since he knew he could not cure himself of loving her." -Ernest Hemingway
"You did not do so badly for something worthless,' he said to his left hand. 'But there was a moment when I could not find you." -Ernest Hemingway
"پاریس را هرگز پایانی نیست و خاطره‌ی هر کسی که در آن زیسته باشد با خاطره‌ی دیگری فرق دارد. ما همیشه آنجا باز می‌گشتیم، بی‌توجه به اینکه که بودیم یا پاریس چگونه تغییر کرده بود یا با چه دشواری‌ها و راحتی‌ها می‌شد به آن رسید. پاریس همیشه ارزشش را داشت و در ازای هر چه برایش می‌بردی چیزی می‌گرفتی. به هر حال این بود پاریس در آن روزهایی که ما بسیار تهیدست و بسیار خوشبخت بودیم" -Ernest Hemingway
"You don't have to destroy me. Do you? I'm only a middle-aged woman who loves you and wants to do what you want to do. I've been destroyed two or three times already. You wouldn't want to destroy me again, would you?' 'I'd like to destroy you a few times in bed,' he said. 'Yes. That's the good destruction. That's the way we're made to be destroyed." -Ernest Hemingway
"Perhaps wars weren't won anymore. Maybe they went on forever." -Ernest Hemingway
"El vino me hace hablar de una manera diferente a la absentha" -Ernest Hemingway
"I've seen you, beauty, and you belong to me now, whoever you are waiting for and if I never see you again, I thought. You belong to me and all Paris belongs to me and I belong to this notebook and this pencil. Then I went back to writing and I entered far into the story and was lost in it. I was writing it now and it was not writing itself and I did not look up nor know anything about the time nor think where I was nor order any more rum St. James. I was tired of rum St. James without thinking about it. Then the story was finished and I was very tired. I read the last paragraph and then I looked up and looked for the girl and she had gone. I hope she's gone with a good man, I thought. But I felt sad." -Ernest Hemingway
"Up in that room I decided that I would write one story about each thing that I knew about. I was trying to do this all the time I was writing, and it was good and severe discipline." -Ernest Hemingway
"She was built with curves like the hull of a racing yacht, and you missed none of it with that wool jersey." -Ernest Hemingway
"Now the boy was gone and the kitten had grown into an old cat and had outlived the boy. The way he and Boise felt now, he thought, neither one wanted to outlive the other. I don't know how many people and animals have been in love before, he thought. It probably is a very comic situation. But I don't find it comic at all." -Ernest Hemingway
"When you have been concentrating so hard on something you can't stop and your brain gets to racing like a fly-wheel with the weight gone. You'd better just not think." -Ernest Hemingway
"Now I have done what I can, he thought. Let him begin to circle and let the fight come." -Ernest Hemingway
"That was what you did. You died. You did not know what it was about. You never had any time to learn. They threw you in and told you the rules and the first time they caught you off base they killed you. Or they killed you gratuitously like Aymo. Or gave you the syphilis like Rinaldi. But they killed you in the end. You could count on that. Stay around and they would kill you." -Ernest Hemingway
"Only suckers worry. But he can knock the worry if he takes a Scotch and soda. The hell with what the doctor says. So he rings for one and the steward comes sleepily, and as he drinks it, the speculator is not a sucker now; except for death." -Ernest Hemingway
"watched Lewis carefully without seeming to look at him, as you do when you are boxing, and I do not think I had ever seen a nastier-looking man. Some people show evil as a great race horse shows breeding. They have the dignity of a hard chancre. Lewis did not show evil; he just looked nasty." -Ernest Hemingway
"In him, too, was despair from the sorrow that soldiers turn to hatred in order that they may continue to be soldiers. Now it was over he was lonely, detached and unelated and he hated every one he saw." -Ernest Hemingway
"Montoya could forgive anything of a bull-fighter who had afición. He could forgive attacks of nerves, panic, bad unexplainable actions, all sorts of lapses. For one who had afición he could forgive anything. At once he forgave me all my friends. Without his ever saying anything they were simply a little something shameful between us, like the spilling open of the horses in bull-fighting." -Ernest Hemingway
"Fuckers in school telling me, always in the barber shopChief Keef ain't 'bout this, Chief ain't 'bout that" -Ernest Hemingway
"I don't know. I guess the cards we draw are those we get. You wouldn't like to re-deal would you, dealer?No. They only deal to you once and then you pick them up and play them. I can play them, if I draw any damn thing at all..." -Ernest Hemingway
"He whispered this last so low that it was inaudible to anyone that did not love you." -Ernest Hemingway
"Tell me everything at once." -Ernest Hemingway
"I want nothing. I just want the emptiness to mean something." -Ernest Hemingway
"But I fear the Indians of Cleveland." -Ernest Hemingway
"Ezra asked me to bring you this,' I said and handed him the jar. 'He said you would know what it was.'He took the jar and looked at it. Then he threw it at me. It struck me on the chest or the shoulder and rolled down the stairs.'You son of a bitch,' he said. 'You bastard.''Ezra said you might need it,' I said. He countered that by throwing a milk bottle.'You are sure you don't need it?' I asked.He threw another milk bottle. I retreated and he hit me with yet another milk bottle in the back. Then he shut the door.I picked up the jar which was only slightly cracked and put it in my pocket.'He did not seem to want the gift of Monsieur Pound,"" I said to the concierge.'Perhaps he will be tranquil now,' she said.'Perhaps he has some of his own,' I said.'Poor Monsieur Dunning,' she said.The lovers of poetry that Ezra organized rallied to Dunning's aid again eventually. My own intervention and that of the concierge had been unsuccessful. The jar of alleged opium which had been cracked I stored wrapped in waxed paper and carefully tied in one of an old pair of riding boots. When Evan Shipman and I were removing my personal effects from that apartment some years later the boots were still there but the jar was gone. I do not know why Dunning threw the milk bottles at me unless he remembered my lack of credulity the night of his first dying, or whether it was only an innate dislike of my personality. But I remember the happiness that the phrase 'Monsieur Dunning est monté sur le toit et refuse catégoriquement de descendre' gave to Evan Shipman. He believed there was something symbolic about it. I would not know. Perhaps Dunning took me for an agent of evil or of the police. I only know that Ezra tried to be kind to Dunning as he was kind to so many people and I always hoped Dunning was as fine a poet as Ezra believed him to be. For a poet he threw a very accurate milk bottle. But Ezra, who was a very good poet, played a good game of tennis too. Evan Shipman, who was a very fine poet and who truly did not care if his poems were ever published, felt that it should remain a mystery.'We need more true mystery in our lives, Hem,' he once said to me. 'The completely unambitious writer and the really good unpublished poem are the things we lack most at this time. There is, of course, the problem of sustenance." -Ernest Hemingway
"The madness all over" -Ernest Hemingway
"you could live in the other wonderful world the Russian writers were giving you. At first there were the Russians; then there were all the others. But for a long time there were the Russians." -Ernest Hemingway
"Robert Jordan knew that now his papers were being examined by the man who could not read." -Ernest Hemingway
"it is the considered belief of the writer of this book that wars are fought by the finest people that there are, or just say people, although, the closer you are to where they are fighting, the finer people you meet; but they are made, provoked and initiated by straight economic rivalries and by swine that stand to profit from them. I believe that all the people who stand to profit by a war and who help provoke it should be shot on the first day it starts by accredited representatives of the loyal citizens of their country who will fight" -Ernest Hemingway
"The old man drank his coffee slowly. It was all he would have all day and he knew that he should take it. For a long time now eating had bored him and he never carried a lunch." -Ernest Hemingway
"The ocean is very big and a skiff is small and hard to see,"" the old man said. He noticed how pleasant it was to have someone to talk to instead of speaking only to himself and to the sea." -Ernest Hemingway
"Although it is unjust, he thought. But I will show him what a man can do and what a man endures." -Ernest Hemingway
"In the night he awoke and held her tight as though she were all of life and it was being taken away from him." -Ernest Hemingway
"Here he was, settled on the island, when he could as well be in Africa. Hell, he thought, I can always go there. You have to make it inside of yourself wherever you are. You are doing all right at that here." -Ernest Hemingway
"Eat an egg." -Ernest Hemingway
"Down the river was Notre Dame squatting against the night sky." -Ernest Hemingway
"If you ever live to be as old as I am you will find many things strange.' 'You never seem old.' 'It is the body that is old. Sometimes I am afraid I will break off a finger as one breaks a stick of chalk. And the spirit is no older and not much wiser.' 'You are wise.' 'No, that is the great fallacy; the wisdom of old men. They do not grow wise. They grow careful.' 'Perhaps that is wisdom.' 'It is a very unattractive wisdom." -Ernest Hemingway
"For a part of a day it would be pleasant to have the house neat and to think alone and read without hearing other people talk and look at things without speaking of them and work properly without interruption and then he knew the loneliness would start. The three boys had moved into a big part of him again that, when they moved out, would be empty and it would be very bad for a while." -Ernest Hemingway
"Nobody knows what's in him until he tries to pull it out." -Ernest Hemingway
"What did he fear? It was not fear or dread. It was a nothing that he knew too well. It was all a nothing and a man was nothing too. It was only that and light was all it needed and a certain cleanness and order. Some lived in it and never felt it but he knew it all was nada y pues nada y nada y pues nada. Our nada who art in nada, nada be thy name thy kingdom nada thy will be nada in nada as it is in nada. Give us this nada our daily nada and nada us our nada as we nada our nadas and nada us not into nada but deliver us from nada; pues nada. Hail nothing full of nothing, nothing is with thee. He smiled and stood before a bar with a shining steam pressure coffee machine. 'What's yours?' asked the barman. 'Nada.' 'Otro loco m ás,' said the barman and turned away." -Ernest Hemingway
"The thousand times that he had proved it meant nothing. Now he was proving it again. Each time was a new time and he never thought about the past when he was doing it." -Ernest Hemingway
"What an excellent fish dolphin is to eat cooked,"" he said. ""And what a miserable fish raw. I will never go in a boat again without salt or limes." -Ernest Hemingway
"If a writer of prose knows enough about what he is writing about he may omit things that he knows and the reader, if the writer is writing truly enough, will have a feeling of those things as strongly as though the writer had stated them. The dignity of movement of an ice-berg is due to only one-eighth of it being above water. A writer who omits things because he does not know them only makes hollow places in his writing. A writer who appreciates the seriousness of writing so little that he is anxious to make people see he is formally educated, cultured or well-bred is merely a popinjay. A serious writer may be a hawk or a buzzard or even a popinjay, but a solemn writer is always a bloody owl." -Ernest Hemingway
"Always do sober what you said you'd do drunk... that will teach you to keep your mouth shut. ---Ernest Hemingway" -Ernest Hemingway
"If people bring so much courage to this world the world has to kill them to break them, so of course it kills them. The world breaks every one and afterward many are strong at the broken places. But those that will not break it kills. It kills the very good and the very gentle and the very brave impartially. If you are none of these you can be sure it will kill you too but there will be no special hurry." -Ernest Hemingway
"All the passengers were crowded over on the landside of the ship, watching through the narrow windows the careened hulk of a freighter, visibly damaged by shellfire, which had driven ashore to beach her cargo. She lay aground, looking against the sand in that clear water like a whale with smokestacks that had come to the beach to die." -Ernest Hemingway
"I may not be as strong as I think,' the old man said, 'But I know many tricks and I have resolution." -Ernest Hemingway
"This looking and not seeing things was a great sin, I thought, and one that was easy to fall into. It was always the beginning of something bad and I thought that we did not deserve to live in the world if we did not see it." -Ernest Hemingway
"The earth gets tired of being exploited." -Ernest Hemingway
"Maybe away from Paris I could write about Paris as in Paris I could write about Michigan. I did not know it was too early for that because I did not know Paris well enough. But that was how it worked out eventually. Anyway we would go if my wife wanted to, and I finished the oysters and the wine and paid my score in the café and made it the shortest way back up the Montagne Ste. Geneviève through the rain, that was now only local weather and not something that changed your life, to the flat at the top of the hill." -Ernest Hemingway
"He watched Richard Gordon lurching down the street until he was out of sight in the shadow from the big trees whose branches dipped down to grow into the ground like roots. What he was thinking as he watched him was not pleasant. It is a mortal sin, he thought, a grave and deadly sin and a great cruelty, and while technically one's religion may permit the ultimate result, I cannot pardon myself. On the other hand, a surgeon cannot desist while operating for fear of hurting the patient. But why must, all operations in life be performed with out an anesthetic? If I had been a better man I would have let him beat me up. It would have been better for him. The poor stupid man. The poor homeless man. I ought to stay with him, but I know that is too much for him to bear. I am ashamed and disgusted with myself and I hate what I have done. It all may turn out badly too. But I must not think about that. I will now return to the anesthetic I have used for seventeen years and will not need much longer. Although it is probably a vice now for which I only invent excuses. Though at least it is a vice for which I am suited. But I wish I could help that poor man who I am wronging." -Ernest Hemingway
"Gultā viss šķiet skaisti." -Ernest Hemingway
"No one should be alone in their old age, he thought. But it is unavoidable.It was too good to last.If there is a hurricane you always see the signs of it in the sky for days ahead, if you are at sea. They do not see it ashore because they do not know what to look for.It is silly not to hope. Besides I believe it is a sin.Do not think about sin, he thought. There are enough problems now without sin. Also, I have no understanding of it. … and I am not sure that I believe in it. Perhaps it was a sin to kill the fish. I suppose it was even though I did it to keep me alive and feed many people. But then everything is a sin. Do not think about sin. It is much too late for that and there are people who are paid to do it. Let them think about it. You were born to be a fisherman as the fish was born to be a fish.....You did not kill the fish only to keep alive and to sell for food, he thought. You killed him for pride and because you are a fisherman. You loved him when he was alive and you loved him after. If you love him, it is not a sin to kill him. Or is it more?Everything kills everything else in some way. Fishing kills me exactly as it keeps me alive.'Don't think, old man,' he said aloud. 'Sail on this course and take it when it comes. But I must think, he thought. Because it is all I have left.It is easy when you are beaten, he thought. I never knew how easy it was. And what beat you, he thought. 'Nothing,' he said aloud. 'I went out too far." -Ernest Hemingway
"I remember all of these things happening and the places we lived in and the fine times and the bad times we had in that year. But much more vividly I remember living in the book and making up what happened in it every day. Making the country and the people and the things that happened I was happier than I had ever been. Each day I read the book through from the beginning to the point where I went on writing and each day I stopped when I was still going good and when I knew what would happen next. The fact the book was a tragic one did not make me unhappy since I believed that life was a tragedy and knew it could have only one end. But finding you were able to make something up; to create truly enough so that it made you happy to read it; and to do this every day you worked was something that gave a greater pleasure than any I had ever known. Beside it nothing else mattered." -Ernest Hemingway
"Ülkeyi yöneten bir sınıf var, akılsız bir sınıf. Hiçbirinin bir boktan anladığı yok. Bu savaş bu yüzden çıktı işte." -Ernest Hemingway
"Good night then. I will wake you in the morning.' 'You're my alarm clock,' the boy said. 'Age is my alarm clock,' the old man said. 'Why do old men wake so early? Is it to have one longer day?' 'I don't know,' the boy said. 'All I know is that young boys sleep late and hard.' 'I can remember it,' the old man said. 'I'll waken you in time." -Ernest Hemingway
"The world breaks everyone and later many are strong at the broken places." -Ernest Hemingway
"Should I pity so and so?"" I asked. I gave his name but he delights so in giving it himself that I feel there is no need to give it for him. ""No. He's vicious. He's a corrupter and he's truly vicious."" ""But he's supposed to be a good writer."" ""He's not,"" she said. ""He's just a showman and he corrupts for the pleasure of corruption and he leads people into other vicious practices as well." -Ernest Hemingway
"Bad luck to your mother." -Ernest Hemingway
"Every novel which is truly written contributes to the total of knowledge which is there at the disposal of the next writer who comes, but the next writer must pay, always, a certain nominal percentage in experience to be able to understand and assimilate what is available as his birthright and what he must, in turn, take his departure from. If a writer of prose knows enough about what he is writing about he may omit things that he knows and the reader, if the writer is writing truly enough, will have a feeling of those things as strongly as though the writer had stated them. The dignity of movement of an ice-berg is due to only one-eighth of it being above water. A writer who omits things because he does not know them only makes hollow places in his writing. A writer who appreciates the seriousness of writing so little that he is anxious to make people see he is formally educated, cultured or well-bred is merely a popinjay. And this too remember; a serious writer is not to be confounded with a solemn writer. A serious writer may be a hawk or a buzzard or even a popinjay, but a solemn writer is always a bloody owl." -Ernest Hemingway
"With her mouth closed she was a rather pretty girl." -Ernest Hemingway
"There is not much future in men being friends with great women although it can be pleasant enough before it gets better or worse, and there is usually even less future with truly ambitious women writers." -Ernest Hemingway
"I must hold his pain where it is, he thought. Mine does not matter. I can control mine. But his pain could drive him mad." -Ernest Hemingway
"Let's drop the war.''It's very hard. There's no place to drop it." -Ernest Hemingway
"There are two types of people: those who are easy to be with but also easy to be without, and who are difficult to be with, but impossible to be without." -Ernest Hemingway
"... a man doesn't want something reasonable, but practical." -Ernest Hemingway
"When the cold rains kept on and killed the spring, it was as though a young person had died for no reason." -Ernest Hemingway
"É bom que não tenhamos de tentar matar a lua, o sol ou as estrelas. Já é ruim viver no mar e ter de matar os nossos verdadeiros irmãos" -Ernest Hemingway
"Write drunk; edit sober." -Ernest Hemingway
"Vaguely he wanted a girl but he did not want to have to work to get her. He would have liked to have a girl but he did not want to have to spend a long time getting her. He did not want to get into the intrigue and the politics. He did not want to have to do any courting. He did not want to tell any more lies. It wasn't worth it." -Ernest Hemingway
"You have anything else eating you?' 'Just in general.' 'How?' 'Well I'm half crazy and you're half crazy and then we've got this crew of half saints and desperate men.' 'It isn't bad to be half saint and half desperate man." -Ernest Hemingway
"In writing there are many secrets too. Nothing is ever lost no matter how it seems at the time and what is left out will always show and make the strength of what is left in." -Ernest Hemingway
"You must be prepared to work always without an appaulse." -Ernest Hemingway
"Now you are getting confused in the head, he thought. You must keep your head clear. Keep your head clear and know how to suffer like a man. Or a fish, he thought." -Ernest Hemingway
"I wonder what your idea of heaven would be — A beautiful vacuum filled with wealthy monogamists. All powerful and members of the best families all drinking themselves to death. And hell would probably an ugly vacuum full of poor polygamists unable to obtain booze or with chronic stomach disorders that they called secret sorrows." -Ernest Hemingway
"I thought you'd be interested in these things as a government man. Ain't you mixed up in the prices of things we eat or something? Ain't that it? Making them more costly or something. Making the grits cost more and the grunts less?" -Ernest Hemingway
"I can write a short story in six words. For sale: baby shoes, never used" -Ernest Hemingway
"In the day time the street was dusty, but at night the dew settled the dust and the old man liked to sit late because he was deaf and now at night it was quiet and he felt the difference" -Ernest Hemingway
"I think you'll find that's very good wine,' he said. 'I know we don't get much of a chance to judge good wine in the States now, but I got this from a friend of mine that's in the business.''Oh, you always have someone in the trade,' Brett said.'This fellow raises the grapes. He's got thousands of acres of them''What's his name?' asked Brett. 'Veuve Cliquot?''No,' said the count. 'Mumms. He's a baron." -Ernest Hemingway
"Up the road, in his shack, the old man was sleeping again. He was still sleeping on his face and the boy was sitting by him watching him. The old man was dreaming about the lions." -Ernest Hemingway
"The melon of Castile is for self abuse. The melon of Valencia for eating." -Ernest Hemingway
"Look at the ugliness. Yet one has a feeling within one that blinds a man while he loves you. You, with that feeling, blind him, and blind yourself. Then, one day, for no reason, he sees you as ugly as you really are and he is not blind anymore and then you see yourself as ugly as he sees you and you lose your man and your feeling..." -Ernest Hemingway
"I ate the end of my piece of cheese and took a swallow of wine. Through the other noise I heard a cough, then came the chuh-chuh-chuh-chuh--then there was a flash, as when a blast-furnace door is swung open, and a roar that started white and went read and on and on in a rushing wind. I tired to breathe but my breath would not come and I felt myself rush bodily out of myself and out and out and out and all the time bodily in the wind. I went out swiftly, all of myself, and I knew I was dead and that it had all been a mistake to think you just died. Then I floated, and instead of going on I felt myself slide back. I breathed and I was back." -Ernest Hemingway
"The hardest thing in the world to do is to write straight honest prose on human beings." -Ernest Hemingway
"We're stronger in the places that we've been broken." -Ernest Hemingway
"إنه من السهل أن تكون مهزومًا . لم أكن أعلم إلى أي حد هو أمر سهل أن تكون مهزومًا . وما الذي هزمك ؟ لا شيء ، لقد هزمت لأنك مضيت بعيدًا . هزمت لأنك أردت المضي بعيدًا وقد فعلت ذلك" -Ernest Hemingway
"Ah,"" Anselmo took the cup, put his head back and let it run down his throat. He looked at Maria standing holding the bottle and winked at her, tears coming from both his eyes. ""That,"" he said. ""That."" Then he licked his lips. ""That is what kills the worm that haunts us." -Ernest Hemingway
"But I try not to borrow. First you borrow. Then you beg." -Ernest Hemingway
"They all had the politics of horse thieves. He believed in the Republic as a form of government but the Republic would have to get rid of all of that bunch of horse thieves that brought it to the pass it was in when the rebellion started.Was there ever a people whose leaders were as truly their enemies asthis one?" -Ernest Hemingway
"Night is always darker before the dawn and life is the same, the hard times will pass, every thing will get better and sun will shine brighter then ever." -Ernest Hemingway
"The world breaks every one and afterward many are strong at the broken places. But those that will not break it kills. It kills the very good and the very gentle and the very brave impartially. If you are none of these you can be sure it will kill you too but there will be no special hurry." -Ernest Hemingway
"If a man liked his friends' painting or writing, I thought it was probably like those people who like their families, and it was not polite to criticize them. Sometimes you can go quite a long time before you criticize families, your own or those by marriage, but it is easier with bad painters because they do not do terrible things and make intimate harm as families can do. With bad painters all you need to do is not look at them." -Ernest Hemingway
"Человека можно уничтожить, но его нельзя победить." -Ernest Hemingway
"Letter to Bill Smith, 1921Wish to hell I was going North when you men do. Doubt if I get up this summer-Jo Eezus (Jesus), sometimes I get to thinking about the Sturgeon and Black during the nocturnal and damn near go cuckoo. May have to give it up for something I want more but that does not keep me from loving it with everything I have. Dats de way tings are. Guy loves a couple of or three steams all his life and loves 'em better than anything in the world--falls in love with a girl and the goddamn streams can dry up for all he cares. Only the hell of it is that all that country has as bad a hold on me as ever--there's as much pull this spring as there ever was--and you know how it's always been--just don't think about it all daytime, but at night it comes and ruins me--and I can't go." -Ernest Hemingway
"That was what you did. You died. You did not know what it was about. They threw you in and told you the rules and the first time they caught you off base they killed you. Or they killed you gratuitously like Aymo. Or gave you the syphilis like Rinaldi. But they killed you in the end. You could count on that. Stay around and they would kill you." -Ernest Hemingway
"If I find any Krauts, can I kill them?' 'The Colonel said all but one,' Thomas Hudson said. 'Try to save a smart one.' 'I'll give them all IQ tests before I open up.' 'Give yourself one.' 'Mine's goddam low or I wouldn't be here,' Willie said, and he set out. He walked contemptuously and he watched the beach and the country ahead as carefully as a man could watch." -Ernest Hemingway
"To kill them teaches nothing,' Anselmo said. 'You cannot exterminate them because from their seed comes more with greater hatred. Prison is nothing. Prison only makes hatred. That all our enemies should learn." -Ernest Hemingway
"I want to pull my hair back high and smooth and make a big knot at the back that I can feel,"" she said. ""I want to have a kitty sit on my lap and purr when I stroke her." -Ernest Hemingway
"All you get in this life is a point of view." -Ernest Hemingway
"You bought me a beer,' the old man said. 'You are already a man." -Ernest Hemingway
"Maybe this time you will get these characters. You did not destroy their undersea boat but you were faintly instrumental in its destruction. If you can round up the crew, it will be extremely useful. Then why don't you care anything about anything? he asked himself. Why don't you think of them as murderers and have the righteous feelings that you should have? Why do you just pound and pound on after it like a riderless horse that is still in the race? Because we are all murderers, he told himself. We all are on both sides, if we are any good, and no good will come of any of it. But you have to do it. Sure, he said. But I don't have to be proud of it. I only have to do it well. I didn't hire out to like it. You did not even hire out, he told himself. That makes it even worse." -Ernest Hemingway
"They questioned us but they were polite because we had passports and money. I do not think they believed a word of the story and I thought it was silly but it was like a law-court. You did not want something reasonable, you wanted something technical and then stuck to it without explanations." -Ernest Hemingway
"Certainly there is no hunting like the hunting of man and those who have hunted armed men long enough and liked it, never really care for anything else thereafter." -Ernest Hemingway
"After the train started he had stood on the rear platform and watched the station and the water tower grow smaller and smaller and the rails crossed by the ties narrowed toward a point where the station and the water tower stood now minute and tiny in the steady clicking that was taking him away." -Ernest Hemingway
"Those damn .357's are hard to get now because draft-dodging FBI's have to use them to hunt down draft-dodgers,' the man said. 'But a man has to fire a shot sometime or he doesn't know how he is shooting." -Ernest Hemingway
"I think fairies are all awfully sad,' she said. 'Poor fairies.' 'This was sort of funny though,' David said. 'Because this worthless man that taught Tommy backgammon was explaining to Tommy what it meant to be a fairy and all about the Greeks and Damon and Pythias and David and Jonathan. You know, sort of like when they tell you about the fish and the roe and the milt and the bees fertilizing the pollen and all that at school and Tommy asked him if he'd ever read a book by Gide. What was it called, Mr. Davis? Not Corydon. That other one? With Oscar Wilde in it.' 'Si le grain ne meurt,' Roger said. 'It's a pretty dreadful book that Tommy took to read the boys in school. They couldn't understand it in French, of course, but Tommy used to translate it. Lots of it is awfully dull but it gets pretty dreadful when Mr. Gide gets to Africa.' 'I've read it,' the girl said. 'Oh fine,' David said. 'Then you know the sort of thing I mean. Well this man who'd taught Tommy backgammon and turned out to be a fairy was awfully surprised when Tommy spoke about this book but he was sort of pleased because now he didn't have to go through all the part about the bees and flowers of that business and he said, ‘I'm so glad you know,' or something like that and then Tommy said this to him exactly; I memorized it: ‘Mr. Edwards, I take only an academic interest in homosexuality. I thank you very much for teaching me backgammon and I must bid you good day." -Ernest Hemingway
"THE GAMBLER,THE NUN & THE RADIOHe was thinking well, a little too well" -Ernest Hemingway
"A man can be destroyed but notdefeated" -Ernest Hemingway
"I had hoped for something.""""Defeat?""""No. Something more.""""There isn't anything more. Except victory. It may be worse." -Ernest Hemingway
"The boy Paco had never known about any of this nor about what all these people would be doing on the next day and on other days to come. He had no idea how they really lived nor how they ended. He did not even realize they ended. He died, as the Spanish phrase has it, full of illusions. He had not had time in his life to lose any of them, nor even, at the end, to complete an act of contrition. He had not even had time to be disappointed in the Garbo picture which disappointed all Madrid for a week." -Ernest Hemingway
"There are whole villages in Extremadura in Spain that are built of rock that has very high grade wolfram ore and the stone fences of the peasant's field are all made of this ore. Yet the peasants are very poor. At this time it was so valuable that we were using DC-2's, transport planes such as fly from here to Miami, to fly it over from a field at Nam Yung in Free China to Kai Tak airport at Kowloon. From there it was shipped to the States. It was considered very scarce and of vital importance in our preparations for war" -Ernest Hemingway
"Don't worry about me talking,' he said. 'I have a living to make. You know in Africa no woman ever misses her lion and no white man ever bolts.' 'I bolted like a rabbit,' Macomber said. Now what in hell were you going to do about a man who talked like that, Wilson wondered." -Ernest Hemingway
"¿Y el perro?' he asked the chauffeur. 'Since a long time I haven't seen him.' They had passed these people now for several years. At one time the girl, whose letters he had read last night, had exclaimed about the shame of it each time they passed the lean-to. 'Why don't you do something about it, then?' he had asked her. 'Why do you always say things are so terrible and write so well about how terrible they are and never do anything about it?' This made the girl angry and she had stopped the car, gotten out, gone over to the lean-to and given the old woman twenty dollars and told her this was to help her find a better place to live and to buy something to eat. 'Si, señorita,' the old woman said. 'You are very amiable.' The next time they came by the couple were living in the same place and they waved happily. They had bought a dog. It was a white dog too, small and curly, probably not bred originally, Thomas Hudson thought, for the coal dust trade. 'What do you think has become of the dog?' Thomas Hudson asked the chauffeur. 'It probably died. They have nothing to eat.' 'We must get them another dog,' Thomas Hudson said." -Ernest Hemingway
"But, in yourself, you said that you would write about these people ... and for once it would be written by some one who knew what he was writing of. But he would never do it, because each day of not writing, of comfort, of being that which he despised, dulled his ability and softened his will to work so that, finally, he did no work at all." -Ernest Hemingway
"Si-apoi, se gândi batrânul, toata lumea omoara pe toata lumea într-un fel sau altul. Pescuitul ma omoara în aceeasi masura în care ma tine în viata." -Ernest Hemingway
"Իսկ ծերունին մշտապես մտածում էր ծովի՝ որպես կնոջ մասին, որը մեծ շնորհներ է պարգևում կամ մերժում, իսկ եթե իրեն թույլ է տալիս չմտածված կամ անբարյացակամ արարքներ, ճա՛րդ ինչ. այդպես է նրա բնույթը։" -Ernest Hemingway
"After he and this girl split up in Paris, Roger was on the town; really on the town. He joked about it and made fun of himself; but he was very angry inside for having made such a profound fool of himself and he took his talent for being faithful to people, which was the best one he had, next to the ones for painting and writing and his various good human and animal traits, and beat and belaboured that talent miserably. He was no good to anyone when he was on the town, especially to himself, and he knew it and hated it and he took pleasure in pulling down the pillars of the temple. It was a very good and strongly built temple and when it is constructed inside yourself it is not so easy to pull down. But he did as good a job as he could." -Ernest Hemingway
"Labi būtu, ja varētu nopirkt kādu drusciņu laimes. Ja būtu kāda vieta, kur to pārdod." -Ernest Hemingway
"Agua mala', the man said, 'you whore." -Ernest Hemingway
"I've never loved any one else the way I love you. I'm full of poetry now. Rot and poetry. Rotten poetry.''Stop it. Harry, why do you have to turn into a devil now?''I don't like to leave anything,' the man said. 'I don't like to leave things behind." -Ernest Hemingway
"The anger and the emptiness and the hate that had come with the let-down after the bridge, when he had looked up from where he had lain and crouching, seen Anselmo dead, were still all through him. In him, too, was despair from the sorrow that soldiers turn to hatred in order that they may continue to be soldiers. Now it was over he was lonely, detached and unrelated and he hated every one he saw." -Ernest Hemingway
"— Why did you do it?— I don't know. Here isn't always an explanation for everything. — Oh isn't there? I was brought up to think there was. — That's awfully nice.—  We have to go on and talk this way?— No.— That's a relief. Isn't it?" -Ernest Hemingway
"Con not, that thou be not conned." -Ernest Hemingway
"I would not kill even a Bishop. I would not kill a proprietor of any kind. I would make them work each day as we have worked in the fields and as we work in the mountains with the timber, all of the rest of their lives. So they would see what man is born to. That they should sleep where we sleep. That they should eat as we eat. But above all that they should work. Thus they would learn." -Ernest Hemingway
"To worry was as bad as to be afraid. It simply made things more difficult. He" -Ernest Hemingway
"A man is never lost at sea and it is a long island.' It" -Ernest Hemingway
"How many people will he feed, he thought. But are they worthy to eat him? No, of course not. There is no one worthy of eating him from the manner of his behaviour and his great dignity." -Ernest Hemingway
"Allow me to pay this small tribute to you who taught so much to those of us who wanted to be writers when we were young. I deplore the fact that you have not yet received a Nobel Prize, especially when it was given to so many who deserved it less, like me, who am only an adventurer." -Ernest Hemingway
"The aficionado, or lover of the bullfight, may be said, broadly, then, to be one who has this sense of the tragedy and ritual of the fight so that the minor aspects are not important except as they relate to the whole. Either you have this or you have not, just as, without implying any comparison, you have or have not an ear for music. Without an ear for music the principle impression of an auditor at a symphony concert might be of the motions of the players of the double bass, just as the spectator at the bullfight might remember only the obvious grotesqueness of a picador." -Ernest Hemingway
"I want us to be all mixed up. I don't want you to go away." -Ernest Hemingway
"Trying to write something of permanent value is a full-time job." -Ernest Hemingway
"That night at the mess I sat next to the priest and he was disappointed and suddenly hurt that I had not gone to the Abruzzi. He had written to his father that I was coming and they had made preparations. I myself felt as badly as he did and could not understand why I had not gone. It was what I had wanted to do and I tried to explain how one thing had led to another and finally he saw it and understood that I had really wanted to go and it was almost all right. I had drunk much wine and afterward coffee and Strega and I explained, winefully, how we did not do the things we wanted to do; we never did such things." -Ernest Hemingway
"Kilimanjaro is a snow-covered mountain 19,710 feet high, and is said to be the highest mountain in Africa. Its western summit is called the Masai 'Ngàje Ngài,' the House of God. Close to the western summit there is the dried and frozen carcass of a leopard. No one has explained what the leopard was seeking at that altitude." -Ernest Hemingway
"He no longer dreamed of storms, nor of women, nor of great occurrences, nor of great fish, nor fights, nor contests of strength, nor of his wife. He only dreamed of places now and of the lions on the beach." -Ernest Hemingway
"He thought of all the time in his life he had spent gambling." -Ernest Hemingway
"So, he said to himself, we did well to stop the quarrelling. He had never quarrelled much with this woman, while with the women that he loved he had quarrelled so much they had finally, always, with the corrosion of the quarrelling, killed what they had together. He had loved too much, demanded too much, and he wore it all out." -Ernest Hemingway
"He was eighteen feet from nose to tail,"" the fisherman who was measuring him called." -Ernest Hemingway
"Come aboard easy,' Thomas Hudson said to them. 'Keep away from the stern. We got a Kraut dying on the stern that I want to have die easy. What did you find?' 'Nothing,' Henry said. 'Absolutely nothing." -Ernest Hemingway
"His rage began to thin as he exaggerated more and more and spread his scorn and contempt so widely and unjustly that he could no longer believe in it himself" -Ernest Hemingway
"Happiness is often presented as being very dull but, he thought, lying awake, that is because dull people are sometimes very happy and intelligent people can and do go around making themselves and everyone else miserable. He had never found happiness dull." -Ernest Hemingway
"I didn't know how I could feel any worse. But you can all right. I can promise you that." -Ernest Hemingway
"I knew I must write a novel. But it seemed an impossible thing to do when I had been trying with great difficulty to write paragraphs that would be the distillation of what made a novel. It was necessary to write longer stories now as you would train for a longer race." -Ernest Hemingway
"I must hold his pain where it is, he thought. Mine does not matter. I can control mine. But his pain could drive him mad. After" -Ernest Hemingway
"He liked the works of his friends, which is beautiful as loyalty but can be disastrous as judgment." -Ernest Hemingway
"My working habits are simple: long periods of thinking, short periods of writing." -Ernest Hemingway
"La vida no es difícil de manejar cuando no tienes nada que perder." -Ernest Hemingway
"...never asks for whom the bell tolls;it tolls for you." -Ernest Hemingway
"Maybe I'll be able to later. I can do nearly everything later." -Ernest Hemingway
"I don't want any one else to touch you. I'm silly. I get furious if they touch you." -Ernest Hemingway
"I do not like anis,"" Pablo said.The acrid smell had carried across the table and he had picked out the one familiar component.""Good,"" said Robert Jordan. ""Because there is very little left.""""What drink is that?"" the gypsy asked.""A medicine,"" Robert Jordan said. ""Do you want to taste it?""""What is it for?""""For everything,"" Robert Jordan said. ""It cures everything. If you have anything wrong this will cure it." -Ernest Hemingway
"A girl came in the cafe and sat by herself at a table near the window. She was very pretty with a face fresh as a newly minted coin if they minted coins in smooth flesh with rain-freshened skin, and her hair was black as a crow's wing and cut sharply and diagonally across her cheek. I" -Ernest Hemingway
"perhaps it is clear why a writer should be interested in the constant, bullying, murderous, slovenly crime of war." -Ernest Hemingway
"Amit az ember leírt, az többé nem sanyargatja." -Ernest Hemingway
"You're with a lucky boat. Stay with them." -Ernest Hemingway
"But when I am with Maria I love her so that I feel, literally, as though I would die and I never believed in that nor thought that it could happen.So if your life trades its seventy years for seventy hours I have that value now and I am lucky enough to know it. And if there is not any such thing as a long time, nor the rest of your lives, nor from now on, but there is only now, why then now is the thing to praise and I am very happy with it." -Ernest Hemingway
"You dear, brave sweet." -Ernest Hemingway
"Kui kergeks küll muutub süda, kui tead, et kõik on läbi, kui tead, et oled võidetud." -Ernest Hemingway
"Show irony and pity." -Ernest Hemingway
"Can you imagine anyone making wine because it tastes like strawberries?" -Ernest Hemingway
"Kad divi cilvēki mīl viens otru, kad viņi ir laimīgi un jautri un viens vai abi rada kaut ko īsti labu, viņi pievelk cilvēkus, tieši tāpat kā spoža bāka naktī pievelk gājputnus." -Ernest Hemingway
"I wanted to try this new drink. That's all we do, isn't it - look at things and try new drinks?" -Ernest Hemingway
"The people you work with should be either fully trusted or not trusted at all, so one should decide, who deserves to be trusted" -Ernest Hemingway
"What is mashing?' 'It is one of the most heinous of crimes,' his father answered. Nick's imagination pictured the great tenor doing something strange, bizarre, and heinous with a potato masher to a beautiful lady who looked like the pictures of Anna Held on the inside of cigar boxes. He resolved, with considerable horror, that when he was old enough he would try mashing at least once." -Ernest Hemingway
"But I love thee as I love what I love most in the world and I love thee more." -Ernest Hemingway
"An ugly face,' he said to the glass. 'Did you ever see a more ugly face?''Yes,' said Arnaldo. 'Mine. Every morning when I shave.''We both ought to shave in the dark,' the Colonel told him and went out the door." -Ernest Hemingway
"The movies ruined everything. Like talking about something good. That was what had made the war unreal. Too much talking." -Ernest Hemingway
"To go down and up two hands-and-knee climbing ravines and then out into the moonlight and the long, too-steep shoulder of mountain that you climbed one foot up to the other, one foot after the other, one stride at a time, leaning forward against the grade and the altitude, dead tired and gun weary, single file in the moonlight across the slope, on up and to the top where it was easy, the country spread in the moonlight, then up and down and on, through the small hills, tired but now in sight of the fires and" -Ernest Hemingway
"If the boy was here he would wet the coils of line, he thought. Yes. If the boy were here. If the boy were here." -Ernest Hemingway
"There was a time, not so long ago, when the stupid and uneducated aspired to be thought intelligent and cultured people doing their best to feign stupidity." -Ernest Hemingway
"Each time he fought he fought to kill and the other bulls were not afraid of him because they came of good blood and were not afraid." -Ernest Hemingway
"الرذيلة شيءٌ مذهِل" -Ernest Hemingway
"Ein Klassiker ist ein Buch, das die Leute loben, aber nicht lesen." -Ernest Hemingway
"It was considered a virtue not to talk unnecessarily at sea and the old man had always considered it so and respected it. But" -Ernest Hemingway
"- Ali čovjek nije stvoren za poraze - reče. - Čovjek može propasti ali ne može biti poražen." -Ernest Hemingway
"Recordó la vez que pescó a la hembra de una pareja de peces espada. El macho siempre deja que la hembra coma primero, y ella, al morder el anzuelo, se debatió en una batalla salvaje, desesperada y llena de pánico que pronto la agotó. Todo el tiempo el macho se quedó con ella, cruzando el sedal y haciendo círculos en torno de su pareja en la superficie. Se hallaba tan próximo que el viejo había tenido temor de que cortara la cuerda con la cola, que era afilada como guadaña y casi de esa forma y tamaño. El viejo le metió el garfio, le dio golpes, la prendió de la espada, de borde como lija y la aporreó en la punta de la cabeza hasta que su color se volvió casi como el del respaldo de un espejo, y entonces, con la ayuda del muchacho, la elevó para ponerla a bordo. El macho se quedó a un costado del bote. Después, cuando el viejo limpiaba los cordeles y preparaba el arpón, el macho saltó muy alto en el aire, junto al bote, para ver dónde había quedado su pareja, y finalmente se sumergió en lo más profundo, con las alas azul-rojizas, que eran sus aletas pectorales, desplegadas a lo ancho y con todas las franjas del mismo color a la vista. ""Era hermoso-recordó el viejo- y se quedó hasta el final""." -Ernest Hemingway
"As the Sun rises,so shall the sadness disappear.It's like the mist" -Ernest Hemingway
"But even if I never bought any more clothing ever,"" I said, ""I wouldn't have enough money to buy the Picassos that I want." -Ernest Hemingway
"Madrid es la mas española de todas las ciudades de España.Cuando uno ha podido tener el Prado y al mismo tiempo El Escorial situado a dos horas al norte y Toledo al sur y un hermoso camino a Avila y otro bello camino a Segovia, que no esta lejos de la Granja, se siente dominado por la desesperacion al pensar que un dia habrá de morir y dejar todo aquello." -Ernest Hemingway
"i looked at him and his marked-for-death look and i thought, you con man conning me with your con. i've seen a battalion in the dust on the road, a third of them for"" death or worse and no special marks on them, the dust for all, and you and your marked-for-death look, you con man, making a living out of your death. now you will con me. con not, that thou be not conned. death was not conning with him. it was coming all right." -Ernest Hemingway
"Don't be snotty too soon. And then don't be snotty at all." -Ernest Hemingway
"He was probably a coward,' she said. 'He knew a great deal about cowards but nothing about the brave. The brave dies perhaps two thousand deaths if he's intelligent. He simply doesn't mention them.' 'I don't know. It's hard to see inside the head of the brave.' 'Yes. That's how they keep that way." -Ernest Hemingway
"We are all broken, that is how the light gets in." -Ernest Hemingway
"His talent was as natural as the pattern that was made by the dust on a butterfly swings. at one time he understood it no more than the butterfly did and he did not know when it was brushed or marred. later he became conscious of his damaged wings and of their construction and he learned to think and could not fly any more because the love of flight was gone and he could only remember when it had been effortless." -Ernest Hemingway
"Are you married?"" ""No, but I hope to be."" ""The more of a fool you are,"" he said. He seemed very angry. ""A man must not marry. ""Why, Signor Maggiore?""""Don't call me 'Signor Maggiore.'""""Why must not a man marry?""""He cannot marry. He cannot marry,"" he said angrily. ""If he is to lose everything, he should not place himself in a position to lose that. He should not place himself in a position to lose. He should find things he cannot lose.""He spoke very angrily and bitterly, and looked straight ahead while he talked. ""But why should he necessarily lose it?""""He'll lose it." -Ernest Hemingway
"How are you? You old love-house of always." -Ernest Hemingway
"He wants to in the whirl of his own weakness. But the river is coming. By being forced to change, he'll be powerful in change." -Ernest Hemingway
"Maybe we better knock off talking,' Roger said. 'I'm liable to start thinking about the novel. Tommy, why is it fun to paint well and hell to write well? I never painted well. But it was fun even the way I painted.' 'I don't know,' Thomas Hudson said. 'Maybe in painting the tradition and the line are clearer and there are more people helping you. Even when you break from the straight line of great painting, it is always there to help you.' 'I think another thing is that better people do it,' Roger said. 'If I were a good enough guy maybe I could have been a good painter. Maybe I'm just enough of a son of a bitch to be a good writer." -Ernest Hemingway
"THE GAMBLER,THE NUN & THE RADIOIf I live long enough the luck will change." -Ernest Hemingway
"By then I knew that everything good and bad left an emptiness when it stopped. But if it was bad, the emptiness filled up by itself. If it was good you could only fill it by finding something better." -Ernest Hemingway
"He had lost the capacity of personal suffering, or he thought he had, and only could be hurt truly by what happened to others. He believed this, wrongly of course since he did not know then how one's capacities can change, nor how the other could change, and it was a comfortable belief." -Ernest Hemingway
"When spring came, even the false spring, there were no problems except where to be happiest. The only thing that could spoil a day was people and if you could keep from making engagements, each day had no limits. People were always the limiters of happiness" -Ernest Hemingway
"I wondered...if there should be anything wrong with Sen. Joe McCarthy (Republican) of Wisconsin which a .577 solid would not cure." -Ernest Hemingway
"and I felt the death loneliness that comes at the end of every day that is wasted in your life" -Ernest Hemingway
"It is why I bother with you,"" he said. ""I think you write absolutely truly and that is very rare. So I would like you to know some things." -Ernest Hemingway
"He had tried a few practice matches with his left hand. But his left hand had always been a traitor and would not do what he called on it to do and he did not trust it." -Ernest Hemingway
"One cat just leads to another." -Ernest Hemingway
"I drink to make people more interesting,"" Ernest Hemingway." -Ernest Hemingway
"all good things come from what is inside you." -Ernest Hemingway
"If we win here we will win everywhere. The world is a fine place and worth the fighting for and I hate very much to leave it. And you had a lot of luck, he told himself, to have had such a good life. You've had just as good a life as grandfather's though not as long. You've had as good a life as any one because of these last days. You do not want to complain when you have been so lucky. I wish there was some way to pass on what I've learned" -Ernest Hemingway
"She had the lovely high cheekbones for arrogance." -Ernest Hemingway
"He had already learned there was only one day at a time and that it was always the day you were in. It would be today until it was tonight and tomorrow would be today again. This was the main thing he had learned so far." -Ernest Hemingway
"We never talked for very long at a time. It was simply the pleasure of discovering what we each felt." -Ernest Hemingway
"To drink is nothing. It's important to be drunk." -Ernest Hemingway
"Just as she goes and watch for that no-good Minerva. Keep well inside of that and outside the sand-spits." -Ernest Hemingway
"I suppose it is possible to live as full a life in seventy hours as in seventy years; granted that your life has been full up to the time that the seventy hours start and that you have reached a certain age." -Ernest Hemingway
"Durante el día había deseado muchas veces no haber traicionado al elefante y por la tarde recordó que había deseado no haberlo visto nunca. Despierto a la luz de la luna, comprendió que esto no era cierto" -Ernest Hemingway
"What you don't write is often more important than what you do" -Ernest Hemingway
"That has nothing to do with the story." -Ernest Hemingway
"the man who had taught me to distrust adjectives as i would later learn to distrust certain people in certain situations;" -Ernest Hemingway
"I don't think if people gambled for what they could afford it would be very interesting." -Ernest Hemingway
"He had a face that reminded me of a frog, not a bullfrog but just any frog, and Paris was too big a puddle for him." -Ernest Hemingway
"No. Listen. Take the wax from thy hairy ears. Listen well. I command." -Ernest Hemingway
"But it is good that we do not have to try to kill the sun or the moon or the stars. It is enough to live on the sea and kill our true brothers." -Ernest Hemingway
"I ordered another rum St. James and I watched the girl whenever I looked up, or when I sharpened the pencil with a pencil sharpener with the shavings curling into the saucer under my drink." -Ernest Hemingway
"Fish,' the old man said. 'Fish, you are going to have to die anyway. Do you have to kill me too?" -Ernest Hemingway
"He got up from the floor and reached for the whisky bottle. Nick held out his glass. His eyes fixed on it while Bill poured. Bill poured the glass half full of whisky. 'Put in your own water,' he said. 'There's just one more shot.' 'Got any more?' Nick asked. 'There's plenty more but dad only likes me to drink what's open.' 'Sure,' said Nick. 'He says opening bottles is what makes drunkards,' Bill explained. 'That's right,' said Nick. He was impressed. He had never thought of that before. He had always thought it was solitary drinking that made drunkards." -Ernest Hemingway
"You have youth, confidence and a job. You have everything." -Ernest Hemingway
"I sat outside in the hall. Everything was gone inside of me. I did not think. I could not think. I knew she was going to die and I prayed that she would not. Don't let her die. Oh, God, please don't let her die. I'll do anything for you if you won't let her die. Please, please, please dear God, don't let her die. . . . You took the baby but don't let her die. That was all right but don't let her die. Please, please, dear God, don't let her die." -Ernest Hemingway
"But should a man carry out impossible orders knowing what they lead to?" -Ernest Hemingway
"«Նրա ճակատագիրն էր՝ մնալ օվկիանոսի խավար խորքերում, ամեն տեսակ ծուղակներից, խայծերից ու մարդկային նենգությունից հեռու։ Իմ ճակատագիրն էր՝ միայնակ գնալ նրա ետևից ու գտնել նրան այնտեղ, որտեղ ո՛չ մի մարդ չէր թափանցել, աշխարհում ո՛չ մի մարդ։ Հիմա՝ ուղիղ կեսօրից, մենք կապված ենք իրար։ Եվ ո՛չ նրան օգնող կա, ո՛չ ինձ»:" -Ernest Hemingway
"It looks almost as blue in there as it is out here. What makes the Gulf water so blue?' 'It's a different density of water. It's an altogether different type of water.' 'The depth makes it darker, though.' 'Only when you look down into it. Sometimes the plankton in it make it almost purple.' 'Why?' 'Because they add red to the blue I think. I know they call the Red Sea red because the plankton make it look really red. They have terrific concentrations of them there." -Ernest Hemingway
"I would like to have it for my whole life. You will, the other part of him said. You will. You have it _now_ and that is all your whole life is; now." -Ernest Hemingway
"I remember the smell of the pines and the sleeping on the mattresses of beech leaves in the woodcutters' huts and the skiing through the forest following the tracks of hares and of foxes. In the high mountains above the tree line I remember following the track of a fox until I came in sight of him and watching him stand with his forefoot raised and then go on carefully to stop and then pounce, and the whiteness and the clutter of a ptarmigan bursting out of the snow and flying away and over the ridge." -Ernest Hemingway
"in those days, the Corrected Hydrographic Sailing Directions for the Mediterranean, say, or the tables in Brown's Nautical Almanac. Under the charm of these rich I was as trusting and as stupid as a bird dog who wants to go out with any man with a gun, or a trained pig" -Ernest Hemingway
"-Every day brings some disappointment.-No, every day brings new and beautiful illusion.But, everything that's not real in one illusion you can chop it off, like cutting with the blade of a razor." -Ernest Hemingway
"We're all broken that's how the light gets in." -Ernest Hemingway
"Because, just then, death had come and rested its head on the foot of the cot and he could smell its breath." -Ernest Hemingway
"He had had his life and it was over and then he went on living it again with different people and more money, with the best of the same places, and some new ones.You kept from thinking and it was all marvellous. You were equipped with good insides so that you did not go to pieces that way, the way most of them had, and you made an attitude that you cared nothing for the work you used to do, now that you could no longer do it." -Ernest Hemingway
"That's easy. I can always borrow two dollars and a half.' 'I think perhaps I can too. But I try not to borrow. First you borrow. Then you beg." -Ernest Hemingway
"They're funny people,' Thomas Hudson said. 'They're all brave and some of them are so damned admirable. Then they have mean ones like this." -Ernest Hemingway
"looked at the tires carefully, looking for cuts or stone bruises. Everything seemed in good condition. It evidently made no difference whether I was there to look after things or not." -Ernest Hemingway
"While I had been angry I had demoted him from Scott to Fitzgerald" -Ernest Hemingway
"Why we were born, if not to help each other? So, nothing to listen and nothing to speak is a very cold help." -Ernest Hemingway
"I wanted it so much,' she said. ‘I don't know why I wanted it so much. I wanted that poor kitty. It isn't anyfun to be a poor kitty out in the rain." -Ernest Hemingway
"But none of these scars were fresh,They were as old as erosions in a fishless desert." -Ernest Hemingway
"Давайте забудем про войну.– Это не так просто. В таком месте трудно забыть про войну.– А все-таки забудем.– Хорошо.Мы посмотрели друг на друга в темноте. Она мне показалась очень красивой, и я взял ее за руку. Она не отняла руки, и я потянулся и обнял ее за талию.– Не надо, – сказала она. Я не отпускал ее.– Почему?– Не надо.– Надо, – сказал я. – Так хорошо.Я наклонился в темноте, чтобы поцеловать ее, и что-то обожгло меня коротко и остро. Она сильно ударила меня по лицу. Удар пришелся по глазам и переносице, и на глазах у меня выступили слезы.– Простите меня, – сказала она.Я почувствовал за собой некоторое преимущество.– Вы поступили правильно.– Нет, вы меня, пожалуйста, простите, – сказала она. – Но это так противно получилось – сестра с офицером в выходной вечер. Я не хотела сделать вам больно. Вам больно?Она смотрела на меня в темноте. Я был зол и в то же время испытывал уверенность, зная все наперед, точно ходы в шахматной партии." -Ernest Hemingway
"I pointed to the canvas where the rain was making the finest sound that we, who live much outside of houses, ever hear." -Ernest Hemingway
"The fish is calm and steady. I will eat it all and then I will be ready." -Ernest Hemingway
"All my life the early sun has hurt my eyes, he thought. Yet they are still good. In the evening I can look straight into it without getting the blackness. It has more force in the evening too. But in the morning it is painful." -Ernest Hemingway
"Together they made the bed with me in it. That was new to me and an admirable proceeding." -Ernest Hemingway
"But man is not made for defeat. A man can be destroyed but not defeated.'- Santiago" -Ernest Hemingway
"that beautiful detachment and devotion to stern justice of men dealing in death without being in any danger of it." -Ernest Hemingway
"He started to talk about my writing and I stopped listening. It made me feel sick for people to talk about my writing to my face, and I looked at him and his marked-for-death look and I thought, you con man conning me with your con. I've seen a battalion in the dust on the road, a third of them for death or worse and no special marks on them, the dust for all, and you and your marked for death look, you con man, making a living out of your death. Now you will con me. Con not, that thou be not conned. Death was not conning with him. It was coming all right." -Ernest Hemingway
"Tom,' Ara said. 'All a man has is pride. Sometimes you have it so much it is a sin. We have all done things for pride that we knew were Impossible. We didn't care. But a man must implement his pride with intelligence and care. Now that you have ceased to be careful of yourself I must ask you to be, please. For us and for the ship." -Ernest Hemingway
"Get black on white." -Ernest Hemingway
"So, Robert Wilson thought to himself, she is giving him a ride, isn't she? Or do you suppose that's her idea of putting up a good show? How should a woman act when she discovers her husband is a bloody coward? She's damn cruel but they're all cruel. They govern, of course, and to govern one has to be cruel sometimes. Still, I've seen enough of their damn terrorism. 'Have some more eland,' he said to her politely." -Ernest Hemingway
"The one who is doing his work and getting satisfaction from it is not the one the poverty bothers." -Ernest Hemingway
"لو كنت ولدى لخرجتُ بك وخاطرت ولكنك ابن أبيك وابن أمك وأنت فى قارب محظوظ" -Ernest Hemingway
"It is a curious fact of literary history that a story which describes the loss of a gigantic prize provided the author with the greatest prize of his career. —" -Ernest Hemingway
"[...] and Mary with her wonderful memory for forgetting was happy too and without any problems. She could forget in the loveliest and most complete way of anyone I ever knew. She could carry a fight overnight but at the end of week she could forget it completely and truly. She had a built-in selective memory and it was not built entirely in her favor. She forgave herself in her memory and she forgave you too. She was a very strange girl and I loved her very much." -Ernest Hemingway
"What simplicity,' the scarred-faced brother, who was called Andrés, said. 'And how do you explode them?" -Ernest Hemingway
"Thomas Hudson had gone in there to fill water, the dogs from the shacks were huddled with the pigs that had burrowed in the mud and dogs and pigs both were gray from the solid blanket of mosquitoes that covered them. It was a wonderful key when the east wind blew day and night and you could walk two days with a gun and be in good country. It was country as unspoiled as when Columbus came to this coast. Then, when the wind dropped, the mosquitoes came in clouds from the marshes. To say they came in clouds, he thought, is not a metaphor. They truly came in clouds and they could bleed a man to death. The people we are searching for would not have stopped in Romano. Not with this calm. They must have gone further up the coast." -Ernest Hemingway
"Do not worry. You have always written before and you will write now. All you have to do is write one true sentence. Write the truest sentence that you know." -Ernest Hemingway
"Sometimes all niceness gone and glad to get out on the street but always another day starting and then another night." -Ernest Hemingway
"we are all bitched from the start" -Ernest Hemingway
"Agrada-me pensar que não temos de matar as estrelas." -Ernest Hemingway
"He remembered the time hi fished the female of a pair of swordfish. The male always lets the female eat first, and she, by biting the hook, struggled in a wild, desperate and panicky battle that soon exhausted her. All the time the male stayed with her, crossing the line and circling her partner on the surface. He was so close that the old man had been afraid that he would cut the rope with his tail, which was sharpened like a scythe and almost of that shape and size. The old man put the hook in, hit her, caught the sword, edge like sandpaper and pounded on the tip of the head until her color became almost like the back of a mirror, and then, with the boy's help, lifted her up to put her on board. The male stayed on the side of the boat. Later, when the old man cleaned the strings and prepared the harpoon, the male jumped very high in the air, next to the boat, to see where his partner where, and finally he plunged into the deepest, with blue-reddish wings, that were his pectoral fins, spread wide and with all stripes of the same color in sight. ""He was beautiful,"" recalled the old man, ""and he stayed until the end." -Ernest Hemingway
"Qué va,"" the boy said. ""There are many good fisherman and some great ones. But there is only you." -Ernest Hemingway
"He thought a little about the company that he would like to have. No, he thought, when everything you do, you do too long, and do too late, you can't expect to find the people still there. The people all are gone." -Ernest Hemingway
"They are good,"" he said. ""They play and make jokes and love one another. They are our brothers like the flying fish." -Ernest Hemingway
"Os nomes penetram-nos até aos ossos." -Ernest Hemingway
"That moron,' said Harvey. Cohn came up to our table.'Hello you bums,' he said.'Hello, Robert,' Harvey said. 'I was just telling Jake here that you're a moron." -Ernest Hemingway
"To understand is to forgive. That's not true. Forgiveness has been exaggerated." -Ernest Hemingway
"Then he was sorry for the great fish that had nothing to eat and his determination to kill him never relaxed in his sorrow for him. How many people will he feed, he thought. But are they worthy to eat him? No, of course not. There is no one worthy of eating him from the manner of his behaviour and his great dignity." -Ernest Hemingway
"Es nebiju radīts, lai domātu. Es biju radīts, lai ēstu." -Ernest Hemingway
"The one who is doing the work and getting satisfaction from it is not the one poverty is hard on. Heminway talking about his wife Hadley" -Ernest Hemingway
"Pop was her ideal of how a man should be, brave, gentle, comic, never losing his temper, never bragging, never complaining except in a joke, tolerant, understanding, intelligent, drinking a little too much as a good man should, and, to her eyes, very handsome." -Ernest Hemingway
"Desconfio de todas as pessoas francas e simples, principalmente quando suas histórias são coerentes." -Ernest Hemingway
"After the New Yorker piece I decided that I would never give another interview to anyone on any subject and that I would keep away from all places where I would be likely to be interviewed. If you say nothing it is difficult for someone to get it wrong." -Ernest Hemingway
"Ma arvasin, et olin juba kõige eest maksnud. Mitte nii nagu naised, kes aina maksavad ja maksavad ja maksavad. Ei mingit tasu ja karistuse põhimõtet. Lihtne väärtuste vahetus. Sa annad midagi ära ja saad midagi vastu. Või sa töötad millegi eest. Nii või teisiti maksad sa kõige eest, mis midagi väärt on. Olin lunastanud endale elus palju asju, mis mulle meeldisid, ja sellepärast olin elust mõnu tundnud. Asjade eest, mis sulle rõõmu valmistavad, võib maksta mitmeti - teadmiste, kogemuste, riski või rahaga. Et elust mõnu tunda, selleks tuleb õppida oma raha eest midagi täisväärtuslikku saama ja seda teadlikult nautima. Üldiselt on see võimalik. Maailm on hea kaubamaja." -Ernest Hemingway
"There is no way for you to get what you need and you will never have what you want again. But there are various palliative measures you should take. Go ahead. Take one." -Ernest Hemingway
"You have killed?"" Robert Jordan asked. ""Yes. Several times. But not with pleasure. To me it is a sin to kill a man. Even fascists whom we must kill."" ""Yet you have killed."" ""Yes. And will again. But if I live later, I will try to live in such a way, doing no harm to any one, that it will be forgiven."" ""By whom?"" ""Who knows? Since we do not have God here anymore, who forgives, I do not know." -Ernest Hemingway
"He went out and I heard him laughing in the hall. I heard some" -Ernest Hemingway
"I'm minding my own business, sir! How many people do you think actually do that by choice? Does it bother you? Of course it bothers you. A clear conscience is always supposed to bother a cripple-minded idiot like you" -Ernest Hemingway
"You learn in this war if you listen." -Ernest Hemingway
"I'll say just what you wish and I'll do what you wish and then you will never want any other girls, will you?' She looked at me very happily. 'I'll do what you want and say what you want and then I'll be a great success, won't I?' 'Yes." -Ernest Hemingway
"No, he thought, when everything you do, you do too long, and do too late, you can't expect to find the people still there. The people all are gone. The party's over and you are with your hostess now." -Ernest Hemingway
"You know. Don't pretend you don't know." -Ernest Hemingway
"A részeg ember aljasabb, mint akármelyik gonosztevő. A tolvaj, ha éppen nem lop, olyan ember, mint mindenki más. A zsaroló legalább otthon nem folytatja mesterségét. A gyilkos megmossa kezét, amikor hazatér. De milyen a részeg ember? Büdös, és berókáz a saját ágyába, és a szeszben eláznak a legfontosabb szervei." -Ernest Hemingway
"When we came back to Paris it was clear and cold and lovely. The city had accommodated itself to winter, there was good wood for sale at the wood and coal place across our street, and there were braziers outside of many of the good cafés so that you could keep warm on the terraces. Our own apartment was warm and cheerful. We burned boulets which were molded, egg-shaped lumps of coal dust, on the wood fire, and on the streets the winter light was beautiful. Now you were accustomed to see the bare trees against the sky and you walked on the fresh-washed gravel paths through the Luxembourg gardens in the clear sharp wind. The trees were beautiful without their leaves when you were reconciled to them, and the winter winds blew across the surfaces of the ponds and the fountains were blowing in the bright light. All the distances were short now since we had been in the mountains. Because of the change in altitude I did not notice the grade of the hills except with pleasure, and the climb up to the top floor of the hotel where I worked, in a room that looked across all the roofs and the chimneys of the high hill of the quarter, was a pleasure. The fireplace drew well in the room and it was warm and pleasant to work." -Ernest Hemingway
"I learned to understand Cézanne much better and to see truly how he made landscapes when I was hungry. I used to wonder if he were hungry too when he painted; but I thought possibly it was only that he had forgotten to eat." -Ernest Hemingway
"How can there be solidarity of workers with fools like you?" -Ernest Hemingway
"In Europe then we thought of wine as something as healthy and normal as food and also as a great giver of happiness and well-being and delight. drinking wine was not a snobbism nor a sign of sophistication nor a cult; it was as natural as eating and to me as necessary, and I would not have thought of eating a meal without drinking either wine or cider or beer." -Ernest Hemingway
"If a husband works until six he gets only a little drunk on the way home and does not waste too much. If he works only until five he is drunk every night and one has no money. It is the wife of the working man who suffers from this shortening of hours." -Ernest Hemingway
"الكل يخاف. ولكن المُصارع يستطيع أن يتحكم في خوفه حتى يتمكن من السيطرة على الثور. ولولا الخوف لتحول كل ماسح أحذية في إسبانيا إلى مصارع للثيران." -Ernest Hemingway
"You see, Mr. Barnes, it is because I have lived very much that now I can enjoy everything so well. Don't you find it like that?""""Yes. Absolutely.""""I know,"" said the count. ""That is the secret. You must get to know the values.""""Doesn't anything ever happen to your values?"" Brett asked.""No. Not any more.""""Never fall in love?""""Always,"" said the count. ""I am always in love.""""What does that do to your values?""""That, too, has got a place in my values.""""You haven't any values. You're dead, that's all.""""No, my dear. You're not right. I'm not dead at all." -Ernest Hemingway
"We must all be cut out for what we do, he thought. However you make your living is where your talent lies." -Ernest Hemingway
"Férfit meg szabad ölni. Megátalkodni is szabad. De megsérteni nem." -Ernest Hemingway
"Los hombres no están hechos para la derrota. Se les puede destruir, pero no derrotar." -Ernest Hemingway
"The good, brave, worthless son of a bitch, Thomas Hudson thought. Old Willie. He made up my mind for me when I was starting to put things off. I would rather have a good Marine, even a ruined Marine, than anything in the world when there are chips down. And we have chips down now. Good luck, Mr. Willie, he thought. And don't drop dead." -Ernest Hemingway
"What the hell." -Ernest Hemingway
"Dentuso, he thought. Bad luck to your mother." -Ernest Hemingway
"When you are twenty-five and are a natural heavyweight, missing a meal makes you very hungry. But it also sharpens all of your perceptions, and I found that many of the people I wrote about had very strong appetites and a great taste and desire for food, and most of them were looking forward to having a drink." -Ernest Hemingway
"People who interfered in your life always did it for your own good and I figured it out finally that what they wanted was for you to conform completely and never differ from some accepted surface standard and then dissipate the way traveling salesmen would at a convention in every stupid and boreing way there was." -Ernest Hemingway
"I suppose you start to destroy it for fear you will lose it, or that it will take too great a hold on you, or in case it shouldn't be true, but it is not very good to do." -Ernest Hemingway
"Ara went down and Thomas Hudson was alone with the night and the sea and he still rode it like a horse going downhill too fast across broken country." -Ernest Hemingway
"El secreto de la sabiduría, del poder y del conocimiento es la humildad" -Ernest Hemingway
"Слънцето сушеше мокрите лица на къщите срещу прозореца ми." -Ernest Hemingway
"It must be very nice to have a daughter.""""You cannot know how nice it is. It is like a second wife. My wife knows now all I think, all I say, all I believe, all I can do, all that I cannot do and cannot be. But now there is always someone you do not know, who does not know you, who loves you in ignorance and is strange to you both. Some one very attractive that is yours and not yours..." -Ernest Hemingway
"There are always mystical countries that are a part of one's childhood. Those we remember and visit sometimes when we are asleep and dreaming. They are as lovely at night as they were when we were children. If you ever go back to see them they are not there. But they are as fine in the night as they ever were if you have the luck to dream of them." -Ernest Hemingway
"But in the Gulf you got time. And I'm figuring all the time. I've got to think right all the time. I can't make a mistake. Not a mistake. Not once. Well, I got something to think about now all right. Something to do and something to think about besides wondering what the hell's going to happen. Besides wondering what's going to happen to the whole damn thing." -Ernest Hemingway
"Certi altri posti non erano così buoni, ma forse eravamo noi a non essere così buoni quando eravamo là." -Ernest Hemingway
"I've been very happy with women. Desperately happy. Unbearably happy. So happy that I could not believe it; that it was like being drunk or crazy. But never as happy as with my children" -Ernest Hemingway
"He can't have gone,' he said. 'Christ knows he can't have gone. He's making a turn. Maybe he has been hooked before and he remembers something of it." -Ernest Hemingway
"Pray for anything you like, if it is for the good of us all.-I pray for beer, for meat and for a new wife with hard hands. You can share the wife." -Ernest Hemingway
"Isn't it pretty to think so?" -Ernest Hemingway
"The further you go in writing the more alone you are. Most of your best and oldest friends die. Others move away. You do not see them except rarely, but you write and have much the same contact with them as though you were together at the café in the old days. You exchange comic, cheerfully obscene and irresponsible letters, and it is almost as good as talking. But you are more alone because that is how you must work and the time to work is shorter all the time and if you waste it you feel you have committed a sin for which there is no forgiveness." -Ernest Hemingway
"Finally the bull charged, the horse leaders ran for the barrera, the picador hit too far back, and the bull got under the horse, lifted him, threw him onto his back.Zurito watched. The monos, in their red shirts, running out to drag the picador clear. The picador, now on his feet, swearing and flopping his arms. Manuel and Hernandez standing ready with their capes. And the bull, the great, black bull, with a horse on his back, hooves dangling, the bridle caught in the horns. Black bull with a horse on his back, staggering short-legged, then arching his neck and lifting, thrusting, charging to slide the horse off, horse sliding down. Then the bull into a lunging charge at the cape Manuel spread for him." -Ernest Hemingway
"Tolstoi made the writing of Stephen Crane on the Civil War seem like the brilliant imagining of a sick boy who had never seen war but had only read the battles and chronicles and seen the Brady" -Ernest Hemingway
"I think you have more fun as a human being even though it is much more painful." -Ernest Hemingway
"God knows I had not wanted to fall in love with her. I had not wanted to fall in love with any one. But God knows I had." -Ernest Hemingway
"It is not bad,' he said. 'And pain does not matter to a man." -Ernest Hemingway
"Writing. It is like no other light. A very clear and hollow light." -Ernest Hemingway
"If I started to write elaborately, or like someone introducing or presenting something, I found that I could cut that scrollwork or ornament out and throw it away and start with the first true simple declarative sentence I had written. Up in that room I decided that I would write one story about each thing that I knew about. I was trying to do this all the time I was writing, and it was good and severe discipline." -Ernest Hemingway
"Por entonces, ya había descubierto que todo, lo bueno y lo malo, deja un vacío cuando se interrumpe. Pero si se trata de algo malo, el vacío va llenándose por sí solo. Mientras que el vacío de algo bueno solo puede llenarse descubriendo algo mejor." -Ernest Hemingway
"THE GAMBLER,THE NUN,& THE RADIOTonight, sent by the police, they come to serenade me.He laughed, then tapped his stomach.-I cannot laugh yet. As musicians they are fatal" -Ernest Hemingway
"Siempre me han avergonzado las palabras 'sagrado', 'glorioso' y 'sacrificio', y la expresión 'en vano'. Las habíamos oído, a veces bajo la lluvia, casi inaudibles, de modo que solo entendíamos esas palabras pronunciadas a gritos, y las habíamos leído en las proclamas de los carteles, pegados sobre otras proclamas; hacía mucho tiempo que no veía nada sagrado, las cosas que antes eran gloriosas ahora carecían de gloria y los sacrificios eran como los de los mataderos de Chicago, aunque la carne solo servía para enterrarla. Había muchas palabras que no soportaba oír y al final solo los nombres de los sitios conservaban su dignidad. Las palabras abstractas como la gloria, el honor, el valor o lo sacrosanto resultaban obscenas al lado de los nombres concretos de los pueblos." -Ernest Hemingway
"I said, 'Who killed him?' and he said 'I don't know who killed him, but he's dead all right,' and it was dark and there was water standing in the street and no lights or windows broke and boats all up in the town and trees blown down and everything all blown and I got a skiff and went out and found my boat where I had her inside Mango Key and she was right only she was full of water." -Ernest Hemingway
"There never was another part of Paris that he loved like that," -Ernest Hemingway
"ليس هذا أوان التفكير فيما ليس معك ، فكر فيما يمكنك أن تفعله بما هو موجود لديك" -Ernest Hemingway
"...he said it now in a complete embracing of all that would not be," -Ernest Hemingway
"...he knew no man wasever alone on the sea." -Ernest Hemingway
"I'm afraid of the rain because sometimes I see me dead in it." -Ernest Hemingway
"Különben ne kicsinyeld le azt az érzést, hogy szeretsz valakit. Kevés emberrel esett meg az a szerencse, hogy megszeretett valakit. Te eddig nem ismerted a szerelmet, most meg az öledbe hullt. Mindegy, hogy holnapig vagy holnaputánig, vagy életed végéig tart ez az érzés Maríával, mindenképp a legnagyobb dolog, ami az emberrel történhetik. Mindig lesznek emberek, akik azt hiszik, hogy nincs szerelem, mert ők nem ismerték meg." -Ernest Hemingway
"They had a sound basis of union. Margot was too beautiful for Macomber to divorce her and Macomber had too much money for Margot ever to leave him." -Ernest Hemingway
"—Pero el hombre no está hecho para la derrota —dijo—. Un hombre puede ser destruido, pero no derrotado." -Ernest Hemingway
"How do you feel?"" ""I feel like hell."" ""Have another?"" ""It won't do any good."" ""Try it. You can't tell; maybe this is the one that gets it. Hey, waiter! Another absinthe for this señor!" -Ernest Hemingway
"Live life to the fullest" -Ernest Hemingway
"She kissed him kind, and hard, and desperately, and the Colonel could not think about any fights or any picturesque or strange incidents. He only thought of her and how she felt and how close life comes to death when there is ecstasy. And what the hell is ecstasy and what's ecstasy's rank and serial number? And how does her black sweater feel? And who made all her smoothness and delight and the strange pride and sacrifice and wisdom of a child? Yes, ecstasy is what you might have had and instead you drew sleep's older brother.	Death is a lot of shit, he thought. It comes to you in small fragments that hardly show where it has entered. It comes, sometimes, atrociously. It can come from unboiled water; an un-pulled-up mosquito boot, or it can come with the great, white-hot, clanging roar we have lived with. It comes in small cracking whispers that precede the noise of the automatic weapon. It can come with the smoke-emitting arc of the grenade, or the sharp, cracking drop of the mortar.	I have seen it come, loosening itself from the bomb rack, and falling with that strange curve. It comes in the metallic rending crash of a vehicle, or the simple lack of traction on a slippery road.	It comes in bed to most people, I know, like love's opposite number. I have lived with it nearly all my life and the dispensing of it has been my trade. But what can I tell this girl now on this cold, windy morning in the Gritti Palace Hotel?" -Ernest Hemingway
"How do you know that? he asked himself. Going away can be final. Walking out the door can be final. Any form of real betrayal can be final. Dishonesty can be final. Selling out is final. But you are just talking now. Death is what is really final. I wish Ara and Willie would get back. They must be rigging that hulk up like a chamber of horrors. I've never liked to kill, ever. But Willie loves it. He is a strange boy and very good, too. He is just never satisfied that a thing cannot be done better." -Ernest Hemingway
"But you mustn't believe in killing, he told himself. You must do it as a necessity but you must not believe in it. If you believe in it the whole thing is wrong." -Ernest Hemingway
"I had always avoided looking at Ford when I could and I always held my breath when I was near him in a closed room, but this was the open air and the fallen leaves blew along the sidewalks from my side of the table past his, so I took a good look at him, repented, and looked across the boulevard. The light was changed again and I had missed the change. I took a drink to see if his coming had fouled it, but it still tasted good." -Ernest Hemingway
"Фонтан поклати глава. Чувствуваше се опозорен. Мадам Фонтан беше тъжна. — Не скърбете за виното — успокоих ги аз. — Той така искаше да опитате виното — рече мадам Фонтан. — Ще дойдете ли пак догодина? — Не. Може би след две години. — Виждаш ли? — обърна се към нея Фонтан. — Сбогом — казах аз. — Не съжалявайте за виното. Пийнете за наше здраве. Фонтан поклати глава. Той не се усмихна. Разбираше добре, че всичко е загубено. — Проклета кучка — промърмори на себе си Фонтан. — Снощи имаше три бутилки — каза мадам Фонтан, за да го утеши. Той само поклати глава. — Сбогом — каза той. Очите на мадам Фонтан се просълзиха. — Сбогом — каза тя. Мъчно й беше за Фонтан. — Сбогом — казахме ние. На всички ни беше тъжно." -Ernest Hemingway
"Amíg egyikünk él, mind a ketten élünk." -Ernest Hemingway
"But I could never make friends again truly, neither in my heart nor in my head. When you cannot make friends any more in your head is the worst. But it was more complicated than that." -Ernest Hemingway
"He did not want them themselves really. They were too complicated. There was something else. Vaguely he wanted a girl but he did not want to have to work to get her. He would have liked to have a girl but he did not want to have to spend a long time getting her. He did not want to get into the intrigue and the politics. He did not want to have to do any courting. He did not want to tell any more lies. It wasn't worth it." -Ernest Hemingway
"What happens to people that love each other?''I suppose they have whatever they have, and they are more fortunate than others. Then one of them gets the emptiness forever." -Ernest Hemingway
"What will you do now if they come in the night? What can you do?""Fight them,"" he said. ""I will fight them until I die." -Ernest Hemingway
"The reason you are so sore you missed the war is because war is the best subject of all. It groups the maximum of material and speeds up the action and brings out all sorts of stuff that normally you have to wait a lifetime to get." -Ernest Hemingway
"My favorite quotes;'The most essential gift for a good writer is a built-in, shock-proof shit detector.' - Ernst Hemingway.'We are all apprentices in a craft where no one ever becomes a master.'Ernest Hemingway" -Ernest Hemingway
"Nimeni n-ar trebui să rămână singur când îmbătrânește." -Ernest Hemingway
"Quando começou o Inverno, a chuva tornou-se permanente, e com a chuva veio a cólera. Mas foi dominada, e só matou sete mil homens do exército." -Ernest Hemingway
"You are killing me, fish..." -Ernest Hemingway
"La vela [...], recogida, parecía el estandarte de una eterna derrota." -Ernest Hemingway
"I wish I had a stone for the knife,' the old man said after he had checked the lashing on the oar butt. 'I should have brought a stone.' You should have brought many things, he thought. But you did not bring them, old man. Now is no time to think of what you do not have. Think of what you can do with what there is." -Ernest Hemingway
"A writer's problem does not change. He himself changes and the world he lives in changes but his problem remains the same. It is always how to write truly and, having found what is true, to project it in such a way that it becomes a part of the experience of the person who reads it." -Ernest Hemingway
"The very rich are different from you and me.' And how some one had said to Julian, Yes, they have more money." -Ernest Hemingway
"It is silly not to hope, he thought. Besides, I believe it is a sin. Do not think about sin, he thought. There are enough problems now without sin. Also I have no understanding of it.I have no understanding of it and I am not sure that I believe in it. Perhaps it was a sin to kill the fish. I suppose it was even though I did it to keep me alive and feed many people. But then everything is a sin. Do not think about sin. It is much too late for that and there are people who are paid to do it. Let them think about it. You were born to be a fisherman as the fish was born to be a fish. San Pedro was a fisherman as was the father of the great DiMaggio." -Ernest Hemingway
"I was leading, and already I missed not working and I felt the death loneliness that comes at the end of every day that is wasted in your life." -Ernest Hemingway
"El hombre no está hecho para la derrota; un hombre puede ser destruido, pero no derrotado." -Ernest Hemingway
"If the people show too much courage on this world, the society must choke them to break them - and by that, of course, kill them. The society breaks everyone, but after that many become stronger on that broken places. And those it cannot broke, it kills them." -Ernest Hemingway
"We still went under the system, then, that praise to the face was open disgrace." -Ernest Hemingway
"THE GAMBLER,THE NUN & THE RADIOI do not follow you.Many times I do not follow myself with pleasure." -Ernest Hemingway
"There is neither yesterday, certainly, nor is there any tomorrow. How old must you be before you know that? There is only now," -Ernest Hemingway
"Holdat-napot, mely odafenn világol. Akármennyit járhatom a világot, Soha el nem fogyasztom e világot." -Ernest Hemingway
"How could a woman know that you meant nothing that you said; that you spoke only from habit and to be comfortable? After he no longer meant what he said, his lies were more successful with women than when he had told them the truth." -Ernest Hemingway
"I love your beard,' Catherine said. 'It's a great success. It looks so stiff and fierce and it's very soft and a great pleasure." -Ernest Hemingway
"Margot was too beautiful for Macomber to divorce her and Macomber had too much money for Margot ever to leave him." -Ernest Hemingway
"Que cosa mas mala es la guerra - What a horrible thing war is" -Ernest Hemingway
"We'll come home and eat here and we'll have a lovely meal and drink Beaune from the co-operative you can see right out of the window there with the price of the Beaune on the window. And afterwards we'll read and then go to bed and make love.' 'And we'll never love anyone else but each other.' 'No. Never." -Ernest Hemingway
"یک مرد. یک مرد تنها نمی‌تواند. هیچ مردی تنها نمی‌تواند. فرق نمی‌کند چه‌جور. یک مرد تنها هیچ مهلت خواهر ج***ای ندارد." -Ernest Hemingway
"The myriad flecks of the plankton were annulled now by the high sun and it was only the great deep prisms in the blue water that the old man saw now with his lines going straight down into the water that was a mile deep." -Ernest Hemingway
"We walked across the bridge and were on our own side of the river.""Are you hungry again?"" I said. ""Us. Talking and walking.""""Of course, Tatie. Aren't you?""""Let's go to a wonderful place and have a truly grand dinner.""""Where?""""Michaud's?""""That's perfect and it's so close." -Ernest Hemingway
"Ever since they had grounded he had felt, in a way, reprieved. When they had grounded he had felt the heavy bump of the ship as though he were hit himself. He knew it was not rocky as she hit. He could feel that in his hands and through the soles of his feet. But the grounding had come to him as a personal wound. Then, later, had come the feeling of reprieve that a wound brings. He still had the feeling of the bad dream and that it all had happened before." -Ernest Hemingway
"He remembered the good times with them all, and the quarrels. They always picked the finest places to have the quarrels. And why had they always quarrelled when he was feeling best? He had never written any of that because, at first, he never wanted to hurt any one and then it seemed as though there was enough to write without it. But he had always thought that he would write it finally. There was so much to write. He had seen the world change; not just the events; although he had seen many of them and had watched the people, but he had seen the subtler change and he could remember how the people were at different times. He had been in it and he had watched it and it was his duty to write of it; but now he never would." -Ernest Hemingway
"The punishment of the hook is nothing. The punishment of hunger, and that he is against something that he does not comprehend, is everything. Rest now, old man, and let him work until your next duty comes." -Ernest Hemingway
"his fight has no panic in it. I wonder if he has any plans or if he is just as desperate as I am? He" -Ernest Hemingway
"Do you have other things like that to look forward to?Just everyday. I look forward to everyday." -Ernest Hemingway
"And what did last? I last, she thought. Yes, i have lasted. But for what?" -Ernest Hemingway
"Really I don't. And you know if you get so you can't see you won't be able to write.' 'I'll dictate,' Roger said. 'Like Milton.' 'I know you dictate beautifully,' young Tom said. 'But this morning when Miss Phelps tried to take it off the machine it was mostly music.' 'I'm writing an opera,' Roger said. 'I know you'll write a wonderful opera, Mr. Davis. But don't you think we ought to finish the novel first? You took a big advance on the novel.' 'Finish it yourself,' Roger said. 'You ought to know the plot by now.' 'I know the plot, Mr. Davis, and it's a lovely plot but it has that same girl in it that you had die in that other book and people may be confused.' 'Dumas did the same thing." -Ernest Hemingway
"Everything about the old man was old with the sole exception of his eyes. His eyes resembled the colour of the sea and were joyous and unconquered." -Ernest Hemingway
"If you can do this you are beginning to get what you are trying for, which is to make something that will become a part of the reader's experience and a part of his memory." -Ernest Hemingway
"I walked down past the Lycée Henri Quatre and the ancient church of St.-Étienne-du-Mont and the windswept Place du Panthéon and cut in for shelter to the right and finally came out on the lee side of the Boulevard St.-Michel and worked on down it past the Cluny and the Boulevard St.-Germain until I came to a good café that I knew on the Place St.-Michel." -Ernest Hemingway
"A man must learn to recognize values." -Ernest Hemingway
"خوبتر از اون بود که موندنی باشه." -Ernest Hemingway
"and the palm fronds of our victories, the worn light bulbs of our discoveries and the empty condoms of our great loves float with no significance against one single, lasting thing—the stream." -Ernest Hemingway
"I am not religious,"" he said. ""But I will say ten Our Fathers and ten Hail Marys that I should catch this fish, and I promise to make a pilgrimage to the Virgen de Cobre if I catch him. That is a promise." -Ernest Hemingway
"Luck is a feast which doesn't stay in one place" -Ernest Hemingway
"I sat back in the corner with a heavy mug of dark beer and an opened glazed-paper package of pretzels and ate the pretzels for the salty flavor and the good way they made the beer taste and read about disaster." -Ernest Hemingway
"He had destroyed his talent by not using it" -Ernest Hemingway
"The east wind is blowing all the water out.' 'The hell with the east wind,' Thomas Hudson said. As he said the words, they sounded like a basic and older blasphemy than any that could have to do with the Christian religion. He knew that he was speaking against one of the great friends of all people who go to sea. So since he had made the blasphemy he did not apologize. He repeated it." -Ernest Hemingway
"Keep your head clear and know how to suffer like a man. Or a fish." -Ernest Hemingway
"You can bet on Franco, or Mussolini, or Hitler, if you want. But my money goes on Hipolito." -Ernest Hemingway
"Oggi non è che un giorno qualunque di tutti i giorni che verranno, ma ciò che farai in tutti i giorni che verranno dipende da quello che farai oggi." -Ernest Hemingway
"That's two dollars and a half. Who can we borrow that from?' 'That's easy. I can always borrow two dollars and a half." -Ernest Hemingway
"You're going to have things to repent, boy,' Mr. John had told Nick. 'That's one of the best things there is. You can always decide whether to repent them or not. But the thing is to have them." -Ernest Hemingway
"-""We can go everywhere.""-""No, we can't. It isn't ours anymore.""-""It's ours.""-No, it isn't. And once they take it away, you never get it back." -Ernest Hemingway
"do you want me to shoot thee, ?...? it is nothing." -Ernest Hemingway
"— Тъжен ли сте? — полюбопитствува тя.— Не.— Замислен?— Може би малко. Не зная.— В ден като днешния не заслужава изобщо да се мисли.— Съгласен съм. Няма да мисля. Мога ли да наблюдавам вълните?— Вълните са волни.— Искате ли да влезем още веднъж?— По-късно.— Кой ви е учил да плувате?— Вие." -Ernest Hemingway
"He must find things he cannot lose" -Ernest Hemingway
"To be able to say: I loved this person, we had a hell of a nice time together, it's over but in a way it will never be over and I do know that I for sure loved this person, to be able to say that and mean it, that's rare…That's rare and valuable." -Ernest Hemingway
"Some say that in writing you can never possess anything until you have given it away or, if you are in a hurry, you may have to throw it away." -Ernest Hemingway
"He is a great fish and I must convince him, he thought. I must never let him learn his strength nor what he could do if he made his run. If I were him I would put in everything now and go until something broke. But, thank God, they are not as intelligent as we who kill them; although they are more noble and more able." -Ernest Hemingway
"It's only orders between us." -Ernest Hemingway
"You're feeling it now, fish,"" he said. ""And so, God knows, am I." -Ernest Hemingway
"THE GAMBLER,THE NUN,& THE RADIOYou like music? How would I not" -Ernest Hemingway
"He was a boy born to be quite wicked who was being very good and he carried his wickedness around with him transmuted into a sort of teasing gaiety. But he was a bad boy and the others knew it and he knew it. He was just being good while his badness grew inside him." -Ernest Hemingway
"But neither bull force nor bull courage lasted, she knew now, and what did last? I last, she thought. Yes, I have lasted. But for what?" -Ernest Hemingway
"the fish's eye looked as detached as the mirrors in a periscope or as a saint in a procession." -Ernest Hemingway
"I'd like to destroy you a few times in bed," -Ernest Hemingway
"If people bring so much courage to this world the world has to kill them to break them, so of course it kills them. The world breaks every one and afterward many are strong at the broken places. But those that will not break it kills. It kills the very good and the very gentle and the very brave impartially. If you are none of these you can be sure it will kill you too bit there will be no special hurry." -Ernest Hemingway
"You oughtn't to ever do anything too long." -Ernest Hemingway
"What hast thou against the onion?""""The odor. Nothing more. Otherwise it is like the rose." -Ernest Hemingway
"When George Plimpton asked Ernest Hemingway what the best training for an aspiring writer would be in a 1954 interview, Hem replied, 'Let's say that he should go out and hang himself because he finds that writing well is impossibly difficult. Then he should be cut down without mercy and forced by his own self to write as well as he can for the rest of his life. At least he will have the story of the hanging to commence with." -Ernest Hemingway
"If you love him, it is not a sin to kill him. Or is it more?" -Ernest Hemingway
"He remembered the time he had hooked one of a pair of marlin. The male fish always let the female fish feed first and the hooked fish, the female, made a wild, panic-stricken, despairing fight that soon exhausted her, and all the time the male had stayed with her, crossing the line and circling with her on the surface. He had stayed so close that the old man was afraid he would cut the line with his tail which was sharp as a scythe and almost of that size and shape. When the old man had gaffed her and clubbed her, holding the rapier bill with its sandpaper edge and clubbing her across the top of her head until her colour turned to a colour almost like the backing of mirrors, and then, with the boy's aid, hoisted her aboard, the male fish had stayed by the side of the boat. Then, while the old man was clearing the lines and preparing the harpoon, the male fish jumped high into the air beside the boat to see where the female was and then went down deep, his lavender wings, that were his pectoral fins, spread wide and all his wide lavender stripes showing. He was beautiful, the old man remembered, and he had stayed. That was the saddest thing I ever saw with them, the old man thought." -Ernest Hemingway
'Bet, kad aukstie lieti līst bez mitas un nogalina pavasari, šķiet, ka veltīgi aizgājusi bojā jaunā dzīvība.'
'He heard her coming up the stairs and noticed the difference in her tread when she was carrying two glasses and when she had walked down bare-handed. He heard the rain on the windowpane and he smelled the beech logs burning in the fireplace. As she came into the room he put his hand out for the drink and closed his hand on it and felt her touch the glass with her own.'
'I suppose it is possible to live as full a life in seventy hours as on seventy years; granted that your life has been full up to the time that the seventy hours start and that you have reached a certain age.'
'Inaccrochable - A picture a painter paints and then he cannot hang it when he has a show and nobody will buy it because they cannot hang it either. -said by Gertrude Stein'
'I have never seen a man who lost the blood from his face so fast, and I wondered where it went'
'Az ember végigmegy az életén, s mindenféle helyzetről azt hiszi, jelent valamit, s végül kiderül, hogy nem.'
"Gee, Mr. Davis, I can't remember much about that time. I think it was about Italian writers and about Mr. Ford. Mr. Joyce couldn't stand Mr. Ford. Mr. Pound had gotten on his nerves, too. ‘Ezra's mad, Hudson,' he said to papa. I can remember that because I thought mad meant mad like a mad dog and I remember sitting there and watching Mr. Joyce's face, it was sort of red with awfully smooth skin, cold weather skin, and his glasses that had one lens even thicker than the other, and thinking of Mr. Pound with his red hair and his pointed beard and his nice eyes, with white stuff sort of like lather dripping out of his mouth. I thought it was terrible Mr. Pound was mad and I hoped we wouldn't run into him. Then Mr. Joyce said, ‘Of course Ford's been mad for years,' and I saw Mr. Ford with his big, pale, funny face and his pale eyes and his mouth with the teeth loose in it and always about half open and that awful lather dripping down his jaws too." -Ernest Hemingway
"THE MARVELLOUS THING IS THAT IT'S painless,' he said. 'That's how you know when it starts." -Ernest Hemingway
"French, the language of diplomacy. Spanish, the language of bureaucracy." -Ernest Hemingway
"Turning off the electric light he continued the conversation with himself. It is the light of course but it is necessary that the place be clean and pleasant. You do not want music. Certainly you do not want music. Nor can you stand before a bar with dignity although that is all that is provided for these hours. What did he fear? It was not fear or dread. It was a nothing that he knew too well. It was all a nothing and a man was nothing too. It was only that and light was all it needed and a certain cleanness and order. Some lived in it and never felt it but he knew it all was nada y pues nada y nada y pues nada. Our nada who art in nada, nada be thy name thy kingdom nada thy will be nada in nada as it is in nada. Give us this nada our daily nada and nada us our nada as we nada our nadas and nada us not into nada but deliver us from nada; pues nada. Hail nothing full of nothing, nothing is with thee. He smiled and stood before a bar with a shining steam pressure coffee machine." -Ernest Hemingway
"He had lost the capacity of personal suffering, or he thought he had, and could only be hurt truly by what happened to others." -Ernest Hemingway
"This is the first sort of letdown we've had. So let's not let it let us down. We'll have long baths and some drinks and a meal twice as expensive as we can afford and we'll go to bed and make wonderful love." -Ernest Hemingway
"If every one said orders were impossible to carry out when they were received where would you be? Where would we all be if you just said, ""Impossible,"" when orders came?" -Ernest Hemingway
"Nem szívesen távozom a világból, nagyon nem szívesen, de remélem, nem dolgomvégezetlenül megyek. Megtettem mindent ami erőmből tellett." -Ernest Hemingway
"Вы хотите сказать, что я не отмечен печатью смерти? - спросил я, не удержавшись.  - Нет, вы отмечены печатью Жизни. - Последнее слово он произнес с большой буквы." -Ernest Hemingway
"But it is death nevertheless, one of the subjects that a man may write of." -Ernest Hemingway
"If an angel out of heaven Gives you something else to drink, Thank him for his kind intentions; Go and pour them down the sink." -Ernest Hemingway
"The bill always comes" -Ernest Hemingway
"That's the way our friends the anarchists talk. Whenever things get really bad they want to set fire to something and to die." -Ernest Hemingway
"Tell me about some more of those friends of mine, papa,' young Tom said. 'I know I knew them and I know we used to be around cafés together but I'd like to know some more definite things about them. The sort of things I know about Mr. Joyce, say.' 'Can you remember Mr. Pascin?' 'No. Not really. What was he like?' 'You can't claim him as a friend if you don't even remember him,' Andrew said. 'Do you think I won't be able to remember what Mr. Davis was like a few years from now?" -Ernest Hemingway
"Thomas Hudson had studied tropical storms for many years and he could tell from the sky when there was a tropical disturbance long before his barometer showed its presence. He knew how to plot storms and the precautions that should be taken against them. He knew too what it was to live through a hurricane with the other people of the island and the bond that the hurricane made between all people who had been through it. He also knew that hurricanes could be so bad that nothing could live through them. He always thought, though, that if there was ever one that bad he would like to be there for it and go with the house if she went." -Ernest Hemingway
"He did not know what made him feel as he did. But" -Ernest Hemingway
"But they went through this fiction every day." -Ernest Hemingway
"Then that the afternoon should come; that it should come flying." -Ernest Hemingway
"The heart of another is a dark forest," -Ernest Hemingway
"Ma che cosa posso raccontare a questa ragazza, ora, in questa fredda mattina ventosa al Gritti Palace Hotel?'Che cosa vorresti sapere, Figlia?' le chiese'Tutto quanto.''Va bene' disse il colonnello. 'Incominciamo." -Ernest Hemingway
"So che la notte non è come il giorno: che tutte le cose sono diverse, che le cose della notte non si possono spiegare nel giorno perché allora non esistono, e la notte può essere un momento terribile per la gente sola quando la loro solitudine è incominciata. Ma con Catherine non c'era quasi differenza nella notte tranne che era anche meglio. Se la gente porta tanto coraggio in questo mondo, il mondo deve ucciderla per spezzarla, così naturalmente la uccide. Il mondo spezza tutti quanti e poi molti sono forti nei punti spezzati. Ma quelli che non spezza li uccide. Uccide imparzialmente i molto buoni e i molto gentili e i molto coraggiosi. Se non siete fra questi potete esser certi che ucciderà anche voi, ma non avrà una particolare premura." -Ernest Hemingway
'Never have I seen a greater, or more beautiful, or a calmer or more noble thing than you, brother. Come on and kill me. I don't care who kills who.'
'I don't care if he kills me, the big son of a bitch,' David said. 'Oh hell. I don't hate him. I love him.'
'Of all men the drunkard is the foulest. The thief when he is not stealing is like another. The extortioner does not practice in the home. The murderer when he is at home can wash his hands. But the drunkard stinks and vomits in his own bed and dissolves his organs in alcohol.'
"That's all we do, isn't it—look at things and try new drinks?" -Ernest Hemingway
"It was warm and like the spring and I walked down the alleyway of trees, warmed from the sun on the wall, and found we still lived in the same house and that it all looked the same as when I had left it." -Ernest Hemingway
"There is never any ending to Paris and the memory of each person who has lived in it differs from that of any other. We always returned to it no matter who we were or how it was changed or with what difficulties, or ease, it could be reached. Paris was always worth it and you received return for whatever you brought to it." -Ernest Hemingway
"I settled back. Brett moved close to me. We sat up close against each other. I put my arm around her and she rested against me comfortably. It was very hot and bright, and the houses looked sharply white. We turned out onto the Gran Via.""Oh, Jake,"" Brett said, ""We could have have such a damned good time together.""""Yes,"" I said. ""Isn't it pretty to think so." -Ernest Hemingway
"Nick did not want to go in there now. He felt a reaction against deep wading with the water deepening up under his armpits, to hook big trout in places impossible to land them. In the swamp the banks were bare, the big cedars came together overhead, the sun did not come through, except in patches; in the fast deep water, in the half light, the fishing would be tragic. In the swamp fishing was a tragic adventure. Nick did not want it. He did not want to go down the stream any farther today. He" -Ernest Hemingway
"Because, just then, death had come and rested its head on the foot of the cot and he could smell its breath.""Never believe any of that about a scythe and a skull,"" he told her. ""It can be two bicycle policemen as easily, or be a bird. Or it can have a wide snout like a hyena.""It had moved up on him now, but it had no shape any more. It simply occupied space.""Tell it to go away.""It did not go away but moved a little closer.""You've got a hell of a breath,"" he told it. ""You stinking bastard." -Ernest Hemingway
"But was it corruption or was it merely that you lost the naïveté that you started with? Would it not be the same in anything? Who else" -Ernest Hemingway
"We both touched wood on the café table and the waiter came to see what it was we wanted. But what we wanted not he, nor anyone else, nor knocking on wood or marble, as this café table-top was, could ever bring us. But we did not know it that night and we were very happy." -Ernest Hemingway
"But I know many things I can't say." -Ernest Hemingway
"Azt hiszem – gondolta –, hetven órában csakúgy elfér az egész élet, mint hetven évben; de csak ha az ember már kinőtt a gyerekkorból, s ha már s hetven óra kezdetét is gazdag élet előzte meg." -Ernest Hemingway
"It's none of their business that you have to learn to write. Let them think you were born that way." -Ernest Hemingway
"I wonder how they will like Maria in Missoula, Montana? That is if I can get a job back in Missoula. I suppose that I am ticketed as a Red there now for good and will be on the general blacklist. Though you never know. You never can tell. They've no proof of what you do, and as a matter of fact they would never believe it if you told them, and my passport was valid for Spain before they issued the restrictions.The time for getting back will not be until the fall of thirty-seven. I left in the summer of thirty-six and though the leave is for a year you do not need to be back until the fall term opens in the following year. There is a lot of time between now and the fall term. There is a lot of time between now and the day after tomorrow if you want to put it that way. No. I think there is no need to worry about the university. Just you turn up there in the fall and it will be all right. Just try and turn up there.But it has been a strange life for a long time now. Damned if it hasn't. Spain was your work and your job, so being in Spain was natural and sound. You had worked summers on engineering projects and in the forest service building roads and in the park and learned to handle powder, so the demolition was a sound and normal job too. Always a little hasty, but sound.Once you accept the idea of demolition as a problem it is only a problem. But there was plenty that was not so good that went with it although God knows you took it easily enough. There was the constant attempt to approximate the conditions of successful assassination that accompanied the demolition. Did big words make it more defensible? Did they make killing any more palatable? You took to it a little too readily if you ask me, he told himself. And what you will be like or just exactly what you will be suited for when you leave the service of the Republic is, to me, he thought, extremely doubtful. But my guess is you will get rid of all that by writing about it, he said. Once you write it down it is all gone. It will be a good book if you can write it. Much better than the other.But in the meantime all the life you have or ever will have is today, tonight, tomorrow, today, tonight, tomorrow, over and over again (I hope), he thought and so you had better take what time there is and be very thankful for it. If the bridge goes bad. It does not look too good just now." -Ernest Hemingway
"No pleasure in anything if you mouth it up too much." -Ernest Hemingway
"The dignity of movement of an ice-berg is due to only one-eighth of it being above water." -Ernest Hemingway
"Every day is a new day. It is better to be lucky. But I would rather be exact. Then when luck comes you are ready. The" -Ernest Hemingway
"Just take that beautiful body down below, will you?' Wilson said. 'I'm sure you'll get the lady to sleep.' 'You swine,' the man said. 'You rotten swine.' 'Can't you think up any other names?' Frank said. 'Swine's getting awfully dull. You better go down below before you catch cold. If I had a wonderful chest like that I wouldn't risk it out here on a windy night like this." -Ernest Hemingway
"No. I'd want to stay with him till I died. But to see it with Davy is different.' 'We have to think about how he feels,' his father told him. 'And what's important to him.' 'I know,' young Tom said hopelessly. 'But to me it's just Davy. I wish the world wasn't the way it is and that things didn't have to happen to brothers.' 'I do too,' Thomas Hudson said. 'You're an awfully good boy, Tommy. But please know I would have stopped this long ago except that I know that if David catches this fish he'll have something inside him for all his life and it will make everything else easier." -Ernest Hemingway
"There is no reason why because it is dark you should look at things differently from when it is light. The hell there isn't!" -Ernest Hemingway
"Then there was the bad weather. It would come in one day when the fall was over. You would have to shut the windows in the night against the rain and the cold wind would strip the leaves from the trees in the Place Contrescarpe. The leaves lay sodden in the rain and the wind drove the rain against the big green autobus at the terminal and the Café des Amateurs was crowded and the windows misted over from the heat and the smoke inside. It was a sad, evilly run café where the drunkards of the quarter crowded together and I kept away from it because of the smell of dirty bodies and the sour smell of drunkenness." -Ernest Hemingway
"Ci sono cose che lei ama molto.Quelle di cui parlate a mensa.Ma non è amore quello,solo sfrenatezza,lussuria.Quando si ama si vuol far qualcosa per il proprio amore,sacrificarsi per esso,servire." -Ernest Hemingway
"THE GAMBLER,THE NUN,& THE RADIOYou'll be one. Everybody gets what they want. That's what they always tell me." -Ernest Hemingway
"...I did not know that I could ever feel what I have felt, he thought. Nor that this could happen to me. I would like to have it for my whole life. You will, the other part of him said. You will. You have it NOW and that is all your whole life is; now. There is nothing else than now. There is neither yesterday, certainly, nor is there any tomorrow. How old must you be before you know that? There is only now, and if now is only two days, then two days is your life and everything in it will be in proportion. This is how you live your life in two days. And if you stop complaining and asking for what you will never get, you will have a good life. A good life is not measured by any biblical span." -Ernest Hemingway
"You had to trust the people you worked with completely or not at all, and you had to make decisions about the trusting." -Ernest Hemingway
"finding you were able to make something up; to create truly enough so that it made you happy to read it; and to do this every day you worked was something that gave a greater pleasure than any I had ever known." -Ernest Hemingway
"It is in defeat that we become Christian." -Ernest Hemingway
"That is the way a whore talks.A whore is also a woman, but I am not a whore.You'll be one.Not through you." -Ernest Hemingway
"You are killing me, fish, the old man thought. But you have a right to. Never have I seen a greater, or more beautiful, or a calmer or more noble thing than you, brother. Come on and kill me. I do not care who kills who. Now" -Ernest Hemingway
"There is no language so filthy as Spanish. There are words for all the vile words in English and there are other words and expressions that are used only in countries where blasphemy keeps pace with the austerity of religion." -Ernest Hemingway
"When writing a novel a writer should create living people; people, not characters. A character is a caricature." -Ernest Hemingway
"Think about something cheerful, old man,"" he said. ""Every minute now you are closer to home." -Ernest Hemingway
"I wonder. Of course maybe that isn't what they figure to do. Maybe they aren't going to do any such thing. But it's natural that's what they would do and I heard that word." -Ernest Hemingway
"Those men are not fascists, they are same people as us." -Ernest Hemingway
"When we have just seen the sky full of airplanes of a quantity to kill us back to our grandfathers and forward to all unborn grandsons including all cats, goats and bedbugs. Airplanes making a noise to curdle the milk in your mother's breasts as they pass over darkening the sky and roaring like lions and you ask me to take things seriously. I take them too seriously already." -Ernest Hemingway
"Durante o dia, nada mais fácil do que mostrar que não se dá importância, mas, à noite, é diferente." -Ernest Hemingway
"than those damn—Oh hell, I can't even remember the name of them.' 'You're not supposed to swear when we are around,' Thomas Hudson corrected. 'I'm sorry, papa,' the small boy said. 'I can't help it that I'm so damn young. I'm sorry again. I mean so young." -Ernest Hemingway
"The coward dies a thousand deaths, the brave but one?" -Ernest Hemingway
"wars are fought by the finest people that there are, or just say people, although, the closer you are to where they are fighting, the finer people you meet; but they are made, provoked and initiated by straight economic rivalries and by swine that stand to profit from them. I believe that all the people who stand to profit by a war and who help provoke it should be shot on the first day it starts by accredited representatives of the loyal citizens of their country who will fight it." -Ernest Hemingway
"This is how Paris was in the early days when we were very poor and very happy.We ate well and cheaply and drank well and cheaply and slept well and warm together and loved each other." -Ernest Hemingway
"It is silly not to hope, he thought. Besides I believe it is a sin." -Ernest Hemingway
"Nada existe excepto a través de uno mismo.. Y no quiero morirme y que desaparezca" -Ernest Hemingway
"Norocul e un lucru care apare în mai multe forme. Cone poate să îl recunoască? Totuși aș lua un pic, în orice formă ar fi, și aș plăti cât mi s-ar cere. Aș vrea să văd luminile licărind." -Ernest Hemingway
"Don't read too fast,' she said." -Ernest Hemingway
"They sat together at a table that was close against the wall near the door of the café and looked at the terrace where the tables were all empty except where the old man sat in the shadow of the leaves of the tree that moved slightly in the wind. A girl and a soldier went by in the street. The street light shone on the brass number on his collar. The girl wore no head covering and hurried beside him." -Ernest Hemingway
"آدم برای شکست آفریده نشده. آدم ممکنه از بین بره اما شکست نمی‌خوره." -Ernest Hemingway
"Who do you suppose has it easier? Ones with religion or just taking it straight? It comforts them very much but we know there is no thing to fear. It is only missing it that's bad. Dying is only bad when it takes a long time and hurts so much that it humiliates you. That is where you have all the luck, see? You don't have any of that." -Ernest Hemingway
"Yes,' said Wilson. 'There's that. Doesn't do to talk too much about all this. Talk the whole thing away. No pleasure in anything if you mouth it up too much." -Ernest Hemingway
"Tomorrow can be a day of much valid action. Tomorrow can be a day of concrete acts. Tomorrow can be a day which is worth something. That tomorrow should come and that I should be there." -Ernest Hemingway
"You truly think we will have a fight?' 'I know it. Do not think about that. Think about details. Think about all the things you should do and how we should be a happy ship until we fight. I'll think about the fight.' 'I will go and do my duty as well as I can,' Henry said. 'I wish we could practice the fight so I could do my part better.' Thomas Hudson said, 'You'll do it all right. I do not see any way that we can miss it.' 'It's been so very long,' Henry said. 'But everything is long,' Thomas Hudson told him. 'And pursuit is the longest." -Ernest Hemingway
"Somehow it was taken for granted that an American could not have aficion. He might simulate it or confuse it with excitement, but he could not really have it. When they saw that I had aficion, and there was no password, no set questions that could bring it out, rather it was a sort of oral spirital examination with the questions always a little on the defensive and never apparent, there was this same embarassed putting the hand on the shoulder, or a ""Buen hombre."" But nearly always there was the actual touching. It seemed as though they wanted to touch you to make it certain." -Ernest Hemingway
"Keep your head clear and know how to suffer like a man. Or a fish, he thought." -Ernest Hemingway
"There are no man like them when they are good, but when they get bad, there's no world which is worse." -Ernest Hemingway
"Creation's probably overrated. After all, God made the world in only six days and rested on the seventh." -Ernest Hemingway
"When I come back you can tell me about the baseball.' 'The Yankees cannot lose.' 'But I fear the Indians of Cleveland.' 'Have faith in the Yankees my son. Think of the great DiMaggio." -Ernest Hemingway
"In a war we must all be careful not to hurt each other's feelings." -Ernest Hemingway
"Think about after the war and when you will paint again. There are so many good ones to paint and if you paint as well as you really can and keep out of all other things and do that, it is the true thing. You can paint the sea better than anyone now if you will do it and not get mixed up in other things. Hang on good now to how you really want to do it. You must hold hard to life to do it. But life is a cheap thing beside a man's work. The only thing is that you need it. hold it tight. Now is the true time you make your play. Make it now without hope of anything. you always coagulated well and you can make one more real play. We are not the lumpenproletariat. We are the best and we do it for free." -Ernest Hemingway
"I've known a lot of gypsies and they are strange enough. But so are we. The difference is we have to make an honest living. Nobody knows what tribes we came from nor what our tribal inheritance is nor what the mysteries were in the woods where the people lived that we came from. All we know is that we do not know." -Ernest Hemingway
"Tommy is a friend of Mr. Joyce.' 'Boy, I'll say I am,' said young Tom. 'Papa, we never knew Balzac, did we?' 'No. He was before our time.' 'Nor Gautier? I found two swell ones by them at home too. The Droll Stories and Mademoiselle de Maupin. I don't understand Mademoiselle de Maupin at all yet but I am reading it over to try to and it's great. But if they weren't friends of ours I think they would expel me sure if I read them to the boys." -Ernest Hemingway
"The world breaks everyone." -Ernest Hemingway
"It was considered a virtue not to talk unnecessarily at sea and the old man had always considered it so and respected it. But now he said his thoughts aloud many times since there was no one that they could annoy. 'If the others heard me talking out loud they would think that I am crazy,' he said aloud. 'But since I am not crazy, I do not care. And the rich have radios to talk to them in their boats and to bring them the baseball" -Ernest Hemingway
"Mindenkinek szüksége van arra, hogy nyíltan beszélhessen valakivel – mondta az asszony. – Azelőtt ott volt a vallás meg a többi értelmetlenség, most meg mindenkinek szüksége van valakire, akinek mindent őszintén bevallhat, mert különben akármilyen értékes ember, magányossá lesz." -Ernest Hemingway
"The men ate seriously." -Ernest Hemingway
"Īstais ļaunums sākas ar pašu nevainīgāko." -Ernest Hemingway
"اگر بخت یارت بوده باشد تا در جوانی در پاریس زندگی کنی ، باقی عمرت را ، هر کجا که بگذرانی ، با تو خواهد بود ؛ چون پاریس ، جشنی است بیکران." -Ernest Hemingway
"It is only in defeat that we become Christian" -Ernest Hemingway
"THE GAMBLER,THE NUN,& THE RADIOI thought the pain alone would kill me" -Ernest Hemingway
"But we liked Miss Stein and her friend, although the friend was frightening, and the paintings and the cakes and the eau-devie were truly wonderful. They seemed to like us too and treated us as though we were very good, well-mannered and promising children and I felt that they forgave us for being in love and being married—time would fix that—and when my wife invited them to tea, they accepted." -Ernest Hemingway
"Cuando estoy trabajando en un libro o una historia, empiezo a escribir cada mañana tan pronto sale el sol. Nadie te distrae a esa hora. Hace fresco o frío y te vas concentrando y entrando en calor conforme escribes. Lees lo que has escrito y paras cuando sabes qué va a ocurrir después. Escribes hasta que llegas a un lugar donde todavía estás inspirado. Ahí paras hasta el día siguiente. Empezaste a las seis de la mañana, digamos, y puedes llegar hasta las 12 del mediodía. Cuando acabas, estás tan vacío, y a la vez tan lleno, como cuando haces el amor con alguien a quien amas. Nada puede hacerte daño, nada puede pasar, nada importa hasta el día siguiente cuando vuelves a escribir." -Ernest Hemingway
"For what are we born if not to aid one another? And to listen and say nothing is a cold enough aid." -Ernest Hemingway
"Yes Tatie, and you and Chink always talking about how to make things true, writing them, and put them rightly and not describe. I remember everything. Sometimes he was right and sometimes you were right. I remember the lights and textures and the shapes you argued about." -Ernest Hemingway
"You might be considered a gentleman in Italy,' Ford said magnanimously." -Ernest Hemingway
"Rudeņos ar skumjām samierinies." -Ernest Hemingway
"you have to discard the old moralities, values and belief structures, you have to look for what is authentic in yourself." -Ernest Hemingway
"In the old days he would not have worried, but the fighting part of him was tired now, along with the other part, and he was alone in all of this now and he lay on the big, wide, old bed and could neither read nor sleep." -Ernest Hemingway
"You ask for the impossible. You ask for the ruddy impossible. So if you love this girl as much as you say you do, you had better lover her very hard and make up in intensity what the relation will lack in duration and continuity." -Ernest Hemingway
"Un uomo intelligente a volte è costretto a ubriacarsi per passare il tempo tra gli idioti." -Ernest Hemingway
"He had been successful in almost every way except in his married life, although he had never cared, truly, about success. What he cared about was painting and his children and he was still in love with the first woman he had been in love with. He had loved many women since and sometimes someone would come to stay on the island. He needed to see women and they were welcome for a while. He liked having them there, sometimes for quite a long time. But in the end he was always glad when they were gone, even when he was very fond of them. He had trained himself not to quarrel with women anymore and he had learned how not to get married. These two things had been nearly as difficult to learn as how to settle down and paint in a steady and well-ordered way." -Ernest Hemingway
"Below Les Avants there was a chalet where the pension was wonderful and where we would be together and have our books and at night be warm in bed together with the windows open and the stars bright. That was where we could go. Traveling third class on the train was not expensive. The pension cost very little more than we spent in Paris." -Ernest Hemingway
"Non c'è nulla di nobile nell'essere superiore a qualcun altro. La vera nobiltà consiste nell'essere superiore a chi eravamo ieri." -Ernest Hemingway
"It was her. No one else got out of a car that way, practically and easily and beautifully and at the same time as though she were doing the street a great favor when she stepped on it: Everyone had tried to look like her for many years and some came quite close. But when you saw her, all the people that looked like her were only imitations. She was in uniform now and she smiled at the doorman and asked him a question and he answered happily and nodded his head and she started across the sidewalk and into the bar. There was another woman in uniform behind her." -Ernest Hemingway
"But in the dark now and no glow showing and no lights and only the wind and the steady pull of the sail he felt that perhaps he was already dead. He put his two hands together and felt the palms. They were not dead and he could bring the pain of life by simply opening and closing them. He leaned his back against the stern and knew he was not dead. His shoulders told him." -Ernest Hemingway
"Oh, darling,' she said. 'You will be good to me, won't you?'What the hell, I thought." -Ernest Hemingway
"Discipline must come from trust and confidence." -Ernest Hemingway
"Kiss me just once more before we get there" -Ernest Hemingway
"Under the black hat, when I had first seen them, the eyes had been those of an unsuccessful rapist.  - about Wyndham Lewis" -Ernest Hemingway
"Then there was the smell of heather crushed and the roughness of the bent stalks under her head and the sun bright on her closed eyes and all his life he would remember the curve of her throat with her head pushed back into the heather roots and her lips that moved smally and by themselves and the fluttering of the lashes on the eyes tight closed against the sun and against everything, and for her everything was red, orange, gold-red from the sun on the closed eyes, and it all was that color, all of it, the filling, the possessing, the having, all of that color, all in a blindness of that color. For him it was a dark passage which led to nowhere, then to nowhere, then again to nowhere, once again to nowhere, always and forever to nowhere, heavy on the elbows in the earth to nowhere, dark, never any end to nowhere, hung on all time always to unknowing nowhere, this time and again for always to nowhere, now not to be borne once again always and to nowhere, now beyond all bearing up, up, up and into nowhere, suddenly, scaldingly, holdingly all nowhere gone and time absolutely still and they were both there, time having stopped and he felt the earth move out and away from under them." -Ernest Hemingway
"He was sentimental, and, like most sentimental people, he was both cruel and abused." -Ernest Hemingway
"I was always embarrassed by the words sacred, glorious, and sacrifice and the expression in vain." -Ernest Hemingway
"We only knew then that there was always the war, but that we were not going to it anymore." -Ernest Hemingway
"But she was delightful and charming and welcoming and behind her, as high as the wall and stretching out into the back room which gave onto the inner court of the building, were the shelves and shelves of the richness of the library." -Ernest Hemingway
"I was trying to write then and I found the greatest difficulty, aside from knowing truly what you really felt, rather than what you were supposed to feel, and had been taught to feel, was to put down what really happened in action; what the actual things were which produced the emotion that you experienced. In writing for a newspaper you told what happened and, with one trick and another, you communicated the emotion aided by the element of timeliness which gives a certain emotion to any account of something that has happened on that day; but the real thing, the sequence of motion and fact which made the emotion and which would be as valid in a year or in ten years or, with luck and if you stated it purely enough, always, was beyond me and I was working very hard to get it." -Ernest Hemingway
"No,' the girl said. 'My father spent his money and lost his money after he married mother and none of my stepfathers ever made any provision for me.' 'You don't have to have money,' Andrew said to her. 'Why don't you live with us?' young Tom asked her. 'You'd be fine with us.' 'It sounds lovely. But I have to make a living.' 'We're going to Paris,' Andrew said. 'You come along. It will be wonderful. You and I can go and see all the arrondissements together.' 'I'll have to think it over,' the girl said. 'Do you want me to make you a drink to help you decide?' David said. 'That's what they always do in Mr. Davis's books." -Ernest Hemingway
"She was angry at Ezra Pound because he had sat down too quickly on a small, fragile and, doubtless, uncomfortable chair, that it is quite possible he had been given on purpose, and had either cracked or broken it. That he was a great poet and a gentle and generous man and could have accommodated himself in a normal-size chair was not considered." -Ernest Hemingway
"El mundo rompe a todos y después muchos, son fuertes en los lugares rotos." -Ernest Hemingway
"Make it all up. But make it up so truly that later it will happen that way. Ernest Hemingway" -Ernest Hemingway
"The biggest boy was long and dark with Thomas Hudson's neck and shoulders and the long swimmer's legs and big feet. He had a rather Indian face and was a happy boy although in repose his face looked almost tragic." -Ernest Hemingway
"was a gunner's mate,' said Marty. It was a lie. He had really been a chief yeoman at the time of the mutiny. But he thought now, always, that he had been a gunner's mate. 'Ah. I thought you were a first-class yeoman,' Karkov said. 'I always get my facts wrong. It is the mark of the journalist." -Ernest Hemingway
"Eres mía y todo París es mío y yo soy de este cuaderno y de este lápiz." -Ernest Hemingway
"Maybe away from Paris I could write about Paris as in Paris I could write about Michigan. I did not know it was too early for that because I did not know Paris well enough. But that was how it worked out eventually" -Ernest Hemingway
"It was higher than a big scythe blade and a very pale lavender above the dark blue water. It raked back and as the fish swam just below the surface the old man could see his huge bulk and the purple stripes that banded him. His dorsal fin was down and his huge pectorals were spread wide." -Ernest Hemingway
"... when you go over it, cut out everything you can. The main thing is to know what to leave out. The way you tell whether you're going good is by what you can throw away." -Ernest Hemingway
"because I've lived through so much,I can now enjoy in everything" -Ernest Hemingway
"Now he would never write the things that he had saved to write until he knew enough to write them well." -Ernest Hemingway
"he who ruleth his spirit is greater than he that taketh a city," -Ernest Hemingway
"إن الكتابه تبدو سهله غير أنها فى الواقع أشق الأعمال فى هذا العالم." -Ernest Hemingway
"Odgar loved her enough, God knows. It was liking, and liking the body, and introducing the body, and persuading, and taking chances, and never frightening, and assuming about the other person, and always taking never asking, and gentleness and liking, and making liking and happiness, and joking and making people not afraid. And making it all right afterwards. It wasn't loving. Loving was frightening." -Ernest Hemingway
"She had some ignition trouble with the old Model T Ford she then drove and the young man who worked in the garage and had served in the last year of the war had not been adept, or perhaps had not broken the priority of other vehicles, in repairing Miss Stein's Ford. Anyway he had not been sérieux and had been corrected severely by the patron of the garage after Miss Stein's protest. The patron had said to him, 'You are all a génération perdue.' 'That's what you are. That's what you all are,' Miss Stein said. 'All of you young people who served in the war. You are a lost generation." -Ernest Hemingway
"I drink a little now once in a while, just to drive the wolf out of the room" -Ernest Hemingway
"Good. Coffee is good for you. It's the caffeine in it. Caffeine, we are here. Caffeine puts a man on her horse and a woman in his grave." -Ernest Hemingway
"At two meetings the stimulated horses that I was backing outraced the unstimulated or insufficiently stimulated beasts except for one race in which our fancy had been overstimulated to such a point that before the start he threw his jockey and breaking away completed a full circuit of the steeplechase course jumping beautifully by himself the way one can sometimes jump in dreams." -Ernest Hemingway
"If you make jokes with people, you create enemies to yourself." -Ernest Hemingway
"There is no lonelier man than a writer when he's writing, except the suicide." -Ernest Hemingway
"Good-by,'! he said to all those who were kneeling. 'Don't be said. To die is nothing. The only bad thing is to die at the hands of this canalla." -Ernest Hemingway
"It was when we had come back from Canada and were living in the rue Notre-Dame-des-Champs and Miss Stein and I were still good friends that Miss Stein made the remark about the lost generation. She had some ignition trouble with the old Model T Ford she then drove and the young man who worked in the garage and had served in the last year of the war had not been adept, or perhaps had not broken the priority of other vehicles, in repairing Miss Stein's Ford. Perhaps he had not realized the importance of Miss Stein's vehicle having the right of immediate repair. Anyway he had not been sérieux and had been corrected severely by the patron of the garage after Miss Stein's protest. The patron had said to him, 'You are all a génération perdue.' 'That's what you are. That's what you all are,' Miss Stein said. 'All of you young people who served in the war. You are a lost generation.' 'Really?' I said. 'You are,' she insisted. 'You have no respect for anything. You drink yourselves to death ..." -Ernest Hemingway
"Don't think, old man,' he said aloud. 'Sail on this course and take it when it comes'.But I must think, he thought. Because it is all I have left." -Ernest Hemingway
"They spoke of her as a contestant or a place or even an enemy. But the old man always thought of her as feminine and as something that gave or withheld great favours, and if she did wild or wicked things it was because she could not help them. The moon affects her as it does a woman, he thought." -Ernest Hemingway
"szemhatára csak a mát, a ma éjszakát, s a holnapot, és ismét csak a mát, a ma éjszakát, a holnapot foglalhatja magában, még legjobb esetben is. Ezért okosabbat nem tehet, hálásan elfogad minden percet." -Ernest Hemingway
"You love. And what about that you were talking to me all those nights? That's not love. Those are only passion and lust. When man loves, then he wishes to do something for that. He wants to sacrifice. And you want to serve." -Ernest Hemingway
"You are not supposed to like things. Only to understand," -Ernest Hemingway
"This is all very dull, I would not state it except that you ask for it." -Ernest Hemingway
"Night plans aren't any good in the morning. The way you think at night is no good in the morning." -Ernest Hemingway
"The world breaks every one and afterward many are strong at the broken places. But those that will not break it kills." -Ernest Hemingway
"He died, as the Spanish phrase has it, full of illusions. He had not had time in his life to lose any of them, nor even, at the end, to complete an act of contrition. He had not even had time to be disappointed in the Garbo picture which disappointed all Madrid for a week.""()" -Ernest Hemingway
"Don't ever kid yourself with too much dialectics." -Ernest Hemingway
"Znam da noć nije isto što i dan:da su stvari različite,da se ono što čovjek osjeća noću,danju ne može objasniti,jer tada to ne postoji,a za osamljene ljude,kad njihova osamljenost jednom uzme maha,noć može biti vrijeme užasa." -Ernest Hemingway
"a brave man is always frightened three times by a lion; when he first sees his track, when he first hears him roar and when he first confronts him." -Ernest Hemingway
"You go along your whole life and they seem as though they mean something and they always end up not meaning anything." -Ernest Hemingway
"more than shame he felt cold, hollow fear in him. The fear was still there like a cold slimy hollow in all the emptiness where once his confidence had been and it made him feel sick. It was still there with him now. It" -Ernest Hemingway
"He was beautiful, the old man remembered, and he had stayed." -Ernest Hemingway
"Az – bólintott Pablo. Valami furcsa neve volt. Ilyesmi. Mi van vele? – Áprilisban meghalt. – Előbb-utóbb mindenkire sor kerül morogta Pablo sötéten. – Így végezzük mi mindnyájan. – Minden ember így végzi – állapította meg Alselmo. – Eddig még mindenki így végezte." -Ernest Hemingway
"But living was a field of grain blowing in the wind on the side of a hill. Living was a hawk in the sky. Living was an earthen jar of water in the dust of the threshing with the grain flailed out and the chaff blowing. Living was a horse between your legs and a carbine under one leg and a hill and a valley and a stream with trees along it and the far side of the valley and the hills beyond." -Ernest Hemingway
"Nobody knows what tribes we came from nor what our tribal inheritance is nor what the mysteries were in the woods where the people lived that we came from. All we know is that we do not know. We know nothing about what happens to us in the nights." -Ernest Hemingway
"De az okos embernek néha be kell rúgnia, hogy kibírja a bolondok között." -Ernest Hemingway
"Scott was a man then who looked like a boy with a face between handsome and pretty... The mouth worried you until you knew him and then it worried you more." -Ernest Hemingway
"— Mas o homem não foi feito para a derrota — disse em voz alta. — Um homem pode ser destruído, mas nunca derrotado" -Ernest Hemingway
"And I know old songs such as the loss of John Jacob Astor on the Titanic when sunk by an iceberg and I would be glad to sing them rather than that no peas no rice song if you so wish." -Ernest Hemingway
"I had always expected to become devout. All my family died very devout. But somehow it does not come.' 'It's too early.' 'Maybe it is too late. Perhaps I have outlived my religious feeling.' 'My own comes only at night.' 'Then too you are in love. Do not forget that is a religious feeling." -Ernest Hemingway
"Gondold el: ha volna Isten, soha nem engedte volna azt a sok mindent, amit én láttam, a két szememmel." -Ernest Hemingway
"You know. Don't pretend you don't know." -Ernest Hemingway
"استطاع أن يسترجع الشعور بالحياة عندما شعر بالألم" -Ernest Hemingway
"لماذا يستيقظ من تقدمت بهم السن مبكرا ؟! ألكي يفوزوا بيوم أطول عن الآخرين ؟" -Ernest Hemingway
"That was where our fishing began" -Ernest Hemingway
"Don't forget to tell Pedrico the head is his." -Ernest Hemingway
"Ha valóban úgy szereted ezt a lányt, ahogy mondod, próbáld meg még jobban szeretni, hogy e szerelem ereje kárpótoljon a jövőért, örökkévalóságáért. Érted? Valaha az emberek egész életüket szentelhették az ilyesféléknek, neked most be kell érned két éjszakával. Két éjszakával. Két éjszakában kell elférnie a szeretetnek, tisztességnek, gondoskodásnak. Jónak – rossznak. Betegségnek és halálnak. Vagy nem így mondták? Jóban – rosszban. Betegségben – egészségben. Ásó-kapa választ el benneteket egymástól." -Ernest Hemingway
"I learned one thing.''What?''Never to go on trips with anyone you do not love." -Ernest Hemingway
"It was hard work walking uphill. His muscles ached and the day was hot but Nick felt happy. He felt he had left everything behind, the need for thinking, the need to write, other needs. It was all back of him." -Ernest Hemingway
"... and with the pain the horror had gone and all he felt now was a great tiredness and anger that this was the end of it. For this, that now was coming, he had very little curiosity.For years it had obsessed him; but now it meant nothing in itself. It was strange how easy being tired enough made it." -Ernest Hemingway
"And tell me, who is the greatest writer in America?""""My husband,"" said my wife." -Ernest Hemingway
"Yes. But we really ought to know it. How it's run. How it works. Who are the crooks and the tyrants and how to get rid of them." -Ernest Hemingway
"what is the benefit of this, that we win the war, but lose our goals from the revolution" -Ernest Hemingway
"Úgy érzi, az övé kivételes eset. Vagy talán csak azért, mert vele történt?" -Ernest Hemingway
"-You never look old.-The body is that which grows old. The spirit is neither older, nor much wiser." -Ernest Hemingway
"Nicholas Adams drove on through the town along the empty, brick-paved street ... on under the heavy trees of the small town that are a part of your heart if it is your town and you have walked under them, but that are only too heavy, that shut out the sun and that dampen the houses for a stranger." -Ernest Hemingway
"The thousand times he had proved it meant nothing. Now he was proving it again." -Ernest Hemingway
"THE GAMBLER,THE NUN & THE RADIOYes, and music is the opium of the people." -Ernest Hemingway
"Now he would never write the things that he had saved to write until he knew enough to write them well. Well, he would not have to fail at trying to write them either.Maybe you could never write them, and that was why you put them off and delayed the starting. Well he would never know, now." -Ernest Hemingway
"«I wish I had a stone for the knife,» the old man said after he had checked the lashing on the oar butt. «I should have brought a stone.» You should have brought many things, he thought. But you did not bring them, old man. Now is no time to think of what you do not have. Think of what you can do with what there is." -Ernest Hemingway
"There's no one thing that's true. It's all true." -Ernest Hemingway
"We are all broke...that's how the light gets in." -Ernest Hemingway
"Fish,' he said softly, aloud, 'I'll stay with you until I am dead." -Ernest Hemingway
"For one who had afición he could forgive anything." -Ernest Hemingway
"The sun was out and the day was bright." -Ernest Hemingway
"You need the devotion to your work that a priest of God has for his." -Ernest Hemingway
"Now I don't give a shit I lost him,"" David said. ""I don't care about the records. I just thought I did. I'm glad that he's all right and that I'm all right. We aren't enemies."" ""I'm glad you told us,"" Thomas Hudson said. ""Thank you very much, Mr. Davis for what you said when I first lost him,"" David said with his eyes still shut. Thomas Hudson never knew what it was that Roger had said to him." -Ernest Hemingway
"Dentuso je bio okrutan, vješt, snažan i pametan. Ali ja sam bio pametniji od njega. A možda i nisam. Možda sam bio samo bolje oboružan. - Nemoj sad razmišljati, stari - reče starac. - Plovi samo dalje i ne daj se kad opet dođu!Ali moram razmišljati, pomisli. Ništa mi drugo ne preostaje. To, i bejzbol." -Ernest Hemingway
"Write hard and clear about what hurts" -Ernest Hemingway
"Todo, lo bueno y lo malo, deja un vacío cuando se interrumpe. Pero si se trata de algo malo, el vacío va llenándose por sí solo. Mientras que el vacío de algo bueno sólo puede llenarse descubriendo algo mejor." -Ernest Hemingway
"When people realise how bad it is they cannot do anything to stop it because they go crazy." -Ernest Hemingway
"His father, who ran his life more disastrously than any man that he had ever know, gave marvelous advice. He distilled it out of the bitter mash of all his previous mistakes with the freshening additions of the new mistakes he was about to make and he gave it with an accuracy and precision that carried the authority of a man who had heard all the more grisly provisions of his sentence and gave it no more importance than he had given to the fine print on a transatlantic steamship ticket." -Ernest Hemingway
"I can't stand it to think my life is going so fast and I'm not really living it.''Nobody ever lives their life all the way up except bull-fighters." -Ernest Hemingway
"The concierge, before she became a concierge, had owned a drink-selling concession at the Paris race-courses. Her life-work lay in the pelouse, but she kept an eye on the people of the pesage, and she took great pride in telling me which of my guests were well brought up, which were of good family, who were sportsmen, a French word pronounced with the accent on the men. The only trouble was that people who did not fall into any of those three cat-egories were very liable to be told there was no one home, chez Barnes. One of my friends, an extremely underfed-looking painter, who was obviously to Madame Duzinell neither well brought up, of good family, nor a sportsman, wrote me a letter asking if I could get him a pass to get by the concierge so he could come up and see me occasionally in the evenings." -Ernest Hemingway
"You know I do know how he feels. He can't believe it didn't mean anything." -Ernest Hemingway
"œThe sadness will dissipate as the sun rises. It is like a mist.â€" -Ernest Hemingway
"We could go into the hotel and register as Doctor and Mrs. Livingstone I presume, he thought." -Ernest Hemingway
"He had not known just how greatly he had been divided and separated because once he started to work he wrote from an inner core which could not be split nor even marked nor scratched. He knew about this and it was his strength since all the rest of him could be riven." -Ernest Hemingway
"Если тебе повезло и ты в молодости жил в Париже, то, где бы ты ни был потом, он до конца дней твоих останется с тобой, потому что Париж - это праздник, который всегда с тобой." -Ernest Hemingway
"-It's not cowardly to know what is foolish.-Neither is foolish to know what is cowardly." -Ernest Hemingway
"Man is not made for defeat. A man can be destroyed but not defeated" -Ernest Hemingway
"Ahora: una palabra curiosa para expresar todo un mundo y toda una vida" -Ernest Hemingway
"他繼續閱讀。我們下一代的下代—他們怎麼樣呢？他們是什麼人？我們必須找出新方法取得在太陽底下的空間。這是要用戰爭來達成，還是可以用和平的方法辦到？"" '我們要強壯的人—還是要有教養的人？"" ""豐富心靈生活，為新觀念欣喜，為不尋常的傳奇著迷。"" 《沒有女人的男人 - 一成不變的故事》" -Ernest Hemingway
"How did you go bankrupt?"" Bill asked. ""Two ways,"" Mike said. ""Gradually and then suddenly." -Ernest Hemingway
"When people talk, listen completely. Don't be thinking what you're going to say. Most people never listen. Nor do they observe. You should be able to go into a room and when you come out, know everything that you saw there and not only that. If that room gave you any feeling you should know exactly what it was that gave you that feeling. Try that for practice." -Ernest Hemingway
"You know it makes one feel rather good deciding not to be a bitch."" ""Yes."" ""It's sort of what we have instead of God."" ""Some people have God,"" I said. ""Quite a lot."" ""He never worked very well with me."" ""Should we have another Martini?"" The barman shook up two more Martinis and poured them out into fresh glasses." -Ernest Hemingway
"Vaguely he wanted a girl but he did not want to have to work to get her. He would have liked to have a girl but he did not want to have spend a long time getting her. He did not want to get into the intrigue and the politics. He did not want to have to do any courting. He did not want to tell any more lies. It wasn't worth it. He did not want any consequences. He did not want any consequences ever again. He wanted to live along without consequences." -Ernest Hemingway
"After supper we went up-stairs and smoked and read in bed to keep warm. Once in the night I woke and heard the wind blowing. It felt good to be warm and in bed." -Ernest Hemingway
"How should a woman act when she discovers her husband is a bloody coward? She's damn cruel but they're all cruel. They govern, of course, and to govern one has to be cruel sometimes." -Ernest Hemingway
"Direi só o que tu desejares que eu diga e só farei o que tu desejares que euu faça, e tu unca quererás outra, pois não?---------------------Catherine em O Adeus Às Armas, Ernest Hemingway" -Ernest Hemingway
"Ինքնաթիռի ոռնոցն այնքան ուժեղ էր, որ նա չէր կարողանում նույնիսկ իր մտքերը լսել:" -Ernest Hemingway
"«No te preocupes. Hasta ahora has escrito y seguirás escribiendo. Lo único que tienes que hacer es escribir una frase verídica. Escribe" -Ernest Hemingway
"all I want out of wines is to enjoy them." -Ernest Hemingway
"oakum" -Ernest Hemingway
"Bill said something to Cohn about what to do and how to look so he would not mind the horses. Bill had seen one season of bull-fights." -Ernest Hemingway
"Todo hombre que empieza a vivir de una manera seria por dentro, empieza también a llevar una vida más sencilla por fuera" -Ernest Hemingway
"They should be rescued from ignorance.' 'Don't talk nonsense. Education is an opium of the people. You ought to know that. You've had a little.' 'You do not believe in education?' 'No,' said Mr. Frazer. 'In knowledge, yes.' 'I do not follow you." -Ernest Hemingway
"Whether one has fear of it or not, one's death is difficult to accept." -Ernest Hemingway
"He knew his neighbors in that quarter then because they all were poor." -Ernest Hemingway
"The world break everyone, and afterward, many are strong at the broken places." -Ernest Hemingway
"By then I knew that everything good and bad left emptiness when it stopped. But if it was bad, the emptiness filled up by itself. If it was good you could only fill it by finding something better." -Ernest Hemingway
"Keep warm old man,' the boy said. 'Remember we are in September.' 'The month when the great fish come,' the old man said." -Ernest Hemingway
"There is nothing to writing. All you do is sit down to a typewriter and bleed." -Ernest Hemingway
"— Քա՛ծ,— ասաց նա,— հարուստ քա՛ծ։ Սա պոեզիա է։ Հիմա ես լի եմ պոեզիայով։ Ապականությամբ ու պոեզիայով։ Ապականվա՛ծ պոեզիայով։" -Ernest Hemingway
"Vamos, I'm not ugly. I was born ugly. All my life I have been ugly. You, Inglés, who know nothing about women. Do you know how an ugly woman feels? Do you know what it is to be ugly all your life and inside to feel that you are beautiful? It is very rare," -Ernest Hemingway
"Was there ever a people whose leaders were as truly their enemies as this one?" -Ernest Hemingway
"too." -Ernest Hemingway
"And if I do it you'll be happy and things will be like they were and you'll love me?I love you now. You know I love you." -Ernest Hemingway
"Debiste haber traído muchas cosas –pensó–. Pero no las has traído, viejo. Ahora no es el momento de pensar en lo que no tienes. Piensa en lo que puedes hacer con lo que hay""." -Ernest Hemingway
"Nessuno dovrebbe mai restar solo, da vecchio." -Ernest Hemingway
"Lumea ne înfrânge pe toți și după aceea, în cazul multora, locul în care au fost înfrânți se întărește. Însă pe cei pe care nu-i poate înfrânge îi omoară. Îi omoară pe cei foarte buni, pe cei foarte blânzi și pe cei foarte curajoși, fără să stea să aleagă. Dacă nu ești printre aceștia, poți fi sigur că o să te omoare și pe tine, dar că nu-i nici o grabă." -Ernest Hemingway
"I don't love anybody,"" Krebs said.It wasn't any good. He couldn't tell her, he couldn't make her see it. It was silly tohave said it. He had only hurt her." -Ernest Hemingway
"I will draw a sight draft on my grandfather, I said. A what? A sight draft. He has to pay or I go to jail. Mr. Cunningham at the bank does it. I live by sight drafts. Can a grandfather jail a patriotic grandson who is dying that Italy may live? Live the American Garibaldi, said Rinaldi. Viva the sight drafts, I said. We must be quiet, said the major. Already we have been asked many times to be quiet..." -Ernest Hemingway
"He had been cruel and unjust in the afternoon. She was a fine woman, marvellous really. And just then it occurred to him that he was going to die." -Ernest Hemingway
"Madame, there is no remedy for anything in life. Death is a sovereign remedy for all misfortunes and we'd do best to leave all discoursing now and get a table.---Within our time scientists may well abolish these old diseases and we'll live to see the end of all morality. But meantime I would rather dine on suckling pig at Botin's than to sit and think of the casualties my friends have suffered." -Ernest Hemingway
"Morir no tenía importancia ni se hacía de la muerte ninguna idea aterradora. Pero vivir era un campo de trigo balanceándose a impulsos del viento en el flanco de una colina. Vivir era un halcón en el cielo. Vivir era un botijo entre el polvo del grano segado y la paja que vuela. Vivir era un caballo entre las piernas y una carabina al hombro, y una colina, y un valle, y un arroyo bordeado de árboles, y el otro lado del valle con otras colinas a lo lejos." -Ernest Hemingway
"Dante only made crazy people feel they could write great poetry. That was not true of course but then almost nothing was true and especially not in Africa. In Africa a thing is true at first light and a lie by noon and you have no more respect for it than for the lovely, perfect weed-fringed lake you see across the sun-baked salt plain. You have walked across that plain in the morning and you know that no such lake is there. But now it is there absolutely true, beautiful and believable." -Ernest Hemingway
"No one should be alone in their old age, he thought. But it is unavoidable. I must remember to eat the tuna before he spoils in order to keep strong. Remember, no matter how little you want to, that you must eat him in the morning. Remember, he said to himself." -Ernest Hemingway
"And it's a lot of fun, too, to be in love.' 'Do you think so?' her eyes looked flat again. 'I don't mean fun that way. In a way it's an enjoyable feeling.' 'No,' she said. 'I think it's hell on earth.' 'It's good to see each other.' 'No. I don't think it is.' 'Don't you want to?' 'I have to." -Ernest Hemingway
"Quit thinking like a schizophrenic." -Ernest Hemingway
"dorado." -Ernest Hemingway
"Often a man wishes to be alone and a girl wishes to be alone too and if they love each other they are jealous of that in each other, but I can truly say we never felt that. We could feel alone when we were together, alone against the others. It has only happened to me like that once." -Ernest Hemingway
"Își împreună mâinile și își atinse palmele una de alta. Nu erau moarte și era de-ajuns să le deschidă și să le închidă ca să simtă durerea vieții." -Ernest Hemingway
"Wondeful how one loses track of the days up here in the mountains." -Ernest Hemingway
"feeling.' 'No,' she said. 'I think it's hell on earth." -Ernest Hemingway
"She was a Canadian and had all their easy social graces." -Ernest Hemingway
"sun had not yet dried" -Ernest Hemingway
"it is much easier to be the opposition to a government than to run the government yourself." -Ernest Hemingway
"mechanically." -Ernest Hemingway
"《一成不變的故事》""他繼續閱讀。我們下一代的下代—他們怎麼樣呢？他們是什麼人？我們必須找出新方法取得在太陽底下的空間。這是要用戰爭來達成，還是可以用和平的方法辦到？"" '我們要強壯的人—還是要有教養的人？"" ""豐富心靈生活，為新觀念欣喜，為不尋常的傳奇著迷。"" 《沒有女人的男人》" -Ernest Hemingway
"El mundo nos rompe a todos, mas después, algunos se vuelven fuertes en los lugares rotos" -Ernest Hemingway
"tried to break his face down and describe it but i could only get the eyes. under the black hat, when i had first seen them, the eyes had been those of an unsuccessful rapist." -Ernest Hemingway
"When I had written a novel before, the one that had been lost in the bag stolen at the Gare de Lyon, I still had the lyric facility of boyhood that was as perishable and as deceptive as youth was. I knew that it was probably a good thing that it was lost, but I knew too that I must write a novel." -Ernest Hemingway
"We are all broken, that's how the light gets in" -Ernest Hemingway
"O Lord, to comport myself as a man tomorrow in the day of battle." -Ernest Hemingway
"In the fall the war was always there, but we did not go to it any more. It was cold in the fall in Milan and the dark came very early. Then the electric lights would come on, and it was pleasant along the streets looking in the windows. There was much game hanging outside the shops, and the snow powdered in the fur of the foxes and the wind blew their tails. The deer hung stiff and heavy and empty, and small birds blew in the wind and the wind turned their feathers. It was a cold fall and the wind came down from the mountains." -Ernest Hemingway
"Ամեն մարդ կարիք ունի սիրտը մեկին բաց անելու,- ասաց կինը:- Առաջ կրոն կար, ուրիշ անհեթեթություններ կային: Հիմա յուրաքանչյուր մարդ պետք է ունենա մի մտերիմ, որի հետ կարողանա անկեղծորեն խոսել, որովհետև ինչ արժանիքներ էլ ունենաս, միայնակությունդ զգում ես:" -Ernest Hemingway
"Lincoln just freed the slaves on a bet. The Dred Scott case was framed by the Anti-Saloon League. Sex explains it all." -Ernest Hemingway
"É uma ilusão a sabedoria dos velhos. A sabedoria não cresce com a idade. O que cresce é o espírito de cautela. —Talvez a sabedoria seja isso." -Ernest Hemingway
"your own death seemed of complete unimportance; only a thing to be avoided because it would interfere with the performance of your duty." -Ernest Hemingway
"With the fishermen and the life on the river, the beautiful barges with their own life on board, the tugs with their smokestacks that folded back to pass under the bridges, pulling a tow of barges, the great elms on the stone banks of the river, the plane trees and in some places the poplars, I could never be lonely along the river. With so many trees in the city, you could see the spring coming each day until a night of warm wind would bring it suddenly in one morning. Sometimes the heavy cold rains would beat it back so that it would seem that it would never come and that you were losing a season out of your life. This was the only truly sad time in Paris because it was unnatural. You expected to be sad in the fall. Part of you died each year when the leaves fell from the trees and their branches were bare against the wind and the cold, wintry light. But you knew there would always be the spring, as you knew the river would flow again after it was frozen. When the cold rains kept on and killed the spring, it was as though a young person had died for no reason. In" -Ernest Hemingway
"I have worked all my life. In all that remains of my life I must work. I have no complaints against work. To work is normal." -Ernest Hemingway
"Que cosan las rajas, yo entro por los ojos." -Ernest Hemingway
"Te oczy pod czarnym kapeluszem, kiedy je pierwszy raz zobaczyłem, były oczami zawiedzionego gwałciciela.Miał twarz, która przypominała mi żabę - nie ropuchę, ale taką zwykłą żabę,dla której Paryż był za wielką kałużą.Wszystkie pokolenia są na wskutek czegoś stracone i zawsze były, i zawsze będą." -Ernest Hemingway
"But life isn't hard to manage when you've nothing to lose." -Ernest Hemingway
"Do you have no big proprietors?' Andrés asked. 'Many.' 'Then there must be abuses.' 'Certainly. There are many abuses.' 'But you will do away with them?' 'We try to more and more. But there are many abuses still.' 'But there are not great estates that must be broken up?' 'Yes. But there are those who believe that taxes will break them up.' 'How?' Robert Jordan, wiping out the stew bowl with bread, explained how the income tax and inheritance tax worked. 'But the big estates remain. Also there are taxes on the land,' he said. 'But surely the big proprietors and the rich will make a revolution against such taxes. Such taxes appear to me to be revolutionary. They will revolt against the government when they see that they are threatened, exactly as the fascists have done here,' Primitivo said. 'It" -Ernest Hemingway
"how long now it would be before we would see the enemy, and listening all the while for the first noises that would signal that ever mysterious event called contact" -Ernest Hemingway
"great, high, and unbelievably white in the sun, was the square top of Kilimanjaro." -Ernest Hemingway
"YOU DO NOT know how long you are in a river when the current moves swiftly." -Ernest Hemingway
"Age is my alarm clock,"" the old man said. ""Why do old men wake so early? Is it to have one longer day?" -Ernest Hemingway
"The things that happened could only have happened during a fiesta. Everything became quite unreal finally and it seemed as though nothing could have any consequences. It seemed out of place to think of consequences during the fiesta." -Ernest Hemingway
"Tačiau naktį pabudo ir apkabino ją stipriai, tartum ji būtų buvusi visas jo gyvenimas; visas gyvenimas, kurio jis netenka. Laikė ją glėby jausdamas, jog ji - visas jo gyvenimas; o taip ir buvo iš tiesų. Tačiau ji miegojo kietai ir nepabudo." -Ernest Hemingway
"We both touched wood on the café table and the wait came to see what it was we wanted. But what we wanted not he, nor anyone else, nor knocking on wood or marble, as this café table-top was, could ever bring us. But we did not know it that night and we were very happy." -Ernest Hemingway
"Just now, I am very busy on a study of Calvo Sotelo. He was a very good fascist; a true Spanish fascist. Franco and these other people are not. I have been studying all of Sotelo's writing and speeches. He was very intelligent and it was very intelligent that he was killed." -Ernest Hemingway
"I was only thinking how small obstacles seemed that once were so big." -Ernest Hemingway
"Dying was nothing and he had no picture of it nor fear of it in his mind. But living was a field of grain blowing in the wind on the side of a hill. Living was a hawk in the sky. Living was an earthen jar of water in the dust of the threshing with the grain flailed out and the chaff blowing. Living was a horse between your legs and a carbine under one leg and a hill and a valley and the hills beyond." -Ernest Hemingway
"Juntó las manos y sintió las palmas. No estaban muertas y le bastaba con abrirlas y cerrarlas para notar el dolor de la vida." -Ernest Hemingway
"The room they lived in looked like the painting of Van Gogh's room at Arles except there was a double bed and two big windows and you could look out across the water and the marsh and sea meadows to the white town and bright beach of Palavas." -Ernest Hemingway
"Цей наказ дуже чіткий. Занадто чіткий. Але ти не маєш права тривожитися й не маєш права боятися. Бо якщо дозволиш собі розкіш природного страху, він заразить усіх, хто має працювати з тобою." -Ernest Hemingway
"Նորից ժպտաց Մարիային, բայց դա դեռևս ժպիտ չէր, ընդամենը այտերի ու բերանի կողքերի մաշկն էր ձգվել:" -Ernest Hemingway
"Կրթություն, մտածեց նա: Ի՞նչ կրթություն է իմ ունեցածը, ընդամենը տարրական գիտելիքներ: Տարրական: Ափսոս է, եթե այսօր մեռնեմ, որովհետև հիմա ինչ որ բան արդեն գիտեմ: Եվ ինչ որ բան հիմա միայն սովորած լինելուդ պատճառն արդյո՞ք այն չէ, որ ժամանակի կարճության պատճառով գերզգայուն ես դարձել:" -Ernest Hemingway
"I have all the poems stashed away' ... 'You were very thoughtful about them, Hem. It is not that things should be published. But I believe now that it is important that they exist. We've both existed quite a lot haven't we Hem?" -Ernest Hemingway
"Es un oficio bastante malo,' he repeated, 'loving me.''Yes. But it is the only one I have.''Don't you write any more poetry?''It was young girl poetry. Like young girl painting. Everyone is talented at a certain age.'At what age do you become old in this country, the Colonel thought. No one is ever old in Venice, but they grow up very fast. I grew up very rapidly in the Veneto myself and I was never as old as I was at twenty-one." -Ernest Hemingway
"Нужно находить главное в себе самом, где бы ты ни был." -Ernest Hemingway
"Նա երբեք չի ասել իրեն՝ ես այս ինչ բանն արեցի։ Միշտ ասել է՝ ես կարո՛ղ էի այս ինչ բանն անել։" -Ernest Hemingway
"Er þér sama um líf og þjáningar annarrar mannveru?""""Þín að minstakosti.""""Þú ert kvikindi.""""Já.""""Ég hélt þú myndir hjálpa mér Hem.""""Ég myndi feginn vilja skjóta þig." -Ernest Hemingway
"But he was very worried now and he thought what will become of us if things have gone this wildly and this dangerously and this fast? What can there be that will not bum out in a fire that rages like that? We were happy and I am sure she was happy. But who ever knows? And who are you to judge and who participated and who accepted the change and lived it? If that is what she wants who are you not to wish her to have it? You're lucky to have a wife like her and a sin is what you feel bad after and you don't feel bad. Not with the wine you don't feel bad, he told himself, and what will you drink when the wine won't cover for you?" -Ernest Hemingway
"She did not like to hear the really bad nor tragic things, but no one does, and having seen them I did not care to talk about them unless she wanted to know how the world was going. She wanted to know the gay part of how the world was going; never the real, never the bad." -Ernest Hemingway
"Շատ հեշտ է անզգա լինել ցերեկը, իսկ գիշերը դա հնարավոր չէ:" -Ernest Hemingway
"If you want the people to like you, you just need to spend some money." -Ernest Hemingway
"They carried me down a long hallway and into a room with drawn blinds. It smelled of new furniture." -Ernest Hemingway
"ولی انسان برای شکست آفریده نشده. انسان ممکن است نابود شود، اما شکست نمیخورد." -Ernest Hemingway
"Mike had a way of getting an intensity of feeling into shaking hands." -Ernest Hemingway
"Proceed to reveal,' the Gran Maestro said. 'I proceed to reveal,' the Colonel said. 'Listen carefully, Daughter. This is the Supreme Secret. Listen. ‘Love is love and fun is fun. But it is always so" -Ernest Hemingway
"Վատն այն չէր, որ նա ստում էր, վատն այն էր, որ ճշմարտություն չկար։" -Ernest Hemingway
"It is silly not to hope" -Ernest Hemingway
"But this is how Paris was in the early days when we were very poor and very happy." -Ernest Hemingway
"If people bring so much courage to this world that world has to kill them to break them, so of course it kills them. The world breaks every one and afterward many are strong at the broken places. But those that will not break it kills. It kills the very good and the very gentle and the very brave impartially. If you are none of these you can be sure it will kill you too but there will be no special hurry." -Ernest Hemingway
"¿Quién va a corromperle a usted? ¿Quién corrompe a un joven como usted, que bebe alcohol de quemar, con una botella de Marsala?" -Ernest Hemingway
"You know it makes one feel rather good deciding not to be a bitch.' 'Yes.' 'It's sort of what we have instead of God." -Ernest Hemingway
"The spectacle of its governing is at present more comic than tragic; but the tragedy is very close." -Ernest Hemingway
"De todas las formas en que uno puede ser herido, la mía era la más ridícula." -Ernest Hemingway
"The only place where you could see life and death, i.e., violent death now that the wars were over, was in the bull ring and I wanted very much to go to Spain where I could study it." -Ernest Hemingway
"Oh, Jake,' Brett said, 'we could have had such a damned good time together." -Ernest Hemingway
"But, thank God, they are not as intelligent as we who kill them; although they are more noble and more able. The" -Ernest Hemingway
"Mansfield was like near-beer. It was better to drink water." -Ernest Hemingway
"Pablo le enseñó la llave y don Pepe se quedó mirándola" -Ernest Hemingway
"I'm sorry. I've got a nasty tongue. I never mean it when I say nasty things." -Ernest Hemingway
"An echo would die of lonesomeness out there." -Ernest Hemingway
"Por entonces, ya había descubierto que todo, lo bueno y lo malo, deja un vacío cuando se interrumpe. Pero si se trata de algo malo, el vacío va llenándose por sí solo. Mientras que el vacío de algo bueno sólo puede llenarse descubriendo algo mejor." -Ernest Hemingway
"مرد نابود میشه ولی شکست نمیخوره" -Ernest Hemingway
"If you're not tired, fish,' he said aloud, 'you must be very strange." -Ernest Hemingway
"... Og á eftir skulum við lesa og síðan fara í rúmið og vera saman.""""Og aldrei skulum við elska neinn nema hvort annað.""""Nei. Aldrei." -Ernest Hemingway
"Women made such swell friends. Awfully swell. In the first place, you had to be in love with a woman to have a basis of friendship. I had been having Brett for a friend. I had not been thinking about her side of it. I had been getting something for nothing. That only delayed the presentation of the bill. The bill always came. That was one of the swell things you could count on." -Ernest Hemingway
"Everyone needs to do what they can do, by how truly they can do." -Ernest Hemingway
"You'll not fish without eating while I'm alive." -Ernest Hemingway
"But man is not made for defeat,' he said. 'A man can be destroyed but not defeated."" THE OLD MAN AND THE SEA" -Ernest Hemingway
"And what beat you, he thought. ""Nothing,"" he said aloud. ""I went out too far." -Ernest Hemingway
"Antonio said, 'Do you have any other orders?' 'Just keep your bowels open and try to lead clean lives. We'll be back in a little while. Come on, you two gentlemen bastards. Let's go." -Ernest Hemingway
"The uncertainty, the enlargement of the feeling of being uncertain, as when, through a misunderstanding of possible dates, one does not know whether the guests are really coming to a party, that had been with him ever since he had dispatched Andrés with the report to Golz, had all dropped from him now. He was sure now that the festival would not be cancelled. It's much better to be sure, he thought. It's always much better to be sure." -Ernest Hemingway
"„Nu e mare lucru să scrii. Nu faci decât să stai jos în fața unei mașini de scris și să sângerezi." -Ernest Hemingway
"What rot, I could hear Brett say it. What rot! When you were with the English you got into the habit of using English expressions in your thinking. The English spoken language — the upper classes, anyway — must have fewer words than the Eskimo. Of course I didn't know anything about the Eskimo. Maybe the Eskimo was a fine language. Say the Cherokee. I didn't know anything about the Cherokee, either. The English talked with inflected phrases. One phrase to mean everything. I liked them, though. I liked the way they talked." -Ernest Hemingway
"I gave Brett what for, you know. I said if she would go about with Jews and bull-fighters and such people, she must expect trouble." -Ernest Hemingway
"He was not at all afraid of dying but he was angry at being trapped on this hill which was only utilizable as a place to die." -Ernest Hemingway
"He was in despair.""""What about?""""Nothing.""""How do you know it was nothing?""""He has plenty of money." -Ernest Hemingway
"As he had originally planned to do, Hemingway took the external details of the story and presented them from the point of view of the fisherman. He thus made it possible for the reader to participate imaginatively in the story. That effect was always Hemingway's primary aim as a writer." -Ernest Hemingway
"The three of us sat at the table, and it seemed as though about six people were missing." -Ernest Hemingway
"No estaré nunca más dispuesto que ahora. »El cura le bendijo mientras hablaba y le bendijo de nuevo cuando se levantó, sin dejar de rezar, y le tendió un crucifijo para que lo besara, y don Ricardo lo besó y luego se volvió y le dijo a Pablo: 'No estaré nunca tan bien dispuesto como ahora. Tú, cabrón de mala leche, vamos'. »Don Ricardo era un hombre pequeño, de cabellos grises y de cuello recio, y llevaba la camisa abierta. Tenía las piernas arqueadas de tanto montar a caballo. 'Adiós —dijo a los que estaban de rodillas—; no estéis tristes. Morir no es nada. Lo único malo es morir en manos de esta canalla. No me toques —dijo a Pablo—. No me toques con tu fusil." -Ernest Hemingway
"A kidder gets to be an awful thing around a camp if his stuff goes sort of sour." -Ernest Hemingway
"Но Париж е безкрайно многолик и всеки, който е живял в него, го помни по своему, не тъй както другите. Ние винаги се връщахме в него, както и да се променяхме, както и да се изменяше той, независимо дали ни беше трудно или лесно да отидем там. Париж винаги си заслужваше това – каквото и да му отдадеш, ще получиш равностойна замяна. Но аз описвам какъв беше Париж в ония далечни дни, когато бяхме много бедни и много щастливи." -Ernest Hemingway
"Preoccuparsi è dannoso come aver paura; serve solo a far le cose più difficili." -Ernest Hemingway
"The odor of citronella is not offensive to people. It smells like gun oil. But the bugs do hate it." -Ernest Hemingway
"Don't you ever get the feeling that all your life is going by and you're not taking advantage of it?" -Ernest Hemingway
"I misjudged you,' Harvey said. 'You're not a moron. You're only a case of arrested development." -Ernest Hemingway
"His father had frost in his beard in cold weather and in hot weather he sweated very much. He liked to work in the sun on the farm because he did not have to and he loved manual work, which Nick did not." -Ernest Hemingway
"When I was writing, it was necessary for me to read after I had written. If you kept thinking about it, you would lose the thing you were writing before you could go on with it the next day. It was necessary to get exercise, to be tired in the body, and it was very good to make love with whom you loved. That was better than anything. But afterwards, when you were empty, it was necessary to read in order not to think or worry about your work until you could do it again. I had learned already never to empty the well of my writing, but always to stop when there was still something there in the deep part of the well, and let it refill at night from the springs that fed it." -Ernest Hemingway
"- Quem é que sabe? Desde que não há mais Deus, nem o Seu Filho, tampouco o Espírito Santo, quem perdoa? Eu não sei.- Para você Deus não existe mais?- Não, claro que não. Se Deus existisse, Ele não teria permitido que eu visse o que vi com estes meus olhos. Deixe *eles* ficarem com Deus.- Eles O reivindicaram.- Certamente eu sinto falta Dele, tendo nascido numa família religiosa. Mas hoje um homem dever ser responsável por si mesmo. - Então serás tu mesmo que irás perdoar a tua matança." -Ernest Hemingway
"— Շատ բան, որ ինձ համար միեւնույն է, քեզ համար միեւնույնը չէ։" -Ernest Hemingway
"turned around and looked after her. 'If she did not have her hair cut so short she would be a pretty girl,' he said." -Ernest Hemingway
"Brett vypadala sakra báječně. Měla na sobě pletený pulovr a tvídovou sukni a vlasy měla skartáčované dozadu jako kluk. Ona to všechno začala. Byla stavěná jako závodní jachta a v tom pulovru člověk žádnou její zaoblinu nepřehlíd." -Ernest Hemingway
"must hold his pain where it is, he thought. Mine does not matter. I can control mine. But his pain could drive him mad. After" -Ernest Hemingway
"New means must be discovered to find room for us under the sun. Shall this be done by war or can it be done by peaceful methods? Or will we all have to move to Canada? Our deepest convictions—will Science upset them? Our civilization—is it inferior to older orders of things?" -Ernest Hemingway
"— Սերը նման է աղբանոցի,— ասաց Հարրին,— իսկ ես նման եմ աքլորի, որ ծուղրուղու կանչելու համար բարձրացել է աղբանոցի վրա։" -Ernest Hemingway
"It was hot, but the town had a cool, fresh, early-morning smell and it was pleasant sitting in the café." -Ernest Hemingway
"[A writer] should always try for something that has never been done or that others have tried and failed. Then sometimes, with great luck, they will succeed." -Ernest Hemingway
"I can't stand it to think my life is going so fast and I'm not really living it." -Ernest Hemingway
"Bill was buying shoe-shines for Mike. Bootblacks opened the street door and each one Bill called over and started to work on Mike. ""This is the eleventh time my boots have been polished,"" Mike said. ""I say, Bill is an ass." -Ernest Hemingway
"Everything looked sharp and clear, and the town smelt of the early morning." -Ernest Hemingway
"poules" -Ernest Hemingway
"Primero pides prestado; luego pides limosna." -Ernest Hemingway
"Through the window we saw them, all three arm in arm, going toward the café. Rockets were going up in the square.""I'm going to sit here,"" Brett said.""I'll stay with you,"" Cohn said.""Oh, don't!"" Brett said. ""For God's sake, go off somewhere. Can't you see Jake and I want to talk?""""I didn't,"" Cohn said. ""I thought I'd sit here because I felt a little tight.""""What a hell of a reason for sitting with any one. If you're tight, go to bed. Go on to bed.""""Was I rude enough to him?"" Brett asked. Cohn was gone. ""My God! I'm so sick of him!""""He doesn't add much to the gayety.""""He depresses me so.""""He's behaved very badly.""""Damned badly. He had a chance to behave so well.""""He's probably waiting just outside the door now.""""Yes. He would. You know I do know how he feels. He can't believe it didn't mean anything.""""I know.""""Nobody else would behave as badly. Oh, I'm so sick of the whole thing. And Michael. Michael's been lovely, too.""""It's been damned hard on Mike.""""Yes. But he didn't need to be a swine.""""Everybody behaves badly,"" I said. ""Give them the proper chance.""""You wouldn't behave badly."" Brett looked at me.""I'd be as big an ass as Cohn,"" I said.""Darling, don't let's talk a lot of rot.""""All right. Talk about anything you like.""""Don't be difficult. You're the only person I've got, and I feel rather awful to-night.""""You've got Mike.""""Yes, Mike. Hasn't he been pretty?""""Well,"" I said, ""it's been damned hard on Mike, having Cohn around and seeing him with you.""Don't I know it, darling? Please don't make me feel any worse than I do.""Brett was nervous as I had never seen her before. She kept looking away from me and looking ahead at the wall.""Want to go for a walk?""""Yes. Come on.""I corked up the Fundador bottle and gave it to the bartender.""Let's have one more drink of that,"" Brett said. ""My nerves are rotten.""We each drank a glass of the smooth amontillado brandy.""Come on,"" said Brett.As we came out the door I saw Cohn walk out from under the arcade.""He _was_ there,"" Brett said.""He can't be away from you.""""Poor devil!""""I'm not sorry for him. I hate him, myself.""""I hate him, too,"" she shivered. ""I hate his damned suffering.""We walked arm in arm down the side Street away from the crowd and the lights of the square. The street was dark and wet, and we walked along it to the fortifications at the edge of town. We passed wine-shops with light coming out from their doors onto the black, wet street, and sudden bursts of music.""Want to go in?""""No.""We walked out across the wet grass and onto the stone wall of the fortifications. I spread a newspaper on the stone and Brett sat down." -Ernest Hemingway
"Don't you know it is wrong to kill? Yes. But you do it? Yes. And you still believe absolutely that your cause is right? Yes." -Ernest Hemingway
"...a turtle's heart will beat for hours after he has been cut up andbutchered. But the old man thought, I have such a heart too and my feet andhands are like theirs." -Ernest Hemingway
"When it comes to death, who do you suppose has it easier? Ones with religion or just taking it straight?" -Ernest Hemingway
"In September the first cool nights came, then the days were cool and the leaves on the trees in the park began to turn color and we knew the summer was gone." -Ernest Hemingway
"Mỗi ngày là một ngày mới. Gặp may thì tốt hơn. Nhưng mình ưa sự chính xác. Để khi vận may đến thì mình đã sẵn sàng." -Ernest Hemingway
"He hated injustice as he hated cruelty and he lay in his rage that blinded his mind until gradually the anger died down and the red, black, blinding, killing anger was all gone and his mind now as quiet, empty-calm and sharp, cold-seeing as a man is after he has had sexual intercourse with a woman that he does not love." -Ernest Hemingway
"Հետո հասկացավ, հրաժեշտը չէր անճարակության պատճառը: Հետագա հանդիպման լինելու- չլինելու երկյուղն էր: Հրաժեշտը մասամբ միայն կարող էր այս անչարակության պատճառը լինել, միայն այնքանով, որ հիշեցնում էր ապագա հանդիպման մասին:" -Ernest Hemingway
"It is not bad,' Santiago said. 'And pain does not matter to a man." -Ernest Hemingway
"The Purple Land" -Ernest Hemingway
"You see, Mr. Barnes, it is because I have lived very much that now I can enjoy everything so well." -Ernest Hemingway
"I read the menu mimeographed in purple ink and saw that the plat du jour was cassoulet. It made me hungry to read the name." -Ernest Hemingway
"He had died in a trap that he had helped only a little to set, and they had all betrayed him in their various ways before he died. All sentimental people are betrayed so many times." -Ernest Hemingway
"Seni, uğruna savaştığımız amaçları sevdiğim kadar çok seviyorum. Seni tıpkı özgürlüğü, saygınlığı sevdiğim kadar, bütün insanların çalışma haklarını sevdiğim kadar çok seviyorum." -Ernest Hemingway
"Messier service, messier life." -Ernest Hemingway
"Tu sais, Papa, que les femmes pleurent comme les enfants pissent?" -Ernest Hemingway
"En það ver erfitt að viðurkenna hann sem drykkjuræfil, af þeim sökum hve fullkominn hænuhaus hann var." -Ernest Hemingway
"I write about my now. It is the horses. You have a very interesting now. And you've made me presents of many places and people." -Ernest Hemingway
"Chúng nói về biển như một đối thủ, một địa điểm hay thậm chí là một kẻ thù. Nhưng ông lão thì luôn nghĩ về biển như về một phụ nữ, như cái gì đó có thể ban phát hay chối giữ ơn huệ, và nếu biển làm điều ác độc hay tàn bạo thì bởi lẽ lúc ấy biển không thể nào kìm giữ nổi." -Ernest Hemingway
"Some one had put it in the American Women's Club list as a quaint restaurant on the Paris quais as yet untouched by Americans, so we had to wait forty-five minutes for a table." -Ernest Hemingway
"Strašna je ova ribetina, moram je obuzdati, pomisli. Ne smijem joj dopustiti da postane svjesna svoje snage ni onoga što bi mogla učiniti kad bi potegnula svom snagom. Da sam na njezinu mjestu, sad bih zapeo iz sve snage i povukao pa kud puklo da puklo. Ali one, hvala Bogu, nisu tako pametne ko mi koji ih ubijama, iako su plemenitije i sposobnije od nas." -Ernest Hemingway
"الحظ شيء يأتي في عدة أشكال فمن يمكن أن يتعرف عليه ؟ أود أن آخذ بعضًا من أي شكل من أشكاله وأدفع ما يريدون مقابل ذلك ." -Ernest Hemingway
"it is always a mistake to know an author" -Ernest Hemingway
"Y delante del establo una mujer tenía sobre su falda un pato que había degollado y al que acariciaba dulcemente, mientras que una niña sostenía una taza para recoger la sangre, con la que iban a hacer la salsa, y el pato parecía muy contento, y cuando lo depositaron en el suelo -toda la sangre había caído ya dentro de la taza- el se contoneó dos veces sobre sus patas, y comprendió que estaba muerto. Y nos lo comimos más tarde, relleno y asado, y otros muchos platos también, con el vino de aquel año y del anterior y el gran vino de cuatro años antes, y otros vinos de otros años, cuya memoria he perdido, mientras que los brazos de un espantamoscas artificial, movido por un mecanismo de relojería, giraban y giraban; y hablábamos francés, aunque todos sabíamos mejor el español." -Ernest Hemingway
"no good writer can do his job working in a fascist state, which is built on lies." -Ernest Hemingway
"One can learn about wines and pursue the education of one's palate with great enjoyment all of a lifetime, the palate becoming more educated and capable of appreciation and you having constantly increasing enjoyment and appreciation of wine even though the kidneys may weaken, the big toe become painful, the finger joints stiffen, until finally, just when you love it the most you are finally forbidden wine entirely." -Ernest Hemingway
"He was an old man who fished alone in a skiff in the Gulf Stream and he had gone eighty-four days now without taking a fish." -Ernest Hemingway
"Was your friend Maera, then, mean about money?He was not. He was generous, humorous, proud, bitter, foul-mouthed, and a great drinker. He neither sucked after intellectuals nor married money. He loved to kill bulls and lived with much passion and enjoyment although the last six months of his life he was very bitter. He knew he had tuberculosis and took absolutely no care of himself; having no fear of death he preferred to burn out, not as an act of bravado, but from choice." -Ernest Hemingway
"Il n'est plus temps de penser à ce qui te manque. Pense à ce que tu peux faire avec ce que tu as." -Ernest Hemingway
"¿Por qué madrugaremos tanto los viejos? ¿Será para alargar el día?" -Ernest Hemingway
"The best way is always to stop when you are going good and when you know what will happen next. If you do that every day when you are writing a novel you will never be stuck." -Ernest Hemingway
"You had to trust the people you worked with completely or not at all," -Ernest Hemingway
"She had the morals of a vacuum cleaner and the soul of a pari-mutuel machine, a good figure, and that lovely vicious face, and she only stayed with Roger long enough to get ready for her first good step upwards in life." -Ernest Hemingway
"I knew how severe I had been and how bad things had been. The one who is doing his work and getting satisfaction from it is not the one the poverty bothers. I thought of bathtubs and showers and toilets that flushed as things that inferior people to us had or that you enjoyed when you made trips, which we often made. There was always the public bathhouse down at the foot of the street by the river. My wife had never complained once about these things any more than she cried about Chèvre d'Or when he fell. She had cried for the horse, I remembered, but not for the money. I had been stupid when she needed a grey lamb jacket and had loved it once she had bought it. I had been stupid about other things too. It was all part of the fight against poverty that you never win except by not spending. Especially if you buy pictures instead of clothes. But then we did not think ever of ourselves as poor. We did not accept it. We thought we were superior people and other people that we looked down on and rightly mistrusted were rich. It had never seemed strange to me to wear sweatshirts for underwear to keep warm. It only seemed odd to the rich. We ate well and cheaply and drank well and cheaply and slept well and warm together and loved each other." -Ernest Hemingway
"Todos precisam ter alguém para conversar - disse a mulher. - Antes, tínhamos a religião e outras coisas sem sentido. Agora, cada um precisa ter com quem falar abertamente. Pois quanto mais bravura alguém tiver, mais solitário vai ficando." -Ernest Hemingway
"In the danger there is certainty in the knowledge of what kind of options to use" -Ernest Hemingway
"-Myślę, że dostajemy takie karty, jak nam rozdają. Nie mógłbyś ich jeszcze raz przetasować, rozdawco? – rozmyślał.-Nie. Karty rozdają tylko raz, a potem je zbierasz i grasz nimi. Potrafię zagrać, jeżeli tylko wyciągnę coś dobrego – powiedział do portretu, na którym to nie wywarło żadnego wrażenia." -Ernest Hemingway
"Then he raised his hand as he faced the bull and commanded him to go down with the death that he had placed inside him.Bitter lines around the mouth are the first sign of defeat." -Ernest Hemingway
"El hombre no está hecho para la derrota. Al hombre se le puede destruir, pero no derrotar." -Ernest Hemingway
"He always thought of the sea as 'la mar' which is what people call her in Spanish when they love her. Sometimes those who love her say bad things of her but they are always said as though she were a woman." -Ernest Hemingway
"Böylece bu iş hallolmuş gibiydi. İşte bu kadardı. Bir kızı bir adamla gönder. Onu kendisiyle gidecek bir başkasıyla tanıştır. Şimdi de gidip kızı geri getir. Telgrafı da sevgiler diye imzala. Bu gayet uygundu." -Ernest Hemingway
"There was nothing to it, gentlemen. All a man need ever do is obey." -Ernest Hemingway
"Con người sinh ra không phải để thất bại. Con người có thể bị hủy diệt chứ không thể bị khuất phục." -Ernest Hemingway
"Our pleasures, which were those of being in love, were as simple and still as mysterious and complicated as a simple mathematical formula that can mean happiness of can mean the end of the world." -Ernest Hemingway
"Who's she?' Georgette turned to me. 'Do I have to talk to her?" -Ernest Hemingway
"Red swine. Mother rapers. Eaters of the milk of thy fathers." -Ernest Hemingway
"That seemed to handle it. That was it. Send a girl off with one man. Introduce her to another to go off with him. Now go and bring her back. And sign the wire with love. That was it all right. I went in to lunch." -Ernest Hemingway
"Wenn der Frühling kam, selbst der trügerische Frühling, gab es keine Probleme außer dem, wo man am glücklichsten sein würde. Das einzige, was einen Tag verderben konnte, waren Menschen, und wenn man vermeiden konnte, Verabredungen zu treffen, so war jeder Tag ohne Grenzen. Menschen waren immer die Begrenzer des Glücks, bis auf die sehr wenigen, die so gut waren wie der Frühling selbst." -Ernest Hemingway
"- Трус умирает тысячу раз, а храбрый только один?- Кто это сказал?- Не знаю." -Ernest Hemingway
"Also I wanted the whisky for itself, because I loved the taste of it and because, being as happy as I could be, it made me feel even better." -Ernest Hemingway
"Religion is the opium of the poor.""""I thought marijuana was the opium of the poor." -Ernest Hemingway
"And the window shutting. Marie, his femme de ménage, protesting against the eight-hour day saying, 'If a husband works until six he gets only a little drunk on the way home and does not waste too much. If he works only until five he is drunk every night and has no money. It is the wife of the working man who suffers from this shortening of hours." -Ernest Hemingway
"...որովհետև դուք մտքի մարդ չեք:" -Ernest Hemingway
"No me importaba el sentido de la vida. Lo único que quería era saber cómo vivir. Tal vez si uno descubría cómo vivir podría deducir de ahí el sentido de la vida" -Ernest Hemingway
"It never makes any difference what the English say." -Ernest Hemingway
"Being against evil doesn't make you good. Tonight I was against it and then I was evil myself. I just want to destroy them. But when you start taking pleasure in it you are awfully close to the thing you're fighting." -Ernest Hemingway
"No matter how a man alone ain't got no bloody fucking chance." -Ernest Hemingway
"The fish is my friend too, he said aloud. I have never seen or heard of such a fish. But I must kill him. I am glad we do not have to try and kill the stars.Imagine if each day a man must try to kill the moon, he thought. The moon runs away. But imagine if a man each day should have to try to kill the sun? We were born lucky, he thought.There is no one worthy of eating him from the manner of his behavior and his great dignity.But it is good that we do not have to try to kill the sun or the moon or the stars. It is enough to live on the sea and kill our true brothers." -Ernest Hemingway
"El vino es la cosa más civilizada del mundo" -Ernest Hemingway
"But I will. I'll say just what you wish and I'll do what you wish and then you will never want any other girls, will you? She looked at me very happily. 'I'll do what you want and say what you want and then I'll be a great success, won't I?'Yes.''What would you like me to do now that you're all ready?''Come to the bed again.''All right. I'll come.''Oh, darling, darling, darling,' I said.'You see,' she said. 'I do anything you want.''You're so lovely.''I'm afraid I'm not very good at it yet.''You're lovely.''I want what you want. There isn't any me any more. Just what you want.''You sweet.'I'm good. Aren't I good? You don't want any other girls, do you?''No.''You see? I'm good. I do what you want." -Ernest Hemingway
"É uma estupidez não ter esperança', pensou. 'Além disso acho que é um pecado perder a esperança. Mas não devo pensar em pecados. Já tenho problemas demais para começar a pensar em pecados. Para dizer a verdade, também não compreendo bem o que são os pecados." -Ernest Hemingway
"الله يعلم أنّي لم أكن أريج لقلبي الوقوع في حبها ، لم أكن أريد الوقوع في حب أحد مطلقًا ، و لكن الله يعلم أيضًا أني قد وقعت ، و أني أضجع الآن على السرير ، في غرفة المستشفى ، في ميلان ، و كل الأفكار تضطرب في رأسي ." -Ernest Hemingway
"Up up up and into nowhere" -Ernest Hemingway
"and he knew no man was ever alone on the sea. He" -Ernest Hemingway
"excesses of impartiality, righteousness and Pontius Pilatry, and the always-dirty desire to see how people act under an emotional conflict, that makes writers such attractive friends." -Ernest Hemingway
"Yes. There is no difference." -Ernest Hemingway
"Ճիշտ չէ, որ ճշմարիտը միայն մեկն է: Ճշմարիտ են բոլորը:" -Ernest Hemingway
"Ahora no es el momento de pensar en lo que no tienes. Piensa lo que puedes hacer con lo que hay." -Ernest Hemingway
"But Jesus Christ, what do you do at nights is what I want to know. How do you get through nights if you can't sleep? I guess you find out like you find out how it feels to lose your husband. I guess you find out all right. I guess you find out everything in this goddamned life." -Ernest Hemingway
"Գիտե՞ս, մինչև քեզ հանդիպելս, ես երբեք ոչ մի բան չեմ խնդրել: Ոչ էլ ինչ որ բանի եմ ձգտել: Շատ գործեր եմ արել, և հիմա ահա հանդիպել եմ քեզ ու սիրել,- ասաց նա լիովին գիտակցելով, որ այս ամենը պատրանք է:Ես սօրում եմ քեզ այնպես, ինչպես Մադրիդը, որ մենք պաշտպանեցինք և ինչպես բոլոր այն ընկերներին, որոնք զոհվեցին: Շատ զոհվեցին: Շատ, շատ, շատ: Չես կարող պատկերացնել, թե ինչքան շատ զոհվեցին: Ես սիրում եմ քեզ այնպես, ինչպես այն, ինչ ամենից ավել եմ սիրում աշխարհում, նույնիսկ ավելի: Ես քեզ շատ եմ սիրում, նապաստակ: Շատ ավելի քան կարող եմ ասել խոսքերով: Բայց ասում եմ, որպեսզի գոնե մի քիչ ասած լինեմ քեզ: Ես երբեք կին չեմ ունեցել, իսկ հիմա դու իմ կինն ես, և ես երջանիկ եմ:" -Ernest Hemingway
"Fish,' he said, 'I love you and respect you very much. But I will kill you dead before this day ends.' Let" -Ernest Hemingway
"They say the seeds of what we will do are all in us, but it always seemed to me that in those who make jokes in life the seeds are covered with better soil and with a higher grade of manure." -Ernest Hemingway
"What is an hour?''More to me than to him.''An hour is the same." -Ernest Hemingway
"While he talked you had the impression that he was not looking at you or that he mistook you for some one else." -Ernest Hemingway
"Write the truest sentence you know." -Ernest Hemingway
"We stood in the sunlight." -Ernest Hemingway
"Интеллигентный человек иногда напивается для того, чтобы провести время со своей глупостью." -Ernest Hemingway
"Tengo miedo de morir." -Ernest Hemingway
"Why did they make birds so delicate and fine as those sea swallows when the ocean can be so cruel? She is kind and very beautiful. But she can be so cruel and it comes so suddenly and such birds that fly, dipping and hunting, with their small sad voices are made too delicately for the sea." -Ernest Hemingway
"I turned on the light again and read. I read the Turgenieff. I knew that now, reading it in the oversensitized state of my mind after much too much brandy, I would remember it somewhere, and afterward it would seem as though it had really happened to me. I would always have it." -Ernest Hemingway
"She said that nothing is done to oneself that one does not accept and that if I love someone it would take it all away."" ""What" -Ernest Hemingway
"And what happened?''Much,' the woman said. 'Much. And all of it ugly. Even that which was glorious." -Ernest Hemingway
"Тот, кто выигрывает войну, никогда не перестает воевать." -Ernest Hemingway
"Braddocks, ""Dansa geliyorsun değil mi?"" diye soydu.""Ne dansı?""Bayan Braddocks, ""Dans etmeler işte"" diye araya girdi. ""Onları geri getirdik, bilmiyor musun?" -Ernest Hemingway
"A country, finally, erodes and the dust blows away, the people all die and none of them were of any importance permanently, except those who practised the arts, and these now wish to cease their work because it is too lonely, too hard to do, and is not fashionable." -Ernest Hemingway
"In the first place, you had to be in love with a woman to have a basis of friendship." -Ernest Hemingway
"But there are remises or storage places where you may leave or store certain things such as a locker trunk or duffel bag containing personal effects or the unpublished poems of Evan Shipman or marked maps or even weapons there was no time to turn over to the proper authorities and this book contains material from the remises of my memory and of my heart. Even if the one has been tampered with and the other does not exist." -Ernest Hemingway
"To kill them teaches nothing,' Anselmo said. 'You cannot exterminate them because from their seed comes more with greater hatred. Prison is nothing. Prison only makes hatred." -Ernest Hemingway
"We are all broken thats how the light gets in" -Ernest Hemingway
"يجب ألا يبقى المرء وحيدا إذا تقدمت سنه ، و لكن هذا لا يمكن تلافيه" -Ernest Hemingway
"Before he came back three doctors came into the room. I have noticed that doctors who fail in the practice of medicine have a tendency to seek one another's company and aid in consultation. A doctor who cannot take out your appendix properly will recommend to you a doctor who will be unable to remove your tonsils with success. These were three such doctors" -Ernest Hemingway
"Then, while the old man was clearing the lines and preparing the harpoon, the male fish jumped high into the air beside the boat to see where the female was and then went down deep, his lavender wings, that were his pectoral fins, spread wide and all his wide lavender stripes showing. He was beautiful, the old man remembered, and he had stayed." -Ernest Hemingway
"No es cobardía saber lo que es insensato. —Ni es insensato saber lo que es cobardía —dijo Anselmo, incapaz de resistir la tentación de hacer una frase." -Ernest Hemingway
"Мабуть, йому було приємно милуватися її вродою, знаючи, що він був із нею близький, і про це вже всім відомо. Цього вже ніхто не міг у нього відібрати." -Ernest Hemingway
"lions." -Ernest Hemingway
"Gündüz vakti hiçbir şeyi kafaya takmamak çok kolaydır ama gece vakti işler değişir." -Ernest Hemingway
"You know it makes one feel rather good deciding not to be bitch." -Ernest Hemingway
"You learned the dry-mouthed, fear-purged, purging ecstasy of battle and you fought that summer and that fall for all the poor in the world, against all tyranny, for all the things you believed and for the new world you had been educated into." -Ernest Hemingway
"...no me gusta esa resignación. Es un sentimiento malo que se adueña de los hombres cuando están a punto de alejarse o de traicionar; es el sentimiento que precede a la liquidación." -Ernest Hemingway
"When you first start writing stories in the first person, if the stories are made so real that people believe them, the people reading them nearly always think the stories really happened to you. That is natural because while you were making them up you had to make them happen to the person who has telling them. If you do this successfully enough, you make the person who is reading them believe that the things happened to him too. If you can do this you are beginning to get what you are trying for, which is to make something that will become a part of the reader's experience and a part of his memory. There must be things that he did not notice when he read the story or the novel which, without his knowing it, enter into his memory and experience so that they are a part of his life. This is not easy to do." -Ernest Hemingway
"contemplando el cielo y las cimas lejanas, tomó un trago de la bota y comprobó que no sentía ningún deseo de morir. «Si es preciso morir, y claro que va a ser preciso, puedo morir. Pero no me gusta nada.»Morir no tenía importancia ni se hacía de la muerte ninguna ideaaterradora. Pero vivir era un campo de trigo balanceándose a impulsos del viento en el flanco de una colina. Vivir era un halcón en el cielo. Vivir era un botijo entre el polvo del grano segado y la paja que vuela." -Ernest Hemingway
"Goodnight my kitten." -Ernest Hemingway
"He, Robert Wilson, carried a double size cot on safari to accommodate any windfalls he might receive. He had hunted for a certain clientele, the international, fast, sporting set, where the women did not feel they were getting their money's worth unless they had shared that cot with the white hunter." -Ernest Hemingway
"You ought to write a book on wines, count,"" I said. ""Mr. Barnes,"" answered the count, ""All I want out of wine is to enjoy them." -Ernest Hemingway
"Those who have entered it honorably, and no men ever entered earth more honorably than those who died in Spain, already have achieved immortality." -Ernest Hemingway
"Now, heavy socks removed, stepping tentatively, trying the pressure of the leather against the toes, the argument past, she wanting not to suffer, but to keep up and please Mr. J. P., me ashamed at having been a four-letter man about boots, at being righteous against pain, at being righteous at all, at ever being righteous, stopping to whisper about it, both of us grinning at what was whispered, it all right now, the boots too, without the heavy socks, much better, me hating all righteous bastards now, one absent American friend especially, having just removed myself from that category, certainly never to be righteous again, watching Droopy ahead, we went down the long slant of the trail toward the bottom of the canyon where the trees were heavy and tall and the floor of the canyon, that from above had been a narrow gash, opened to a forest-banked stream." -Ernest Hemingway
"Ինչպես, որ հողը երբեք չի մեռնի, այնպես էլ նրանք, ովքեր երբևէ ազատ են եղել, ստրուկ չեն դառնա:" -Ernest Hemingway
"In Ernest hemingway novel ""The sun also rises"". there is a riddle.THE CORP OF A LEOPARD was found on a moutain sixteen thousand feet above sea level-What was it doing there? fiction" -Ernest Hemingway
"Every man needs to speak to someone. Before we had faith and other foolishness. Now everyone needs to have someone with whom it can talk to plainly, because a man, in addition to his boldness he can have, feels very lonely." -Ernest Hemingway
"hardening steel, yet anyone could go out and dig up as much of it in the hills of the New Territories as he or she could carry on a flat basket balanced on the head to the big shed where it was bought clandestinely. I found this out when I was hunting wood pigeons and I brought it to the attention of people purchasing wolfram in the interior. No one was very interested and I kept bringing it to the attention of people of higher rank until one day a very high officer who was not at all interested that wolfram was there free to be dug up in the New Territories said to me, ‘But after all, old boy, the Nam Yung set-up is functioning you know.' But when we shot in the evenings outside the women's prison and would see an old Douglas twin-motor plane come in over the hills and slide down toward the airfield, and you knew it was loaded with sacked wolfram and had just flown over the Jap lines, it was strange to know that many of the women in the women's prison were there for having been caught digging wolfram illicitly." -Ernest Hemingway
"The dignity of movement of an iceberg is due to only one-eighth of it being above water'." -Ernest Hemingway
"...porque yo guardaba la boca callada cuando algo no me gustaba. Si a una persona le gustaban las pinturas o los escritos de sus amigos, yo lo miraba como algo parecido a lo de la gente que quiere a su familia, y es descortés criticársela. A veces, uno puede pasar mucho tiempo antes de tomar una actitud crítica ante su propia familia, la de sangre o la política." -Ernest Hemingway
"Quisiera ser el pez - pensó - con todo lo que tiene frente a mi voluntad y mi inteligencia solamente." -Ernest Hemingway
"أن الحظ قد تخلى عنى، ولكن من يعلم؟ لعله يحالفني اليوم، فكل يوم هو يوم جديد. من الأفضل أن يكون الإنسان محظوظا، ولكنني أوثر إذا عملت عملا أن أتقنه، حينئذ إذا جاء الحظ يكون المرء متأهبا لاستقباله." -Ernest Hemingway
"All good books are alike in that they are truer than if they had really happened." -Ernest Hemingway
"Треба бути ідіотом, щоб залишати Париж." -Ernest Hemingway
"Nadie vive jamás la vida en toda su intensidad, excepto los toreros" -Ernest Hemingway
"It's your object to convey everything to the reader so that he remembers it not as a story he had read but something that happened to himself. That's the true test of writing.." -Ernest Hemingway
"Then several women had put themselves out to be nice to him, and his horizons had all shifted." -Ernest Hemingway
"When writing a novel a writer should create living people; people not characters. A character is a caricature" -Ernest Hemingway
"مرد برای شکست خلق نشده، ممکن است نابود شود اما هیچ وقت شکست نمیخورد. یک مرد خیچ وقت عاجز هم نمی شود" -Ernest Hemingway
"The man isn't born for defeats.He can fall from grace,but he cannot be defeated." -Ernest Hemingway
"His talent was as natural as the pattern that was made by the dust on a butterfly's wings. At one time he understood it no more than the butterfly did and he did not know when it was brushed or marred. Later he became conscious of his damaged wings and of their construction and he learned to think and could not fly any more because the love of flight was gone and he could only remember when it had been effortless." -Ernest Hemingway
"sentía la soledad de muerte que llega al cabo de cada día de la vida que uno ha desperdiciado." -Ernest Hemingway
"Good,' said Johnny, smiling happily. 'Now we are all good friends again. In a war we must all be careful not to hurt each other's feelings." -Ernest Hemingway
"Szczęście jest czymś, co przychodzi pod wieloma postaciami, więc któż je może rozpoznać?" -Ernest Hemingway
"No,' Pablo said, dipping up another cup. 'I am drunk, seest thou? When I am not drunk I do not talk. You have never heard me talk much. But an intelligent man is sometimes forced to be drunk to spend his time with fools." -Ernest Hemingway
"Ahora no es momento de pensar en lo que no tienes. Piensa en lo que puedes hacer con lo que hay" -Ernest Hemingway
"...they're too big. If that doesn't offer a pleasure, then why do fishing?" -Ernest Hemingway
"Але людина створена не для поразки. Людину можна знищити, а здолати не можна." -Ernest Hemingway
"- You, Inglés, who know nothing about women. Do you know how an ugly woman feels? Do you know what it is to be ugly all your life and inside to feel that you are beautiful? It is very rare....- Thou art not ugly.'- Qué no? Don't lie to me. Or,' she laughed the deep laugh. 'Has it begun to work with thee? No. That is a joke. No. Look at the ugliness. Yet one has a feeling within one that blinds a man while he loves you. You, with that feeling, blind him, and blind yourself. Then one day, for no reason, he sees you ugly as you really are and he is not blind any more and then you see yourself as ugly as he sees you and you lose your man and your feeling. Do you understand, guapa?" -Ernest Hemingway
"went to the cafés at the corner of the Boulevard Montparnasse and the Boulevard Raspail to be seen publicly and in a way such places anticipated the columnists as the daily substitutes for immortality." -Ernest Hemingway
"Rome is the mother of nations" -Ernest Hemingway
"The gravel paths were moist and the grass was wet with dew. The battery fired twice and the air came each time like a blow and shook the window and made the front of my pajamas flap. I could see the guns but they were evidently firing directly over us. It was a nuisance to have them there but it was a comfort that they were no bigger." -Ernest Hemingway
"The Spanish say, 'El sol es el mejor torero.'The longest books on Spain are usually written by Germans who make one intensive visit and then never return.I know no modern sculpture, except Brancusi's, that is in any way the equal of the sculpture of modern bullfighting.'mas cornadas dan las mujeres.'Manzanilla also means camomile, but if you remember to ask for a chato of manzanilla there is no danger that you will be served camomile tea." -Ernest Hemingway
"window of his home on the Missouri River, and Patrick commented that his father's writing could be compared with nature—a starkly beautiful and complex world that is richly patterned. At that moment two young whitetail bucks ambled up to a willow tree not more than fifteen feet away—a bucolic scene. Patrick moved closer to the window and suggested we watch to see what the two bucks did next. He explained that the annual whitetail rut was just beginning—a time when young males like the two before us typically sparred, instinctual behavior that was a kind of training for when they would compete for a mate. No sooner had he finished his explanation when the two deer squared off and began locking their antlers in playful combat." -Ernest Hemingway
"Ու մի մտածիր Մարիայի մասին, դրանից օգուտ չկա: Ջանա հավատալ այն ամենին, ինչ ասացիր նրան:" -Ernest Hemingway
"Sus ojos podían continuar mirando y mirando cuando todos los demás ojos hubiesen dejado de mirar." -Ernest Hemingway
"It is easy when you are beaten, he thought. I never knew how easy it was. And what beat you, he thought. 'Nothing,' he said aloud. 'I went out too far." -Ernest Hemingway
"We are all broken – that's how the light gets in." -Ernest Hemingway
"Քանի մեզանից մեկնումեկը կա, երկուսս էլ կանք, հասկանու՞մ ես:" -Ernest Hemingway
"So if your life trades its seventy years for seventy hours I have that value now and I am lucky enough to know it. And if there is not any such thing as a long time, nor the rest of your lives, nor from now on, but there is only now, why then now is the" -Ernest Hemingway
"Fish,' he said, 'I love you and respect you very much. But I will kill you dead before this day ends." -Ernest Hemingway
"Quizá no esté tan fuerte como creo —dijo el viejo—. Pero conozco muchos trucos, y tengo voluntad." -Ernest Hemingway
"Everything about him was old except his eyes which were the same color as of the sea and were cheerful and undefeated." -Ernest Hemingway
"She had a gently modelled face and her eyes and her smile lighted up at decisions as though they were rich presents." -Ernest Hemingway
"You read of bulls in the old days accepting thirty, forty, fifty and even seventy pics from the picadors while today a bull that can take seven pics is an amazing animal, and it seems as though things were very different in those days and the bullfighters must have been such men as were the football players on the high school team when we were still in grammar school. Things change very much and instead of great athletes only children play on the high school teams now and if you sit with the older men at the cafe you know there are no good bullfighters now either; they are all children without honor, skill or virtue, much the same as those children who now play football, a feable game it has become" -Ernest Hemingway
"It is not basically a question of the size in repose,"" I said. ""It is the size that it becomes. It is also a question of angle." -Ernest Hemingway
"No. Hieronymus Bosch. Very old-timer. Very good. Pieter Brueghel worked on that too." -Ernest Hemingway
"I had learned already never to empty the well of my writing, but always stop when there was still something there in the deep part of the well, and let it refill at night from the springs that fed it." -Ernest Hemingway
"You cannot know about it unless you have it." -Ernest Hemingway
"Parisul este într-atâta de frumos, încât îți potolește acel ceva din tine care în America este mereu nesătul." -Ernest Hemingway
"I was always embarrassed by the words sacred, glorious, and sacrifice and the expression in vain. We had heard them, sometimes standing in the rain almost out of earshot, so that only the shouted words came through, and had read them, on proclamations that were slapped up by billposters over other proclamations, now for a long time, and I had seen nothing sacred, and the things that were glorious had no glory and the sacrifices were like the stockyards at Chicago if nothing was done with the meat except to bury it. There were many words that you could not stand to hear and finally only the names of places had dignity. Certain numbers were the same way and certain dates and these with the names of the places were all you could say and have them mean anything. Abstract words such as glory, honor, courage, or hallow were obscene beside the concrete names of villages, the numbers of roads, the names of rivers, the numbers of regiments and the dates." -Ernest Hemingway
"Perhaps wars weren't won any more. Maybe they went on forever. Maybe it was another Hundred Years' War." -Ernest Hemingway
"He worried about everyone and in the time when I first knew him he was most worried about T. S. Eliot who, Ezra told me, had to work in a bank in London and so had insufficient time and bad hours to function as a poet." -Ernest Hemingway
"Nothing is ever lost no matter how it seems at the time and what is left out will always show and make the strength of what is left in." -Ernest Hemingway
"It is not bad,' he said. 'And pain does not matter to a man.' He" -Ernest Hemingway
"Dele poca importancia al vestir y no le dé ninguna importancia a la moda, cómprese vestidos cómodos y que duren, y con lo ahorrado en vestir podrá comprar cuadros" -Ernest Hemingway
"Part of you died each year when the leaves fell from the trees and their branches were bare against the wind and the cold, wintry light. But you knew there would always be the spring, as you knew the river would flow again after it was frozen." -Ernest Hemingway
"It must be dangerous to be a man. It is indeed, madame, and but few survive it, 'Tis a hard trade and the grave is at the end of it." -Ernest Hemingway
"—Pobre todo el mundo —dijo Hadley—. Ricos los gatos que no tienen dinero." -Ernest Hemingway
"Muck everybody but the people and then be damned careful what they turn into when they have power." -Ernest Hemingway
"scabrous." -Ernest Hemingway
"He was the archivist, and all the archives of the town were in his office. That has nothing to do with the story. Anyway" -Ernest Hemingway
"¿Cómo te arruinaste? —preguntó Bill. —De dos formas: primero poco a poco, y luego de repente." -Ernest Hemingway
"In him, too, was despair from the sorrow that soldiers turn to hatred in order that they may continue to be soldiers" -Ernest Hemingway
"" -Ernest Hemingway
"It was good to be in bed, sheets, stretching out full length, dipping his head in the pillow. Good in bed, comfortable, happy, fishing tomorrow, he prayed as he always prayed when he remembered it, for the family, himself, to be a great writer, Kate, the men, Odgar, for good fishing, poor old Odgar, poor old Odgar, sleeping up there at the cottage, maybe not sleeping, maybe not sleeping all night. Still there wasn't anything you could do, not a thing." -Ernest Hemingway
"Well,' David said with his eyes tight shut. 'In the worst parts, when I was the tiredest I couldn't tell which was him and which was me.' 'I understand,' Roger said. 'Then I began to love him more than anything on earth.' 'You mean really love him?' Andrew asked. 'Yeah. Really love him.' 'Gee,' said Andrew. 'I can't understand that.' 'I loved him so much when I saw him coming up that I couldn't stand it,' David said, his eyes still shut. 'All I wanted was to see him closer.' 'I know,' Roger said. 'Now I don't give a shit I lost him,' David said. 'I don't care about records. I just thought I did. I'm glad that he's all right and that I'm all right. We aren't enemies.' 'I'm glad you told us,' Thomas Hudson said. 'Thank you very much, Mr. Davis, for what you said when I first lost him,' David said with his eyes still shut. Thomas Hudson never knew what it was that Roger had said to him." -Ernest Hemingway
"Škoda, že to všechno nebyl opravdu jenom sen a tu rybu jsem ulovil. Je mi to líto, rybo. Takhle to skončit nemělo." -Ernest Hemingway
"Kill him, yes. Swear him, yes. But don't wound him." -Ernest Hemingway
"One gains, the other loses, and only the weaklings are bothered with that." -Ernest Hemingway
"going to defend him,' Harry said. 'Don't you come around here asking where he is. You probably got him in your pocket.' 'Balls to you,' said the lawyer. 'I've got a job for him.' 'Well, go look for him some place else,' Harry said. 'He ain't here.' 'I've got a job for him, I tell you,' the lawyer said. 'You ain't got a job for anybody. All you are is poison.' Just then the old man with the long gray hair over the back of his collar who sells the rubber goods specialties comes in for a quarter of a pint and Freddy pours it out for him and he corks it up and scuttles back across the street with it. 'What happened to your arm?' the lawyer asked Harry. Harry has the sleeve pinned up to the shoulder. 'I didn't like the look of it so I cut it off,' Harry told him. 'You and who else cut it off?' 'Me and a doctor cut it off,' Harry said." -Ernest Hemingway
"Nul homme n'est une île en soi. Nous faisons tous partie d'un continent et chaque fois que tu entends sonner le glas, ne demande pas pour qui il sonne, il sonne pour toi.""--Ernest Hemingway, 'Pour qui sonne le glas'?" -Ernest Hemingway
"I'm thirty-four, you know. I'm not going to be one of these bitches that ruins children." -Ernest Hemingway
"Hay que saber apreciar el valor de las cosas y establecer una prioridad de valores." -Ernest Hemingway
"Ահա, թե խիչնպե՛ս են մեռնում՝ անլսելի շշուկով։" -Ernest Hemingway
"with bad painters all you need to do is not look at them. but even when you have learned not to look at families nor listen to them and have learned not to answer letters, families have many ways of being dangerous." -Ernest Hemingway
"So far, about morals, I know only that what is moral is what you feel good after and what is immoral is what you feel bad after and judged by these moral standards, which I do not defend, the bullfight is very moral to me because I feel very fine while it is going on and have a feeling of life and death and mortality and immortality, and after it is over I feel very sad but very fine." -Ernest Hemingway
"The war seemed as far away as the football games of someone else's college." -Ernest Hemingway
"seems completely unwarranted." -Ernest Hemingway
"Це вино занадто добре для тостів, люба. Не слід домішувати почуття до такого вина. Смак втрачається'." -Ernest Hemingway
"But she has a tongue that scalds and that bites like a bull whip. With this tongue she takes the hide from any one. She is of an unbelievable barbarousness." -Ernest Hemingway
"He got the first idea out of a book, and I suppose the second came out of a book too." -Ernest Hemingway
"Thomas Hudson had the feeling that this had happened before in a bad dream. They had run many difficult channels. But this was another thing that had happened sometime in his life. Perhaps it had happened all his life. But now it was happening with such an intensification that he felt both in command and at the same time the prisoner of it." -Ernest Hemingway
"Oh, Jake,' Brett said, 'we could have had such a damned good time together.'.'Yes,' I said. 'Isn't it pretty to think so?" -Ernest Hemingway
"Then we ate even smaller eels alone cooked in oil and as tiny as bean sprouts and curled in all directions and so tender they disappeared in the mouth without chewing." -Ernest Hemingway
"Il embrassa la mer d'un regard et se rendit compte de l'infinie solitude où il se trouvait" -Ernest Hemingway
"Ի՞նչ ես կարծում, ու՞մ համար է մեռնելն ավելի հեշտ: Հավատացյալի՞, թե՞ նրա, ով երևույթին նայում է այնպես. ինչպես, որ կա: Հավատքը նրանց շատ է օգնում: Բայց փոխարենը մենք էլ գիտենք այն, որ վախենալու բան չկա: Վատն այն է, որ կյանքդ ես կորցնում: Վատ է,երբ մեռնելը երկար է տևում և ուժեղ ցավեր ես ունենում, դա նվաստացնում է մարդուն: Քո բախտը բերեց, տեսնու՞մ ես, դու ոչ մի նման բան չունես:" -Ernest Hemingway
"Allir eru jafnstórir þegar þeir eru komnir uppí." -Ernest Hemingway
"- Njega sam ubio u samoobrani - opet će starac naglas. - I pošteno sam ga ubio. Osim toga, pomisli, svi se među sobom ubijaju, na ovaj ili onaj način. Ribarenje me ubija koliko me i održava na životu." -Ernest Hemingway
"Now - it has a funny sound to be a whole world and your life." -Ernest Hemingway
"that's hilaire belloc,' i said to my friend. 'ford was here this afternoon and cut him dead.' 'don't be a silly ass,' my friend said. 'that's aleister crowley, the diabolist. he's supposed to be the wickedest man in the world.' 'sorry,' i said." -Ernest Hemingway
"Hún hafði þessi indælu háu kinnbein sem merkja hroka." -Ernest Hemingway
"Isn't it pretty to think so" -Ernest Hemingway
"If the other fishermen heard me talk aloud, they would probably think I'm mad. But since I'm not, I really do not care," -Ernest Hemingway
"If you are lucky enough to have lived in Paris as a young man, then wherever you go the rest of your life, it stays with you, for Paris is a moveable feast." -Ernest Hemingway
"I feel better about him now,' young Tom said. 'You know at school somebody said David was my half brother, not my real brother, and I told him we didn't have half brothers in our family. I wish I didn't worry so much though, papa." -Ernest Hemingway
"Te he visto, monada, y ya eres mía, por más que esperes a quien quieras y aunque nunca vuelva a verte, pensé. Eres mía y todo París es mío y yo soy de este cuaderno y de este lápiz." -Ernest Hemingway
"Desconfío de todas las personas francas y sencillas, especialmente cuando sus historias parecen tener lógica" -Ernest Hemingway
"like many people living in Europe, he would rather have been in America," -Ernest Hemingway
"Nu fusesem prin locuri unde șosesele sunt înghețate și tari ca fierul, unde aerul e curat, rece și uscat, unde zăpada e uscată și prăfoasă și se văd urme de iepuri prin zăpadă și unde „țăranii își scot pălăria și-ți spun „stăpâne' și unde e vânat din belșug. Nu fusesem prin locuri de acestea, ci prin cafenele pline de fum, în nopți în care totul se învârte cu tine și te uiți la pereți ca să-i faci să stea locului, nopți când zaci în pat beat și crezi că asta-i totul, când încerci cudata senzație de a te trezi și de a nu ști cine e alături de tine și lumea e atât de ireală și atât de atrăgătoare pe întuneric încât trebuie să o iei de la început noaptea, fără să-ți dai seama și fără să-ți pese de nimic, sigur că asta-i totul și totul și totul și nu-ți mai pasă de nimic altceva. Dar deodată îți pasă chiar foarte mult și adormi ca să te trezești cândva dimineața cu acest sentiment și tot ce-a fost s-a dus și totul e tăios și dur și limpede și uneori ai discuții în privința prețului. Alteori însă e plăcut, intim și cald și micul dejun și prânzul. Alteori toată plăcerea a pierit și ești bucuros să ieși afară pe stradă dar întotdeauna te așteaptă o altă zi și cum noaptea e mult mai bine, în afară de cazul în care ziua e foarte limpede și rece, dar nu reușeam să-i explic, tot așa cum nu izbutesc nici acum. Dacă ți s-au întâmplat toate astea știi cum e." -Ernest Hemingway
"Any man's life, told truly, is a novel" -Ernest Hemingway
"Pariisi on kuin juhla, joka kulkee mukanasi koko elämäsi, jos sinulla on ollut onni asua siellä nuorena." -Ernest Hemingway
"As he had been thinking for months about leaving his wife and had not done it because it would be too cruel to deprive her of himself, her departure was a very healthful shock." -Ernest Hemingway
"I decided that I would write one story about each thing that I knew about." -Ernest Hemingway
"Pensé que todas las generaciones se pierden por algo y siempre se han perdido y siempre se perderán." -Ernest Hemingway
"People may refer the sea as both feminine and masculine but I like to refer it as feminine because the moon effects the sea in the same way it does a women" -Ernest Hemingway
"I loved to take her hair down and she sat on the bed and kept very still, except suddenly she would dip down to kiss me while I was doing it. She had a lovely face and body and lovely smooth skin too. We would be lying together and I would touch her cheeks and her forehead and under her eyes and her chin and throat with the tips of my fingers and say, ‘Smooth as piano keys,' and she would stroke my chin with her finger and say, ‘Smooth as emery paper and very hard on piano keys.' ‘Is it rough?' ‘No, darling. I was just making fun of you." -Ernest Hemingway
"I have never seen a man in civil life as nervous as Robert Cohn--nor as eager. I was enjoying it. It was lousy to enjoy it, but I felt lousy. Cohn had a wonderful quality of bringing out the worst in anybody." -Ernest Hemingway
"- Dobro se odmori, ptičice - reče joj. - A onda poleti dalje i okušaj sreću ko i svaki drugi čovjek, ptica ili riba." -Ernest Hemingway
"He knew he would need his hands." -Ernest Hemingway
"People who interfered with your life always did it for your own good and I figured it out finally that what they wanted was for you to conform completely and never differ from some accepted standard and then dissipate the way traveling salesmen would at a convention in every stupid and boring way there was." -Ernest Hemingway
"They are, he thought, the hardest in the world; the hardest, the cruelest, the most predatory and the most attractive and their men have softened or gone to pieces nervously as they have hardened. Or is it that they pick men they can handle? They can't know that much at the age they marry, he thought. He was grateful that he had gone through his education on American women before now because this was a very attractive one." -Ernest Hemingway
"You, you, he raged at himself. Yes, you. You told yourself the first time you saw him that when he would be friendly would be when the treachery would come." -Ernest Hemingway
"A coward dies a thousand times, but a brave man only once" -Ernest Hemingway
"Por entonces, ya había descubierto que todo, lo bueno y lo malo, deja un vacío cuando se interrumpe. Pero si se trata de algo malo, el vacío acaba llenándose por sí solo. Mientras que el vacío de algo bueno solo puede llenarse descubriendo algo mejor." -Ernest Hemingway
"Le garçon vit que le vieil homme respirait, puis il vit les mains du vieil homme et il se mit à pleurer. Il sortit très doucement pour aller chercher du café et pleura tout le long du chemin." -Ernest Hemingway
"Հանկարծ մի ցանկություն առաջացավ նրա մեջ` սկյուռը կողքին, գրպանում ունենալու ցանկություն: Առհասարակ կողքին որևիցե բան ունենալու ցանկություն, մի բան, որին կարելի է ձեռք տալ, դիպչել: Արմունկները ետ ու առաջ սահեցրեց ասեղնատերևների վրայով, բայց` չէ, դա այն զգացողությունը չէր:" -Ernest Hemingway
"She was looking into my eyes with that way she had of looking that made you wonder whether she really saw out of her own eyes. They would look on and on after everyone else's eyes in the world would have stopped looking." -Ernest Hemingway
"Le mille volte che già lo aveva dimostrato non avevano importanza. Ora lo stava dimostrando di nuovo. Ogni volta era una volta nuova, e non pensava mai al passato, quando lo faceva." -Ernest Hemingway
"But the happiness of the summer began to drain out of him as when the tide changes on the flats and the ebb begins in the channel that opens out to sea. He watched the sea and the line of beach and he noticed that the tide had changed and the shore birds were working busily well down the slope of new wet sand. The breakers were diminishing as they receded. He looked a long way up along the shore and then went into the house." -Ernest Hemingway
"It was easier to live under a regime than to fight it. But" -Ernest Hemingway
"El toro Oficial, de la ganadería de los hermanos Arribas, que fue lidiado en Cádiz el día 5 de octubre de 1884, cogió y corneó a un banderillero, saltó la barrera, corneó tres veces al picador Chato, cogió a un guardia civil, rompió una pierna y tres costillas a un guardia municipal y rompió el brazo a un sereno. Habría sido un animal ejemplar para defenderse de la policía cuando esta aporrea a los manifestantes ante el ayuntamiento. De no haber muerto podría haber producido una estirpe de toros que odiaran a la policía y que hubiera devuelto a la multitud las ventajas que ha perdido hoy en día en las luchas callejeras desde la desaparición de los adoquines. Un adoquín, a corta distancia, es más eficaz que una porra o un sable. La desaparición de los adoquines ha hecho más por evitar el derrocamiento de los gobiernos que las ametralladoras, las bombas lacrimógenas y las pistolas automáticas. Porque, cuando un gobierno no quiere matar a los ciudadanos, sino simplemente golpearlos, desbandarlos y obligarlos a someterse con golpes planos de sable, no hay razón para que tal gobierno sea derribado. Todo gobierno que emplea contra sus ciudadanos las ametralladoras, aunque no sea más que una vez, caerá automáticamente. Se mantienen los regímenes con las porras y los golpes planos de los sables, no con las ametralladoras y las bayonetas, y, mientras hubo adoquines, no fue posible nunca aporrear a un populacho desarmado." -Ernest Hemingway
"Only dead fish swim with the current." -Ernest Hemingway
"They got into a taxi and drove out to Rimmily Hissa along the Bosphorus, and around, and back in the cool night and went to bed and she felt as over-ripe as she looked but smooth, rose-petal, syrupy, smooth-bellied, big-breasted and needed no pillow under her buttocks, and he left her before she was awake looking blousy enough in the first daylight and turned up at the Pera Palace with a black eye, carrying his coat because one sleeve was missing." -Ernest Hemingway
"You can't get away from yourself by moving from one place to another. There's nothing to that." -Ernest Hemingway
"He would have to talk with Pablo about politics. It would certainly be interesting to see what his political development had been. The classical move from left to right, probably; like old Lerroux." -Ernest Hemingway
"Знаете ли, аз разбирах, че сте пиян, едва когато започвахте да говорите на връщане в камионите. - Нарязвах се преди всяка атака – каза Ник.- А аз не мога – каза Паравичини. – Опитах при първото нападение, при най-първото – стана ми лошо и после страшно ожаднях.- Значи не ви е нужно.- Вие сте много по-храбър от мене по време на атака.- Не съм – каза Ник. – Добре се познавам и затова предпочитам да се налея. И не се срамувам.- Никога не съм ви виждал пиян.- Нима? – каза Ник. – Никога? Дори и в онази нощ, когато се връщахме от Местре в Портогранде, а на мен ми се доспа и вместо одеяло сложих отгоре си велосипеда и все го придърпвах под брадата си?- Но това не беше на бойната линия.- Дайте да не говорим какъв съм аз – каза Ник. – Темата ми е така добре позната, че не ми се мисли повече." -Ernest Hemingway
"Listen, Jake,"" he said, ""are you really a Catholic?"" ""Technically."" ""What does that mean?"" ""I don't know." -Ernest Hemingway
"First you borrow. Then you beg." -Ernest Hemingway
"I was his tennis friend." -Ernest Hemingway
"The man who has begun to live more seriously within begins to live more simply without." -Ernest Hemingway
"- Ты ещё не будешь с другой девушкой так, как со мной? Не будешь говорить наших слов?" -Ernest Hemingway
"-Կարելի՞ է քեզնից մի բան խնդրել:-Այո- Խնդրում եմ, խնդրում եմ, խնդրում եմ, խնդրում եմ, լռիր:" -Ernest Hemingway
"Pero el hombre no está hecho para la derrota —dijo—. Un hombre puede ser destruido, pero no derrotado." -Ernest Hemingway
"محبوبِ من، محبوبِ قشنگِ من، محبوبِ عزیز من، تو را دوست دارم! برای همیشه، برای یک عمر، محبت تو چقدر شیرین است"" _زنگ ها برای که به صدا در می آید، ارنست همینگوی" -Ernest Hemingway
"Այսքան ժամանակ, որ միայն պաշտպանվելու մասին եք մտածել, դրա համար էլ հիմա հարձակումը չես էլ պատկերացնում:" -Ernest Hemingway
"„Jak jsi vlastně zbankrotoval?' zeptal se Bill.„Dvojím způsobem,' řekl Mike. „Nejdřív postupně a potom naráz." -Ernest Hemingway
"...and walked back to the hotel in the rain.""-Ernest Hemingway, A Farewell to Arms" -Ernest Hemingway
"I had no feeling for him. He did not seem to have anything to do with me. I felt no feeling of fatherhood." -Ernest Hemingway
"Going to another country doesn't make any difference. I've tried all that. You can't get away from yourself by moving from one place to another. There's nothing to that." -Ernest Hemingway
"They were as old as erosions in a fishless desert. Everything" -Ernest Hemingway
"There was a great deal of material that Hemingway wrote for A Moveable Feast that he decided to leave out, acting 'by the old rule that how good a book is should be judged by the man who writes it by the excellence of the material that he eliminates." -Ernest Hemingway
"There is no reason why because it is dark you should look at things differently from when it is light. The hell there isn't! I" -Ernest Hemingway
"But you were living in a milieu of criminals and perverts.' I did not want to argue that, although I thought that I had lived in a world as it was and there were all kinds of people in it and I tried to understand them, although some of them I could not like and some I still hated." -Ernest Hemingway
"Ryszard Gordon nic nie powiedział. Poczuł pustkę w miejscu, gdzie miał przedtem serce, i wszystko, co mówił lub co ona do niego mówiła, było jakby fragmentem podsłuchanej rozmowy." -Ernest Hemingway
"Fish', he said, 'I love you and respect you very much. But I will kill you before the day ends" -Ernest Hemingway
"virada para cima. A ponta farpeada do arpão projetava-se em ângulo no dorso do peixe e o mar estava colorido com o sangue vermelho do seu coração. Primeiro a água se tornara muito escura naquele mar tão azul com mais de uma milha" -Ernest Hemingway
"If there were God, never would He have permitted what I have seen with my eyes. Let them have God." -Ernest Hemingway
"Pasionaria." -Ernest Hemingway
"Belmonte was no longer well enough. He no longer had his greatest moments in the bull-ring. He was not sure that there were any great moments. Things were not the same and now life only came in flashes." -Ernest Hemingway
"Let them all go to hell, except the people, and then, when they come to power, we must be dam cautious to see what they will become." -Ernest Hemingway
"If one must die, he thought, and clearly one must, I can die. But I hate it." -Ernest Hemingway
"Now as they lay all that before had been shielded was unshielded. Where there had been roughness of fabric all was smooth with a smoothness and firm rounded pressing and a long warm coolness, cool outside and warm within, long and light and closely holding, closely held, lonely, hollow-making with contours, happy-making, young and loving and now all warmly smooth with a hollowing, chest-aching, tight-held loneliness that was such that Robert Jordan felt he could not stand it and he said, 'Hast thou loved others?" -Ernest Hemingway
"If the bulls were allowed to increase their knowledge as the bullfighter does, and if those bulls which are not killed in the allotted fifteen minutes in the ring were not afterwards killed in the corrals but were allowed to be fought again, they would kill all the bullfighters, if the bullfighters fought them according to the rules- Bullfighting is based on the fact that it is the first meeting between the wild animal and a dismounted man. This is the fundamental premise of modern bullfighting—that the bull has never been in the ring before. In the early days of bullfighting bulls were allowed to be fought which had been in the ring before and so many men were killed in the bull ring that on 20th November 1567, Pope Pius the Fifth issued a Papal edict excommunicating all Christian princes who should permit bullfights in their countries and denying Christian burial to any person killed in the bull ring. The Church only agreed to tolerate bullfighting, which continued steadily in Spain in spite of the edict, when it was agreed that the bulls should only appear once in the ring." -Ernest Hemingway
"I am not sure Scott had ever drunk wine from a bottle before and it was exciting to him as though he were slumming or as a girl might be excited by going swimming for the first time without a bathing suit." -Ernest Hemingway
"There's no one thing that's true. It's all true." -Ernest Hemingway
"Savaştan hatırladığım belirli birtakım akşam yemekleri gibiydi. Bol miktarda şarap, göz ardı edilen bir gerginlik ve engellenemeyecek şeylerin olacağı hissi vardı. Şarabın etkisiyle tiksintim geçti ve mutlu oldum. Hepsi de öyle hoş insanlar gibi göründüler ki gözüme." -Ernest Hemingway
"To worry was as bad as to be afraid. It simply made things more difficult." -Ernest Hemingway
"No, that is the great fallacy; the wisdom of old men. They do not grow wise. They grow careful." -Ernest Hemingway
"Aproximávamo-nos agora da floresta enquanto a estrada ia descrevendo uma volta quando demos pelas pegadas de um homem. Depois de outro homem que trazia botas. As marcas mostravam ligeiros sinais de chuva e parámos o carro para ver melhor a pé.- Tu e eu – disse a Ngui.- Sim – disse ele com um sorriso – Um deles tem pés grandes e caminha como se estivesse cansado.- Um está descalço e anda como se a espingarda fosse pesada demais para ele. Pára o carro – disse a Mthuka. Descemos.- Olha – disse Ngui. – Um anda como se fosse muito velho e mal pudesse ver. O que está calçado.- Olha – disse eu – O que está descalço anda como quem tem cinco mulheres e vinte vacas. Gastou uma fortuna em cerveja.- Não vão chegar a lado nenhum – disse Ngui – Olha, o que vai calçado anda como se fosse morrer de um momento para o outro. Vai a cambalear com o peso da espingarda.- Que achas que andam a fazer por estes lados?- Como é que hei-de saber? Olha, o dos sapatos agora está mais forte.- Está a pensar na shamba – disse Ngui.- Kwenda na shamba.- Ndio – confirmou Ngui – Que idade dás tu ao mais velho, o dos sapatos?- Não tens nada com isso – disse eu. Dirigimo-nos para o carro e quando ele se aproximou subimos e eu indiquei a Mthuka a orla da floresta. O condutor ria-se e abanava a cabeça.- Que é que andavam os dois ali a fazer a seguir as vossas pegadas? – disse Miss Mary – Já sei que era muito engraçado porque todos se estavam a rir. Mas pareceu-me bastante parvo" -Ernest Hemingway
"You know it makes one feel rather good deciding not to be a bitch.""""Yes.""""It's sort of what we have instead of God.""""Some people have God"", I said. ""Quite a lot.""""He never worked very well with me." -Ernest Hemingway
"It's gone the way the mist is burned off the hollows in broken ground when the sun comes out,' the Colonel said. 'And you're the sun." -Ernest Hemingway
"When I was a little girl I didn't like the smell of the hops in the carts. Nor in the fields. Je n'aime pas les houblons. No, my God, not a bit. The man that owns the brewery said to me and my sister to go to the brewery and drink the beer, and then we'd like the hops. That's true. Then we liked them all right. He had them give us the beer. We liked them all right then." -Ernest Hemingway
"Let him think I am more man than I am and I will be so. I wish I was the fish, he thought, with everything he has against only my will and my intelligence." -Ernest Hemingway
"I was a little drunk. Not drunk in any positive sense, but just enough to be careless. ""For God's sake,"" I said, ""yes, don't you?""""Oh, how charmingly you get angry,"" he said. ""I wish I had that faculty." -Ernest Hemingway
"Wilson looked at them both. If a four-letter man marries a five-letter woman, he was thinking, what number of letters would their children be?" -Ernest Hemingway
"life is earnest, art is gay " -Ernest Hemingway
"We're no kin,"" Thomas Hudson said. ""We just used to live in the same town and make some of the same mistakes." -Ernest Hemingway
"The very rich are different from you and me.' And how some one had said to Julian, Yes, they have more money. But that was not humorous to Julian. He thought they were a special glamourous race and when he found they weren't it wrecked him just as much as any other thing that wrecked him." -Ernest Hemingway
"հասկացավ, որ մի այլ անձի հետ, ինքը կարող է դառնալ ամեն ինչ:" -Ernest Hemingway
"No me gustan los perros por ser perros, los caballos por ser caballos ni los gatos por ser gatos." -Ernest Hemingway
"Sreća je nešto što dolazi u raznim oblicima i tko je uopće može prepoznati? Ja bih je ipak uzeo u svakom obliku i platio koliko traže." -Ernest Hemingway
"L'amore è l'amore e il divertimento è divertimento. Ma c'è sempre un tale silenzio quando muore un pesciolino rosso." -Ernest Hemingway
"But we were never lone and never afraid when we were together. I know that the night is not the same as the day: that all things are different, that the things of the night cannot be explained in the day, because they do not then exist, and the night can be a dreadful time for lonely people once their loneliness has started. But with Catherine there was almost no difference in the night except it was an even better time. If people bring so much courage to this world the world has to kill them to break them, so of course it kills them. The world breaks every one and afterward many are strong at the broken places. But those that will not break it kills. It kills the very good and the very gentle and the very brave impartially. If you are none of these you can be sure it will kill you too but there will be no special hurry." -Ernest Hemingway
"Imagine Sordo getting a bottle for the visiting dynamiter and then remembering to bring it down and leave it. It wasn't just manners that they had. Manners would have been producing the bottle and having a formal drink. That was what the French would have done and then they would have saved what was left for another occasion. No, the true thoughtfulness of thinking the visitor would like it and then bringing it down for him to enjoy when you yourself were engaged in something where there was every reason to think of no one else but yourself and of nothing but the matter in hand–that was Spanish. One kind of Spanish, he thought. Remembering to bring the whiskey was one of the reasons you loved these people. Don't go romanticizing them, he thought. There are as many sorts of Spanish as there are Americans. But still, bringing the whiskey was very handsome." -Ernest Hemingway
"But the world they were in was not the world he was in." -Ernest Hemingway
"Para o fim do Verão daquele ano vivíamos numa aldeia que, para lá do rio e da planície confrontava as montanhas. No leito do rio havia seixos e pedregulhos, secos e brancos ao sol, e a água clara corria suavemente pelos canais. Passavam tropas em frente da casa e desciam a estrada e a poeirada que levantavam cobria as folhas das árvores. Os troncos das árvores estavam também cobertos de pó e as folhas caíram cedo naquele ano, e víamos as tropas marchando pela estrada fora e o pó que se levantava e as folhas, levantadas pela brisa, caíam sobre os soldados em marcha e depois a estrada deserta e branca sem nada além das folhas.Ernest Hemingway, Adeus às Armas-----------------------------" -Ernest Hemingway
"The very beginning was written and all he had to do was go on. That's all, he said. You see how simple what you cannot do is?" -Ernest Hemingway
"There's something romantic about poverty when you're young and hopeful." -Ernest Hemingway
"If he had known how many men in history have had to use a hill to die on it would not have cheered him any for, in the moment he was passing through, men are not impressed by what has happened to other men in similar circumstances any more than a widow of one day is helped by the knowledge that other loved husbands have died." -Ernest Hemingway
"Bana bak, Billy, bir sır vereyim sana. Ne varsa çarşaflarda var, Billy. Kadınlardan uzak dur, atlardan uzak dur, sonra"" durdu, "" kartallardan uzak dur, Billy. Atları seven atları bulur, kartalları seven kartalları bulur."" Durdu, başını çarşafın altına soktu.""Gitmem gerekiyor"" dedi Uçan Billy Turner.""Kadınları seven içkiyi bulur"" dedi William Campbell. ""Atları seven..." -Ernest Hemingway
"For Whom the Bell Tolls was an immediate success. Hemingway wrote to his first wife, Hadley, that it was 'selling like frozen daiquiris in hell.'24 It has had tremendous impact and has been" -Ernest Hemingway
"Qué va," -Ernest Hemingway
"I never have any fever. My legs are full of old iron too.' 'What do you mean?' 'They're full of trench-mortar fragments, old screws and bedsprings and things.' She shook her head and smiled." -Ernest Hemingway
"Lebih baik mencintai dan kehilangan daripada tidak pernah mencintai sama sekali." -Ernest Hemingway
"Закохуватись теж, до речі, смішно й весело." -Ernest Hemingway
"Only the impossible is ever worth doing at all." -Ernest Hemingway
"His choice had been to stay in the deep dark water far out beyond all snares and traps and treacheries. My choice was to go there to find him beyond all people. Beyond all people in the world. Now we are joined together and have been since noon. And no one to help either one of us.Perhaps I should not have been a fisherman, he thought. But that was the thing that I was born for. I must surely remember to eat the tuna after it gets light." -Ernest Hemingway
"God pity the Spanish people. Any leader they have will muck them." -Ernest Hemingway
"He was nervous, and I did not try to help him any." -Ernest Hemingway
"I misjudged you,"" Harvey said. ""You're not a moron. You're only a case of arrested development." -Ernest Hemingway
"I hate the English." -Ernest Hemingway
"I thought I had paid for everything: Nor like the woman pay and pays and pays. No idea of retribution or punishment. Just an exchange of values. You gave up something and got somethingelse. Or you worked for something. You paid some way for every thing that was any good. I paid my way into enough things that I liked, so that I had a good time. Either you paid by learning about them, or by experience, or by taking chances, or by money, Enjoying living was learning to get your money's worth and knowing when you had it. You could get your money's worth.The world was a good place to buy in." -Ernest Hemingway
"He wants to stay in the whirl of his own weakness. But the river is coming. By being forced to change, he'll be powerful in change." -Ernest Hemingway
"Si eso es así, hubiera preferido pasar esta última noche de una manera distinta. Pero las últimas noches nunca son buenas. No son nunca buenas las últimas nadas. Sí, las últimas palabras son buenas a veces." -Ernest Hemingway
"Black flies, no-see-ums, deer flies, gnats and mosquitoes were instituted by the devil to force people to live in cities where he could get at them better. If it weren't for them everybody would live in the bush and he would be out of work. It was a rather successful invention." -Ernest Hemingway
"It was wonderful to walk down the long flights of stairs knowing that I'd had good luck working. I always worked until I had something done and I always stopped when I knew what was going to happen next. That way I could be sure of going on the next day." -Ernest Hemingway
"Make me a Tom Collins with coconut water and bitters to take. Put it in one of the cork holders." -Ernest Hemingway
"NE kadar çok kitap okursak; o kadar çabuk, bir yazarın gerçek görevinin bir şaheser yaratmak oldu­ ğunu ve bir daha bu işle uğraşmaması gerektiğini anlıyoruz. Bu gerçek ne kadar belirli olursa olsun, bunu kabul eden yazar o kadar azdır. Etseler bile, or­ta değerde eserler vermekten kendilerini kurtaramamaktadırlar. Yazarlar, yazacakları kitabın daima en iyi eserleri olacağını umarlar; bilmezler ki o günkü ya­şantıları artık başka ve daha iyi bir eser yaratmaları­nı engellemektedir." -Ernest Hemingway
"Kad bih je barem kakvom lukavštinom mogao natjerati da se odluči, pomisli starac. Ona je odlučila ostati u dubokoj tamnoj vodi, daleko od svih zamki, obmana i lukavština. A ja sam odlučio da je upravo ja od svih ljudi potražim. Od svih ljudi na svijetu. I sad smo ovdje skupa, još od podne. I nikog nema da pomogne ni meni ni njoj. Možda nije trebalo da budem ribar, pomisli. Ali ja sam stvoren za to." -Ernest Hemingway
"Een ijsje is niet een ijsje zonder discodip" -Ernest Hemingway
"«Avrei bisogno di una pietra, per il coltello» disse il vecchio dopo avere esaminato la legatura sull'impugnatura del remo. «Avrei dovuto portare una pietra.» Avresti dovuto portare molte cose, pensò. Ma non le hai portate, vecchio. Ora non è il momento di pensare a quello che non hai. Pensa a quello che puoi fare con quello che hai." -Ernest Hemingway
"I am afraid to die, Pilar,' he said. ‘Tengo miedo de morir. Dost thou understand?' ' ‘Then get out of bed,' I said to him. ‘There is not room in one bed for me and thee and thy fear all together." -Ernest Hemingway
"In a modern warfare, you will die like a dog for no good reason" -Ernest Hemingway
"I'll kill him though,"" he said. ""In all his greatness and his glory."" Although it is unjust, he thought. But I will show him what a man can do and what a man endures." -Ernest Hemingway
"Don Guillermo's house was no house, since he had not much money and was only a fascist to be a snob and to console himself that he must work for little" -Ernest Hemingway
"Կատվից էլ ազատ կենդանի՞: Միշտ էլ կեղտը ծածկում է: Ամենամեծ անարխիստը կատուն է:" -Ernest Hemingway
"Oh, I love you so. Please put your hand there again.""""It's not been away."" I turned her so I could see her face when I kissed her and I saw that her eyes were shut. I kissed both her shut eyes. I thought she was probably a little crazy. It was all right if she was. I did not care what I was getting into." -Ernest Hemingway
"I did not care what it was all about. All I wanted to know was how to live in it. Maybe if you found out how to live in it you learned from that what it was all about." -Ernest Hemingway
"You have it now and that is all your whole life is; now. There is nothing else than now. There is neither yesterday, certainly, nor is there any tomorrow. How old must you be before you know that? There is only now, and if now is only two days, then two days is your life and everything in it will be in proportion." -Ernest Hemingway
"write. There was going to be everything that a man needed to write except to be alone. Zelda" -Ernest Hemingway
"کسی که فقط فکر حفظ جان باشد وجودش برای دیگران مایه خطر است. __زنگ ها برای که به صدا در می آید/ ارنست همینگوی" -Ernest Hemingway
"But you haven't got the boy, he thought. You have only yourself..." -Ernest Hemingway
"Докато ние двамата разговаряхме, другите шумно спореха. Да, бях имал намерение да отида в Абруците. Не бях ходил никога из тези места, дето пътищата са замръзнали и твърди като желязо, дето студът е остър и сух, а снегът сух и като прах, със следи от зайци по него, дето селяните свалят шапки и ти казват „господарю' и дето ловът е изобилен. Вместо тези местности бях видял само дима на кафенетата, нощите, когато стаята се върти около тебе и ти трябва да приковеш погледа си в една точка на стената, за да я видиш, че спира да се върти, нощите, прекарани в леглото, пиян, със съзнанието, че извън това няма нищо друго, и странното чувство да се събуждаш, без да знаеш кой е до тебе, а в тъмнината светът наоколо ти се струва тъй недействителен, толкова възбуждащ, че започваш отново, равнодушен, без да знаеш защо, убеден, че нищо, нищо друго не съществува и че всичко ти е все едно. Внезапно се замисляш дълбоко, после заспиваш и се събуждаш сутринта с чувството, че всичко е свършено; и всичко е тъй грубо, тъй ясно и отчетливо, а много често възниква и спор за цената. Понякога удоволствието продължава, изпитваш нежност и топлота дори на закуска, на обед. Но понякога всичко приятно е заличено, радваш се, че излизаш на улицата, и пак започваш друг един ден и друга една нощ. Опитвах се да му кажа разликата между деня и нощта и защо нощта струва повече от деня, освен ако той не е много ясен и много студен, и не успявах да му го обясня, както не мога и сега да го обясня. Но който е преживял това чувство, знае разликата." -Ernest Hemingway
"Миналата седмица направил опит да се самоубие- каза единият келнер.- Защо?- Бил е отчаян.- От какво?- От нищо.- Откъде знаеш, че е от нищо?- Той има много пари.…- Трябва да е осемдесетгодишен. - Самотен е. А аз не съм самотен. Имам жена и тя сега ме чака в леглото.- Някога и той е имал жена.- Сега жена не му е нужна.- Кой знае? Може би с жена ще му е по-добре." -Ernest Hemingway
"Le monde nous brise tous, beaucoup en ressortent plus forts à l'endroit des fractures." -Ernest Hemingway
"vuelta" -Ernest Hemingway
"The sadness will dissipate as the sun rises. It is like a mist." -Ernest Hemingway
"Cada día es un nuevo día. Es mejor tener suerte. Pero yo prefiero ser exacto. Luego, cuando venga la suerte, estaré dispuesto." -Ernest Hemingway
"... on je volio razmišljati o svemu što proživljava a kako nije imao što čitati niti je imalo radio, mnogo je razmišljao i nastavio je razmišljati i o grijehu. Nisi ti ubio ribu samo da preživiš i da je prodaš na tržnici, pomisli. Ubio si je iz ponosa i zato što si ribar. Volio si je dok je bila živa, i volio si je i poslije toga. Ako je voliš, nije grijeh ubiti je. Ili je možda zato još veći grijeh?" -Ernest Hemingway
"Incluso di lecturas de los fragmentos ya listos de mi novela, que viene a ser lo más bajo en que puede caer un escritor," -Ernest Hemingway
"In principle, I would have brought you a bottle of brand.''In principle,' Para said and smiled, for the first time, showing yellowed teeth. 'Such a beautiful expression. Would you like some Grappa?" -Ernest Hemingway
"IT WAS NOW LUNCH TIME AND THEY WERE all sitting under the double green fly of the dining tent pretending that nothing had happened." -Ernest Hemingway
"there" -Ernest Hemingway
"There is nothing noble about being superior to your fellow man; true nobility is being superior to your former self." -Ernest Hemingway
"For warfare, a man needs only his mind. But to win, it requires a talent and resources." -Ernest Hemingway
"You can write any time people will leave you alone and not interrupt you. Or rather you can if you will be ruthless enough about it. But the best writing is certainly when you are in love. If it is all the same to you I would rather not expound on that." -Ernest Hemingway
"And we're going to have all the books in the world to read and when we go on trips we can take them." -Ernest Hemingway
"The Old Man and the Sea was an immediate success throughout the world. It was specifically cited when the Nobel Prize for Literature was awarded to Hemingway in 1954. In fact, its success was so great that it lead to a broad revival of interest in all of Hemingway's works which has continued to the present day. It is a curious fact of literary history that a story which describes the loss of a gigantic prize provided the author with the greatest prize of his career. —Charles Scribner Jr." -Ernest Hemingway
"... kadangi aš labai daug patyriau gyvenime, man dabar viskas teikia malonumą." -Ernest Hemingway
"Your nationalities do not show when you are dead." -Ernest Hemingway
"Imagination? It is the one thing beside honesty that a good writer must have. The more he learns from experience the more he can imagine.' - Ernest Hemingway" -Ernest Hemingway
"- That's easy. I can always borrow two dollars and a half.- I think perhaps I can too. But I try not to borrow. First you borrow. Then you beg." -Ernest Hemingway
"It is a strange feeling to have an animal come toward you consciously seeking to kill you, his eyes open looking at you, and see the oncoming of the lowered horn that he intends to kill you with. It gives enough of a sensation so that there are always men willing to go into the capeas for the pride of having experienced it and the pleasure of having tried some bullfighting manœuvre with a real bull although the actual pleasure at the time may not be great." -Ernest Hemingway
"Galbūt sužinojęs, kaip gyventi, suprastum, ir kas yra gyvenimas" -Ernest Hemingway
"was too simple to wonder when he had attained humility. But he knew he had attained it and he knew it was not disgraceful and it carried no loss of true pride." -Ernest Hemingway
"In the chair, watching the fire and thinking of Pop and how sad it was that he was not immortal, and how happy I was that he had been able to be with us so much, that we'd been lucky enough to have three or four things together that were like the Old Days along with just the happiness of being together and talking and joking, I fell asleep." -Ernest Hemingway
"I lay awake thinking and my mind jumping around. Then I couldn't keep away from it, and I started to think about Brett and my mind stopped jumping around and started to go in sort of smooth waves. Then all of a sudden I started to cry. (27)" -Ernest Hemingway
"Ya sé que la noche no es parecida al día, que las cosas ocurren de otra manera, que las cosas de la noche no pueden explicarse a la luz del día porque entonces ya no existen; y la noche puede ser espantosa para una persona sola tan pronto como se dé cuenta de su soledad; pero, con Catherine, no había, por decirlo así, ninguna diferencia entre el día y la noche, sólo que las noches eran aún mejores que los días." -Ernest Hemingway
"Se non mi ami, non importa, sono in grado di amare per tutti e due." -Ernest Hemingway
"It was considered a virtue not to talk unnecessarily at sea" -Ernest Hemingway
"The dancers were in a crowd, so you did not see the intricate play of the feet. All you saw was the heads and shoulders going up and down, up and down." -Ernest Hemingway
"Take a good rest, small bird,' he said. 'Then go in and take your chance like any man or bird or fish." -Ernest Hemingway
"He held them in his hand and looked at them as a man who was panning for gold, expecting only flakes, would look at four nuggets in his pan. The four bullets had black noses. Now the meat was out of them, the short twist rifling showed clearly. They were 9mm standard issue for the Schmeisser machine pistol. They made the man very happy. They picked up all the hulls, he thought. But they left these as plain as calling cards." -Ernest Hemingway
"Qué va,' the boy said. 'It is what a man must do.' They" -Ernest Hemingway
"- That's easy. I can always borrow two dollars and a half.- I think perhaps I can too. But I try not to borrow. First you borrow. Then you beg." -Ernest Hemingway
"For him it was a dark passage which led to nowhere, then to nowhere, then again to nowhere, once again to nowhere, always and for ever to nowhere, heavy on the elbows in the earth to nowhere, dark, never any end to nowhere, hung on all time always to unknown nowhere, this time and again always and again to nowhere, now not to be borne once again always and again to nowhere, now beyond all bearing up, up, up and into nowhere, suddenly, scaldingly, holdingly all nowhere gone and time absolutely still and they were born there, time having stopped and he felt the earth move out and away from under them." -Ernest Hemingway
"he had always had a great tolerance which seemed the nicest thing about him if it were not the most sinister. All" -Ernest Hemingway
"Most people are heartless about turtles because a turtle's heart will beat for hours after he has been cut up and butchered. But the old man thought, I have such a heart too and my feet and hands are like theirs. He ate the white eggs to give himself strength. He ate them all through May to be strong inSeptember and October for the truly big fish." -Ernest Hemingway
"Ahora no es el momento de pensar en lo que no tienes. Piensa en lo que puedes hacer con lo que hay." -Ernest Hemingway
"We ate well and cheaply and drank well and cheaply and slept well and warm together and loved each other. ‘I" -Ernest Hemingway
"There is never any ending to Paris and the memory of each person who has lived in it differs from that of any other. We always returned to it no matter who we were nor how it was changed nor with what difficulties nor what ease it could be reached. It was always worth it and we received a return for whatever we brought to it." -Ernest Hemingway
"Ոչ մի վերջին բան լավ չի լինում:" -Ernest Hemingway
"Maybe I have had all my life in three days, he thought. If that's true I wish we would have spent the last night differently. But last nights are never any good. Last nothings are any good." -Ernest Hemingway
"Маю огидну звичку уявляти все, що відбувається у спальнях моїх друзів." -Ernest Hemingway
"You'll be sick of me I'll be so faithful." -Ernest Hemingway
"I know how you feel, Dave,"" Andrew said when he brought the Coke. ""Nobody knows how I feel,"" David said." -Ernest Hemingway
"Я думал, что я за все заплатил. Не так, как женщины, платят, и платят, и платят. Не какое-то там воздаяние или кара. Просто обмен ценностями. Что-то уступаешь, а взамен получаешь что-то другое. Или работаешь ради чего-нибудь. Так или иначе за все, хоть отчасти хорошее, платишь. Многое из того, за что я платил, нравилось мне, и я хорошо проводил время. Платишь либо знанием, либо опытом, либо риском, либо деньгами. Пользоваться жизнью не что иное, как умение получать нечто равноценное истраченным деньгам и сознавать это. А получать полной ценой за свои деньги можно. Наш мир - солидная фирма. Превосходная как будто теория. Через пять лет, подумал я, она покажется мне такой же глупой, как все мои остальные превосходные теории." -Ernest Hemingway
"Oggi non è che un giorno qualunque di tutti i giorni che verranno. Ma quello che accadrà in tutti gli altri giorni che verranno può dipendere da quello che farai oggi" -Ernest Hemingway
"Nadie debiera estar solo en su vejez. Pero es inevitable." -Ernest Hemingway
"...there were always the books, so that you lived in the new world you had found..." -Ernest Hemingway
"Write the best story you can and throw out all the good lines." -Ernest Hemingway
"We are all broken...that's how the light gets in." -Ernest Hemingway
"When you love, you wish to do things for. You wish to sacrifice for. You wish to serve." -Ernest Hemingway
"— Скажи мне, Том. Что тебя так огорчает?  — El mundo enterо (Весь мир)." -Ernest Hemingway
"You were fighting against exactly what you were doing and being forced into doing to have any chance of winning" -Ernest Hemingway
"Bağnazlık tuhaf şeydi. Bağnaz olmak için haklı olduğunuza iyice emin olmanız gerekir, insanın kendisini tutması kadar başka hiçbir şey bu kesinliği, haklılığı sağlayamaz. İnsanın kendini olayların üstüne çıkarması, sapkınlığın düşmanıdır.Ölmek hiçbir şeydi. El Sordo'nun ölümle ilgili bir korkusu yok­tu, ne de ölümle ilgili bir görüntü vardı kafasında. Ama yaşamak, bir tepenin yamacında rüzgarla salınan bir buğday tarlasıydı. Yaşamak, gökyüzünde dolanan bir atmacaydı. Tahılın savrulduğu, samanların uçuştuğu harman yerinde, tozlar içinde duran toprak bir testideki suydu yaşamak. Bacaklarının arasındaki bir attı yaşamak; bir baca­ğının altındaki karabinaydı, bir tepeydi, bir koyaktı, bir dereydi ke­narında, vadinin uzak kıyısında, tepelerin ötesindeki ağaçların uzan­dığı." -Ernest Hemingway
"Puso la embarcación sobre su derrota después que se ajustó el saco a los hombros. Ahora navegó ligeramente y no tenía sentimientos ni pensamientos de ningún tipo. Se encontraba ahora más allá de todo y gobernó el bote para alcanzar el puerto lo mejor y más inteligentemente que pudiera. Los tiburones, durante la noche, atacan las carroñas como uno pudiera recoger migajas de una mesa. El viejo no los tomaba en cuenta. No hacía caso de absolutamente nada, excepto del gobierno del bote. Únicamente se daba cuenta de lo bien y ligeramente que navegaba el bote ahora que no tenía un enorme peso amarrado al costado." -Ernest Hemingway
"That is why the peasant has wisdom, because he is defeated from the start. Put him in power and see how wise he is." -Ernest Hemingway
"Fornos is a café frequented only by people connected with the bullfights and by whores. There is smoke, hurrying of waiters, noise of glasses and you have the noisy privacy of a big café." -Ernest Hemingway
"But there was a thing here that I never saw. I don't think you've ever seen it either. There were Americans came here and they put whiskey in the beer.""""No,"" I said.""Oui. My God, yes, that's true. Et aussi une femme qui a vomis sur la table!""""Comment?""""C'est vrai. Elle a vomis sur la table. Et après elle a vomis dans ses shoes. And afterward they come back and say they want to come again and have another party the next Saturday, and I say no, my God, no! When they came I locked the door." -Ernest Hemingway
"Bed is my friend" -Ernest Hemingway
"The God takes care for drunks" -Ernest Hemingway
"My' she said. 'We're lucky that you found that place.' 'We're always lucky,' I said and like a fool I did not knock on wood. There was wood everywhere in that apartment to knock on too." -Ernest Hemingway
"É uma estupidez não ter esperança." -Ernest Hemingway
"We can have everything.""""No, we can't.""""We can have the whole world."" ""No, we can't.""""We can go everywhere.""""No, we can't. It isn't ours any more."" ""Its ours."" ""No, it isn't." -Ernest Hemingway
"In order to write about life first you must live it.' ― Ernest Hemingway" -Ernest Hemingway
"it in those days." -Ernest Hemingway
"no man was ever alone on the sea." -Ernest Hemingway
"Նա արհամարհում էր բոլոր նրանց, ովքեր ընկճվում էին կյանքի հարվածների տակ։ Այդպես էլ պիտի լինե՛ր, նա չպե՛տք է նրանց համակրեր, քանի որ ինքն ամեն ինչ հասկանում էր։ Նա մտածում էր, որ ամեն դժվարություն կհաղթահարի, որ աշխարհում ոչինչ չի կարող կոտրել նրան, եթե միայն ինքն ուշադրություն չդարձնի ոչ մի բանի վրա։Շա՜տ լավ։ Նա հիմա ուշադրություն չի դարձնում նաեւ մահվա՛ն վրա։ Ցավը միակ բանն էր, որից նա միշտ վախեցել է։" -Ernest Hemingway
"People who interfered in your life always did it for your own good and I figured it out finally that what they wanted was for your to conform completely and never differ from some accepted surface standard and then dissipate the way traveling salesmen would at a convention in every stupid and boreing way there was." -Ernest Hemingway
"These were relics of his wife. Once there had been a tinted photograph of his wife on the wall but he had taken it down because it made him too lonely to see it and it was on the shelf in the corner under his clean shirt." -Ernest Hemingway
"This government has had much money. Much gold. They will give nothing to their friends. You are a friend. All right. You will do it for nothing and should not be rewarded. But to people representing an important firm or a country which is not friendly but must be influenced—to such people they give much. It is very interesting when you follow it closely." -Ernest Hemingway
"There are no men like them when they are good, but when they get bad, there's no world which is worse." -Ernest Hemingway
"You ought to write, he told himself. Maybe you will again some time." -Ernest Hemingway
"Well, I knew I would not be killed. Not in this war. It did not have anything to do with me. It seemed no more dangerous to me myself than war in the movies. I wished to God it was over though. Maybe it would finish this summer." -Ernest Hemingway
"Oh, in Hong Kong the millionaires had scouts all through the country. All over China. It was just like the Brooklyn Dodgers' baseball team looking for ballplayers. As soon as a beautiful girl was located in any town or village their agents bought her and she was shipped in and trained and groomed and cared for." -Ernest Hemingway
"- Onde iremos viver depois da guerra?- Provavelmente num asilo de velhos - disse ela. - Durante três anos esperei infantilmente que a guerra acabasse no Natal. Mas agora não espero já o fim dela senão para quando o nosso filho for major.------Henry e Catherine in O Adeus Às Armas, Ernest Hemingway" -Ernest Hemingway
"Say, there's plenty of Americans on this train. They've got seven cars of them from Dayton, Ohio." -Ernest Hemingway
"En haukar deila við aungvan." -Ernest Hemingway
"These people made it a comfortable café since they were all interested in each other and in their drinks or coffees, or infusions, and in the papers and periodicals which were fastened to rods, and no one was on exhibition." -Ernest Hemingway
"You don't have to destroy me. Do you? I'm only a middle-aged woman who loves you and wants to do what you want to do. I've been destroyed two or three times already. You wouldn't want to destroy me again, would you?" -Ernest Hemingway
"Take it back."" ""Sure. Anything. I never heard of Brett Ashley. How's that? ""No. Not that. About me going to hell."" ""Oh, don't go to hell,"" I said. ""Stick around. We're just starting lunch." -Ernest Hemingway
"This wine is too good for toast-drinking, my dear. You don't want to mix emotions up with a wine like that. You lose the taste." -Ernest Hemingway
"you are so brave & quiet i forget you are suffering." -Ernest Hemingway
"Счастье — это крепкое здоровье и слабая память." -Ernest Hemingway
"I tried to tell about the night and the difference between the night and the day and how the night was better unless the day was very clean and cold and I could not tell it; as I cannot tell it now. But if you have had it you know." -Ernest Hemingway
"Ir jis matė aukso rusvumo veidą, ir rusvai pilkas akis, ir šypsančias sodrias lūpas, ir saulės išblukintus trumpus plaukus, ir ji pakėlė veidą, ir nusišypsojo jam į akis. Tai tikrai buvo tiesa." -Ernest Hemingway
"I think that we are born into a time of great difficulty, he thought. I think any other time was probably easier. One suffers little because all of us have been formed to resist suffering. They who suffer are unsuited to this climate. But it is a time of difficult decisions. The fascists attacked and made our decisions for us. We fight to live. But I would like to have it so that I could tie a handkerchief to that bush back there and come in the daylight and take the eggs and put them under a hen and be able to see the chicks of the partridge in my own courtyard. I would like such small and regular things." -Ernest Hemingway
"It is very important to discover graceful exits like that in the newspaper business, where it is such an important part of the ethics that you should never seem to be working." -Ernest Hemingway
"For a true writer, each book should be a new beginning where he tries again for something that is beyond attainment. He should always try for something that has never been done or that others have tried and failed. Then sometimes, with great luck, he will succeed." -Ernest Hemingway
"Η συγγραφική τέχνη είναι αρχιτεκτονική και όχι σχεδιασμός εσωτερικών χώρων." -Ernest Hemingway
"am a journalist. But like all journalists I wish to write literature" -Ernest Hemingway
"Good whiskey was very pleasant. It was one of the pleasant parts of life." -Ernest Hemingway
"Then we'd start off jogging around the infield once, maybe, with him ahead, running nice, and then turn out the gate and along one of those roads with all the trees along both sides of them that run out from San Siro. I'd go ahead of him when we hit the road and I could run pretty good and I'd look around and he'd be jogging easy just behind me and after a little while I'd look around again and he'd begun to sweat. Sweating heavy and he'd just be dogging it along with his eyes on my back, but when he'd catch me looking at him he'd grin and say, 'Sweating plenty?' When my old man grinned, nobody could help but grin too. We'd keep right on running out toward the mountains and then my old man would yell, 'Hey, Joe!' and I'd look back and he'd be sitting under a tree with a towel he'd had around his waist wrapped around his neck." -Ernest Hemingway
"He is performing a work of art and he is playing with death, bringing it closer, closer, closer, to himself, a death that you know is in the horns because you have the canvas-covered bodies of the horses on the sand to prove it. He gives the feeling of his immortality, and, as you watch it, it becomes yours. Then when it belongs to both of you, he proves it with the sword." -Ernest Hemingway
"Nie chciałeś wziąć ze mną ślubu w kościele i to złamało serce mojej biednej matce, o czym dobrze wiesz. Tak cię kochałam, że było mi obojętne, czyje serce łamię dla ciebie. Och, że też mogłam być taka głupia. Sobie samej też złamałam serce. Wyrzekłam się wszystkiego, w co wierzyłam i co było mi drogie, bo byłeś taki cudowny i tak mnie kochałeś, że tylko twoja miłość się liczyła. Miłość była jedyną piękną rzeczą na świecie, prawda? Miłość była skarbem, który tylko myśmy posiadali i którego nikt poza nami nie posiadał, i nie mógł posiadać, prawda? Ty byleś geniuszem, a ja byłam twoim całym życiem. Byłam twoją towarzyszką życia i twoim ślicznym czarnym kwiatem. Sentymentalne bzdury. Miłość to jeszcze jedno plugawe kłamstwo. […] Do diabla z miłością. […] Miłość to te wszystkie plugawe sztuczki, których mnie nauczyłeś, a które sam wyczytałeś pewnie w jakichś książkach. Doskonale. Tylko ze ja mam dosyć ciebie i mam dosyć miłości. Twojego rodzaju miłości. Ty pisarzu." -Ernest Hemingway
"All I wanted to do now was get back to Africa. We had not left it, yet, but when I would wake in the night I would lie, listening, homesick for it already." -Ernest Hemingway
"Sad nije vrijeme da razmišljaš o onome što ti fali. Radije razmišljaj o tome šta možeš s onim što imaš." -Ernest Hemingway
"The fish is my friend too,' he said aloud. 'I have never seen or heard of such a fish. But I must kill him. I am glad we do not have to try to kill the stars.' Imagine if each day a man must try to kill the moon, he thought. The moon runs away. But imagine if a man each day should have to try to kill the sun? We were born lucky, he thought. Then he was sorry for the great fish that had nothing to eat and his determination to kill him never relaxed in his sorrow for him. How many people will he feed, he thought. But are they worthy to eat him? No, of course not. There is no one worthy of eating him from the manner of his behaviour and his great dignity. I do not understand these things, he thought. But it is good that we do not have to try to kill the sun or the moon or the stars. It is enough to live on the sea and kill our true brothers. Now," -Ernest Hemingway
"there were always the books, so that you lived in the new world you had found," -Ernest Hemingway
"When you stop you are as empty, and at the same time never empty but filling, as when you have made love to someone you love. Nothing can hurt you, nothing can happen, nothing means anything until the next day when you do it again. It is the wait until the next day that is hard to get through." -Ernest Hemingway
"One of my favorite quotes:""There is no friends as loyal as a book"" -Ernest Hemingway" -Ernest Hemingway
"Чтобы напиться до безобразия, мне теперь хватает одной рюмки. Не могу только запомнить, тринадцатой или четырнадцатой." -Ernest Hemingway
"If there were God, never would He have permitted what I have seen with my own eyes" -Ernest Hemingway
"He loved green turtles and hawk-bills with their elegance and speed and their great value and he had a friendly contempt for the huge, stupid loggerheads, yellow in their armour-plating, strange in their love-making, and happily eating the Portuguese men-of-war with their eyes shut." -Ernest Hemingway
"O mundo quebra toda a gente, e depois muitos ficam mais fortes no lugar da fractura. Mas àqueles que não conseguem (sic) quebrar, mata-os. Mata os muito bons, os muitos doces, os muito corajosos, imparcialmente. Se não sois desses, também vos há-de matar, mas nesse caso não será particularmente apressado.---The world breaks everyone and afterward many are strong at thebroken places. But those that will not break it kills. It kills the very good and the very gentle and the very brave impartially. If you are none of these you can be sure it will kill you too but there will be no special hurry." -Ernest Hemingway
"... mér fanst þær fyrirgefa okkur þó við værum ásfángin og gift - það mundi altsaman lagast með tímanum" -Ernest Hemingway
"...Really cheerful people are usually the bravest..." -Ernest Hemingway
"There is a class that controls a country that is stupid and does not realize anything and never can. This is why we have this war." -Ernest Hemingway
"Un giorno chiesi alla padrona di un'altra bancarella, che era mia amica, se i proprietari vendessero mai i libri.-No- disse- E' tutta roba gettata via. Ecco perché si sa che non valgono niente.Gli amici se li scambiano per leggerli sulle navi.-Senza dubbio-disse-devono lasciarne parecchi sulle navi.-Sì-dissi-la compagnia di navigazione li conserva e li fa rilegare ed è così che si formano le biblioteche delle navi." -Ernest Hemingway
"At breakfast they were all three at the table before daylight and Francis Macomber found that, of all the many men that he had hated, he hated Robert Wilson the most. 'Sleep well?' Wilson asked in his throaty voice, filling a pipe. 'Did you?' 'Topping,' the white hunter told him. You bastard, thought MaComber, you insolent bastard." -Ernest Hemingway
"First you're indebted and then you beg." -Ernest Hemingway
"Al acercarse a los cuarenta años, Ernest Hemingway se había transformado en una peculiar figura" -Ernest Hemingway
"Bilo bi ludo ne nadati se, pomisli. Osim toga, mislim da bi to bio i grijeh. Nemoj sad misliti na grijeh, pomisli. Imaš dosta problema i bez grijeha. A i ne razumiješ se u te stvari. Ne razumijem se u te stvari i nisam siguran da vjerujem u sve to. Možda je bio grijeh ubiti ribu. Mislim da je tako iako sam je ubio da prehranim sebe i mnoge druge. Ali onda je sve grijeh. Nemoj misliti na grijeh. Kasno je da misliš na grijeh, a ima i ljudi koji su za to plaćeni. Neka oni misle na te stvari. Ti si rođen da budeš ribar ko što je i riba rođena da bude riba." -Ernest Hemingway
"I'm going back to Mike.' I could feel her crying as I held her close. 'He's so damned nice and he's so awful. He's my sort of thing." -Ernest Hemingway
"Se si sta abbastanza a lungo in una stanza la veduta, qualunque sia, acquista un gran valore e diventa importantissima e nessuno la cambierebbe, nemmeno per una diversa angolazione." -Ernest Hemingway
"Ես չեմ կարող, որովհետև, եթե հասկանամ, պիտի ներեմ:" -Ernest Hemingway
"I do not think they believed a word of the story and I thought it was silly but it was like a law-court. You did not want something reasonable, you wanted something technical and then stuck to it without explanations." -Ernest Hemingway
"Bir brendi daha için"" dedi Kont.""Tepede içeriz.""""Hayır. Burası sessiz; burada için.""""Sen ve sessizliğin"" dedi Brett. ""Erkeklerin bu sessizlik düşkünlüğü ne böyle?""""Hoşumuza gidiyor"" dedi Kont. ""Tıpkı gürültünün senin hoşuna gitmesi gibi canım." -Ernest Hemingway
"You can't get away from yourself by moving from one place to another. There's nothing to that." -Ernest Hemingway
"Listen, Robert, going to another country doesn't make any difference. I've tried all that. You can't get away from yourself by moving from one place to another. There's nothing to that." -Ernest Hemingway
"This wine is too good for toast-drinking, my dear. You don't want to mix emotions up with wine like that. You lose the taste." -Ernest Hemingway
"Quem me dera uma pedra para a faca, continuou, depois de ter verificado a amarração ao remo. Eu devia ter trazido uma pedra. Devias ter trazido muitas coisas. Mas não as trouxeste, meu velho. E agora já não é ocasião de pensar no que não tens. Pensa no que podes fazer com o que há." -Ernest Hemingway
"But why did I ever leave Tom's mother in the first place? You'd better not think about that, he told himself." -Ernest Hemingway
"Brett was in bed. She had just been brushing her hair and held the brush in her hand. The room was in that disorder produced only by those who have always had servants." -Ernest Hemingway
"If you ever live to be as old as I am you will find many things strange.''You never seem old.''It is the body that is old. Sometimes I am afraid I will break off a finger as one breaks a stick of chalk. And the spirit is no older and not much wiser." -Ernest Hemingway
"So we sat and thought deeply for awhile." -Ernest Hemingway
"Mes mylėdavomės kambary, kur prieš balkoną kabojo žaliuzės iš medinių lentelių ir dvelkė vėjelis pro atlenkiamą langą virš balkono durų. Mylėdavomės tame kambary, kur nuo nuleistų žaliuzių ir dieną būdavo prieblanda, o iš gatvės dvelkdavo gėlių turgavietės kvapais ir sudegusiu paraku nuo petardų traca, kuri buvo nutiesta per gatves ir per feriją sproginėdavo kiekvieną popietę. Tai buvo fejerverkų linija, nutiesta per visą miestą, - petardos, sujungtos tarpusavy, - ir trenksmingi sprogimai bėgdavo tramvajų stulpais ir laidais, peršokdami nuo stulpo ant stulpo ir taip šaižiai pokšėdami, kad sunku įsivaizduoti." -Ernest Hemingway
"Հետո նրանք եղան իրար հետ, ու թեև ժամացուցի սլաքը շարունակեց իր շարժումը, արդեն աննկատ, նրանք գիտեին, որ ինչ պատահի նրանցից մեկին, չի կաարող չպատահել և մյուսին, որ սրանից ավելին չի լինի, որ սա է ամենը և սա է ընդմիշտ, որ սա այն է ինչ եղել է և պետք է նորից լիներ ու այժմ լինում է: Սա է, որից զրկվում էին: Իրենցն է հիմա, եղել է առաջ, լինելու է միշտ, և այս պահին, և այս պահին, և այս պահին: Ոհ, այս պահը, այս միակ պահը, ամեն ինչից վեր պահը, և չկա այլ պահ քեզնից բացի:" -Ernest Hemingway
"کفش بچه ، تقریبا نو، برای فروش" -Ernest Hemingway
"I wish I could see the glow from the lights." -Ernest Hemingway
"...it's a big misconception: the wisdom of the old people. They don't become wiser. Just more cautious." -Ernest Hemingway
"Όλα τα καλά βιβλία έχουν κάτι κοινό: είναι πιο αληθινά απ' ό,τι αν είχαν συμβεί πραγματικά." -Ernest Hemingway
"he knew no man was ever alone on the sea." -Ernest Hemingway
"There was never a child so lovely, but his mother was glad to get him to sleep." -Ernest Hemingway
"hope no fish will come along so great that he will prove us wrong." -Ernest Hemingway
"Being against evil doesn't make you good." -Ernest Hemingway
"Toată lumea omoară pe toată lumea într-un fel sau altul. Pescuitul mă omoară în aceeași măsură în care mă ține în viață." -Ernest Hemingway
"The Colonel's Lady and Judy O'Grady are Lesbians under their skin." -Ernest Hemingway
"The world breaks everyone and afterward many are strong at the broken places. But those that will not break it kills." -Ernest Hemingway
"cannot" -Ernest Hemingway
"In the cottage the doctor, sitting on the bed in his room, saw a pile of medical journals on the floor by the bureau. They were still in their wrappers unopened. It irritated him." -Ernest Hemingway
"Where will we have lunch?' I asked Brett. The bar was cool. You could feel the heat outside through the window. 'Here?' asked Brett. 'It's rotten here in the hotel. Do you know a place called Botín's?' I asked the barman. 'Yes, sir. Would you like to have me write out the address?' 'Thank you.' We lunched up-stairs at Botín's. It is one of the best restaurants in the world. We had roast young suckling pig and drank rioja alta. Brett did not eat much. She never ate much. I ate a very big meal and drank three bottles of rioja alta." -Ernest Hemingway
"«Debiste haber traído muchas cosas —pensó—. Pero no las has traído, viejo. Ahora no es el momento de pensar en lo que no tienes. Piensa en lo que puedes hacer con lo que hay»." -Ernest Hemingway
"H is talent was as natural as the pattern that was made by the dust on a butterfly's wings." -Ernest Hemingway
"If you have not seen the day of revolution in a small town where all know all in the town and always have known all, you have seen nothing." -Ernest Hemingway
"Cruise around by yourself and see what happens to you." -Ernest Hemingway
"of Esquire contained an article entitled 'On the Blue Water: A Gulf Stream Letter,' written by the magazine's" -Ernest Hemingway
"When you cannot make friends any more in your head is the worst." -Ernest Hemingway
"I hate him, too,' she shivered. 'I hate his damned suffering." -Ernest Hemingway
"Rome is the mother of nations." -Ernest Hemingway
"Tommy,"" Willie said. ""I love you, you son of a bitch, and don't die.""Thomas Hudson looked at him without moving his head.""Try and understand if it isn't too hard.""Thomas looked at him. He felt far away now and there were no problems at all. He felt the ship gathering her speed and the lovely throb of her engines against his shoulder blades which rested hard against the boards. H elooked up and there was the sky that he had always loved and he looked across the great lagoon that he was quite sure, now, he would never paint and he eased his position a little to lessen the pain. The engines were around three thousand now, he thought, and they came through the deck and into him. ""I think I understand, Willie,"" he said.""Oh shit,"" Willie said. ""You never understand anybody that loves you." -Ernest Hemingway
"The punishment of hunger, and that he is against something that he does not comprehend, is everything." -Ernest Hemingway
"- 'That's easy. I can always borrow two dollars and a half.'- 'I think perhaps I can too. But I try not to borrow. First you borrow. Then you beg." -Ernest Hemingway
"His father had dealt so lightly with evil, giving it no chance ever and denying its importance so that it had no status and no shape nor dignity. He treated evil like an old entrusted friend, David thought, and evil, when she poxed him, never knew she'd scored. His father was not vulnerable he knew and, unlike most people he had known, only death could kill him." -Ernest Hemingway
"Sylvia had a lively, sharply sculptured face, brown eyes that were as alive as a small animal's and as gay as a young girl's, and wavy brown hair that was brushed back from her fine forehead and cut thick below her ears and at the line of the collar of the brown velvet jacket she wore. She had pretty legs and she was kind, cheerful and interested, and loved to make jokes and gossip. No one that I ever knew was nicer to me." -Ernest Hemingway
"Asla çok uzun konuşmazdık. Birbirimizin hislerini keşfetmenin hazzını yaşardık sadece." -Ernest Hemingway
"I am not religious,' he said. 'But I will say ten Our Fathers and ten Hail Marys that I should catch this fish, and I promise to make a pilgrimage to the Virgin of Cobre if I catch him. That is a promise.' He commenced to say his prayers mechanically. Sometimes he would be so tired that he could not remember the prayer and then he would say them fast so that they would come automatically. Hail Marys are easier to say than Our Fathers, he thought. 'Hail Mary full of Grace the Lord is with thee. Blessed art thou among women and blessed is the fruit of thy womb, Jesus. Holy Mary, Mother of God, pray for us sinners now and at the hour of our death. Amen.' Then he added, 'Blessed Virgin, pray for the death of this fish. Wonderful though he" -Ernest Hemingway
"I'm getting as bored with dying as with everything else, he thought. 'It's a bore,' he said out loud. 'What is, my dear?' 'Anything you do too bloody long." -Ernest Hemingway
"You're my religion, you're all I've got" -Ernest Hemingway
"Remember the woods were God's first temples." -Ernest Hemingway
"On his way back to the living room he passed a mirror in the dining room and looked in it. His face looked strange. He smiled at the face in the mirror and it grinned back. He winked at it and went on. It was not his face but it didn't make any difference." -Ernest Hemingway
"The completely unambitious writer and the really good unpublished poem are the things we lack most at this time. There is, of course, the problem of sustenance." -Ernest Hemingway
"He talked of his work as something altogether apart from himself. There was nothing conceited or braggartly about him." -Ernest Hemingway
"You know when I am in the U.S.S.R. people write to me in ""Pravda"" when there is an injustice in a town in Azerbaijan. They say ""Karkov"" will help us." -Ernest Hemingway
"I wish I could feed the fish, he thought. He is my brother. But I must kill him and keep strong to do it." -Ernest Hemingway
"I have a Thompson SubMachine gun and we shoot sharks with it. As soon as they put their heads out we give them a burst." -Ernest Hemingway
"I want it to be rugged,' Roger had said. 'I'm going to start new again.' 'How many times is it now you've started new?' 'Too many,' Roger had said. 'And you don't have to rub it in." -Ernest Hemingway
"¿No sabe usted que los escritores nunca hablan más que de sus propios apuros?" -Ernest Hemingway
"Catherine saiu. Deus sabe que eu não queria apaixonar-me por ela. Não me apaixonar por mulher nenhuma. Mas Deus sabe que, apesar disso, me apaixonara, e agora ali estava na cama, naquele quarto do hospital de Milão, e passava-me pela cabeça toda a espécie de coisas, mas sentia-me extraordinariamente bem,...------------------O Adeus Às Armas, Ernest Hemingway" -Ernest Hemingway
"The middle boy always reminded Thomas Hudson of an otter. He had the same color hair as an otter's fur and it had almost the same texture as that of an underwater animal and he browned all over in a strange dark gold tan. He always reminded his father of the sort of animal that has a sound and humorous life by itself. Otters and bears are the animals that joke most and bears, of course, are very close to men. This boy would never be wide enough and strong enough to be a bear and he would never be an athlete, nor did he want to be; but he had a lovely small-animal quality and he had a good mind and a life of his own. He was affectionate and he had a sense of justice and was good company. He was also a Cartesian doubter and an avid arguer and he teased well and without meanness although sometimes he teased toughly. He had other qualities no one knew about and the other two boys respected him immensely although they tried to tease him and tear him down on any point where he was vulnerable. Naturally they had rows among themselves and they teased each other with considerable malice, but they were well mannered and respectful with grown-ups." -Ernest Hemingway
"You saw fear and apprehension. The fear was made by what he had been through. The apprehension was for the possibility of evil he imagined." -Ernest Hemingway
"Mais, pensa-t-il, je les maintiens avec la précision voulue. Seulement je n'ai plus de chance. Mais qui sait ? Peut-être aujourd'hui. Chaque jour est un jour nouveau. Il vaut mieux avoir de la chance. Mais je préfère être exact. Et alors quand vient la chance, on est fin prêt." -Ernest Hemingway
"get" -Ernest Hemingway
"You do not love Him at all?"" he asked.""I am afraid of Him in the night sometimes." -Ernest Hemingway
"Il avait le poisson sous les yeux et il lui suffisait de regarder ses mains et de sentir son dos contre le bois de l'arrière pour savoir que cela était bel et bien arrivé et que ce n'était pas un rêve." -Ernest Hemingway
"In order to write about life, first you must live it!" -Ernest Hemingway
"Es más fácil vivir bajo un régimen que combatirlo. Esta lucha clandestina es una cosa en la que hay muchas responsabilidades." -Ernest Hemingway
"E nisto consiste a moral: coisas que fazemos e das quais depois sentimos repulsa." -Ernest Hemingway
"You paid some way for everything that was any good. I paid my way into enough things that I liked, so that I had a good time. Either you paid by learning about them, or by experience, or by taking chances, or by money. Enjoying living was learning to get your money's worth and knowing when you had it." -Ernest Hemingway
"You ought to dream,' Bill said. 'All our biggest business men have been dreamers. Look at Ford. Look at President Coolidge. Look at Rockefeller. Look at Jo Davidson." -Ernest Hemingway
"As I lay on the bed I could see the big mirror on the other side of the room but could not see what it reflected." -Ernest Hemingway
"leer servía para no pensar en el trabajo ni preocuparse hasta el momento de reemprenderlo." -Ernest Hemingway
"world breaks every one and afterward many are strong at the broken places. But those that will not break it kills. It kills the very good and the very gentle and the very brave impartially. If you are none of these you can be sure it will kill you too but there will be no special hurry." -Ernest Hemingway
"-You father was a great man.-But I don't know. It looks to me like, when they turn some man, than there's nothing left of him." -Ernest Hemingway
"I've had plenty to worry about one time or other. I'm through worrying." -Ernest Hemingway
"We are all broken,that's how the light gets in." -Ernest Hemingway
"I drank a bottle of wine for company." -Ernest Hemingway
"— Why did you do it?— I don't know. There isn't always an explanation for everything. — Oh isn't there? I was brought up to think there was. — That's awfully nice.—  we have to go on and talk this way?— No.— That's a relief. Isn't it?" -Ernest Hemingway
"Non lo disse ad alta voce perché sapeva che a dirle, le cose belle non succedono." -Ernest Hemingway
"- <..> Bet aš norėjau tau taip pasakyti. Jeigu jau mes skirtingi, aš džiaugiuosi, kad tu esi Robertas, o aš Marija. Bet jeigu tu panorėtum pasikeisti, aš su džiaugsmu pasikeisčiau. Aš būčiau tu, nes aš tave taip myliu. - Aš nenoriu keistis. Geriau būkime viena būtybė, ir kiekvienas likime, kas esame. - Ir dabar mudu būsime viena būtybė, ir niekad nebus kitaip. - Paskui pridūrė: - Aš būsiu tu, kai tavęs čia nebebus. O, aš tave taip myliu ir privalau tavim rūpintis." -Ernest Hemingway
"You rotten son of a bitch what are you doing in here off your filthy beat?' 'Don't be insulting just because you want to act like an eccentric.' 'Take your dirty camping mouth out of here." -Ernest Hemingway
"Հարկավոր էր չմտածել այդ մասին, այդ դեպքում ամեն ինչ լավ կլիներ։ Դու հարուստ ներքնաշխարհ ունեիր ու դրա համար էլ մանր մարդ չդարձար, ինչպես մեծամասնությունն է դառնում, դու ձեւացրիր, որ թքած ունես քո գործի վրա, որն առաջ այդքան զբաղեցնում էր քեզ, բայց որը հիմա արդեն վեր էր քո ուժերից։" -Ernest Hemingway
"any mans death diminishes me, because I am involved in Mankinde" -Ernest Hemingway
"Let him think I am more man than I am and I will be so." -Ernest Hemingway
"I can't stand it to think my life is going so fast and I'm not really living it.' 'Nobody ever lives their life all the way up except bull-fighters." -Ernest Hemingway
"fems," -Ernest Hemingway
"He did not want any consequences. He did not want any consequences ever again. He wanted to live along without consequences." -Ernest Hemingway
"Sonrió una vez más. Siempre sonreía como si las corridas de toros constituyeran un secreto especial entre nosotros, un secreto verdaderamente extraño, sorprendente y profundo que compartíamos nosotros dos. Sonreía siempre, como si aquel secreto nuestro tuviera algo de lascivo para los extraños, que nosotros entendíamos perfectamente, pero que no podía explicarse a los demás porque nadie lo entendería." -Ernest Hemingway
"Աշխարհը հիանալի տեղ է, և արժի դրա համար կռվել, ու բոլորովին չեմ ուզում թողնել այն, հեռանալ: Իսկ քո բախտը բերեցց, ասաց ինքն իրեն, շատ լավ կյանք ապրեցիր:" -Ernest Hemingway
"I would always rather not know. Then, no matter what can happen, it was not me that talked." -Ernest Hemingway
"Pero incluso cuando uno ha aprendido a no mirar a las familias ni escucharlas ni contestar a las cartas, la familia encuentra algún modo de hacerse peligrosa." -Ernest Hemingway
"Never look for excitement—let excitement come to you,' was his answer." -Ernest Hemingway
"I'm full of poetry now. Rot and poetry. Rotten poetry" -Ernest Hemingway
"Los adioses no hacían más que acrecentar la turbación que le infundía semejante encuentro." -Ernest Hemingway
"I'm sorry we haven't been friends."" ""Everybody is friends when things are bad enough."" ""I'm going to be friends from now on."" ""We're all going to do a lot of things from now on,"" Thomas Hudson said. ""I wish from now on would start." -Ernest Hemingway
"I suppose it is just the loss of the immortality, he thought. Well, in a way that is quite a lot to lose." -Ernest Hemingway
"But you have not slept yet, old man,' he said aloud. 'It is half a day and a night and now another day and you have not slept. You must devise a way so that you sleep a little if he is quiet and steady. If you do not sleep you might become unclear in the head." -Ernest Hemingway
"If a man liked his friend's painting or writing, I thought it was probably like those people who like their families, and it was not polite to criticize them." -Ernest Hemingway
"... this is how Paris was in the early days when we were very poor and very happy" -Ernest Hemingway
"the clasp of the gold chain" -Ernest Hemingway
"La gente que interfería en tu vida siempre lo hacía por tu bien, y finalmente me di cuenta de que lo que querían era que te sometieras por completo, que no te diferenciaras del modelo superficial comúnmente aceptado y que después te difuminaras como lo haría un viajante en un convención, del modo más aburrido y estúpido que se puede imaginar." -Ernest Hemingway
"Non devo fargli aumentare il dolore, pensò. Il mio non importa. Posso controllarlo. Ma il suo dolore può farlo diventare matto." -Ernest Hemingway
"I knew that now, reading it in the oversensitized state of my mind after much too much brandy, I would remember it somewhere, and afterward it would seem as though it had really happened to me. I would always have it." -Ernest Hemingway
"Everybody was drunk. The whole battery was drunk going along the road in the dark. We were going to the Champagne. The lieutenant kept riding his horse out into the fields and saying to him, 'I'm drunk, I tell you, mon vieux. Oh, I am so soused." -Ernest Hemingway
"Siempre le había gustado aquella hora del día, y ahora sentía como si él mismo fuese una parte del amanecer, como si fuese una porción de esa luz gris, de ese lento aclarar que precede a la salida del sol, cuando los objetos sólidos se oscurecen, el espacio se ilumina, las luces de la noche se hacen amarillas y se esfuman a medida que avanza el día." -Ernest Hemingway
"We, in games, are not fascinated by death, its nearness and its avoidance. We are fascinated by victory and we replace the avoidance of death by the avoidance of defeat." -Ernest Hemingway
"Հագուստի անհարթությանը փոխարինել էր մաշկի ողորկությունը, սառն ու տաք ողորկությունը, արտաքւնից սառը, ներսից՝տաք:" -Ernest Hemingway
"pointed" -Ernest Hemingway
"ჩვენ იძულებული ვართ, ამ დროში ვიცხოვროთ და ვიმუშაოთ, ყველაზე უარეს დროში, რაც კი ოდესმე ყოფილა, მაგრამ მაინც შეგი- ძლია, უამრავი სასიხარულო რამ მოძებნო – თან იცოდე, რა უვარგის დროში ცხოვრობ.პოლიტიკაზე მირჩევნია არაფერი ვთქვა. მასთან ყოველი შეხება ერთადერთ შეგრძნებას მიტოვებს – თითქოს ბინძური ჭურჭლიდან რაღაც სისაძაგლე დავლიე. თავდაჯერებული პატრიოტი, სხვა ადამიანების ცხოვრებისა თუ რწმენის წარმმართველი – ასეთი გამომეტყველება აქვს ფოტოებზე პოლიტიკოსთა უმეტესობას." -Ernest Hemingway
"Qua Va,' the boy said. 'It is what a man must do." -Ernest Hemingway
"There is nothing to writing. All you do is sit down at a typewriter and bleed" -Ernest Hemingway
"lumpenproletariat." -Ernest Hemingway
"Tal vez, lejos de París, podría escribir sobre París tal como en París era capaz de escribir sobre Michigan." -Ernest Hemingway
"I would watch her while she kept very still and then take out the last two pins and it would all come down and she would drop her head and we would both be inside of it, and it was the feeling of inside a tent or behind a falls." -Ernest Hemingway
"Self-destruction day by day," -Ernest Hemingway
"Из всех животных только человек умеет смеяться, хотя как раз у него для этого меньше всего поводов." -Ernest Hemingway
"My friend Mr. Joyce has words and expressions I'd never even heard of. I'll bet nobody could outswear him in any language.' 'Then after that he made up a whole new language,' Roger said. He was lying on his back on the beach with his eyes closed. 'I can't understand that new language,' young Tom said. 'I guess I'm not old enough for it. But wait until you boys read Ulysses.' 'That's not for boys,' Thomas Hudson said. 'It isn't really. You couldn't understand it and you shouldn't try to. Really. You have to wait till you're older." -Ernest Hemingway
"gaff" -Ernest Hemingway
"Agua mala', the man said, 'you whore" -Ernest Hemingway
"No. Rien à faire. Rien. Faut pas penser. Faut accepter." -Ernest Hemingway