"Without music, life would be a mistake." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is not a lack of love, but a lack of friendship that makes unhappy marriages." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"That which does not kill us makes us stronger." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I'm not upset that you lied to me, I'm upset that from now on I can't believe you." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"And those who were seen dancing were thought to be insane by those who could not hear the music." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is hard enough to remember my opinions, without also remembering my reasons for them!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Whoever fights monsters should see to it that in the process he does not become a monster. And if you gaze long enough into an abyss, the abyss will gaze back into you." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There is always some madness in love. But there is also always some reason in madness." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"You must have chaos within you to give birth to a dancing star." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"You have your way. I have my way. As for the right way, the correct way, and the only way, it does not exist." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Sometimes people don't want to hear the truth because they don't want their illusions destroyed." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"He who has a why to live for can bear almost any how." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In heaven, all the interesting people are missing." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There are no facts, only interpretations." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The man of knowledge must be able not only to love his enemies but also to hate his friends." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The individual has always had to struggle to keep from being overwhelmed by the tribe. If you try it, you will be lonely often, and sometimes frightened. But no price is too high to pay for the privilege of owning yourself." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When we are tired, we are attacked by ideas we conquered long ago." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We should consider every day lost on which we have not danced at least once." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I cannot believe in a God who wants to be praised all the time." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The snake which cannot cast its skin has to die. As well the minds which are prevented from changing their opinions; they cease to be mind." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In individuals, insanity is rare; but in groups, parties, nations and epochs, it is the rule." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"No one can construct for you the bridge upon which precisely you must cross the stream of life, no one but you yourself alone." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Is man merely a mistake of God's? Or God merely a mistake of man?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The surest way to corrupt a youth is to instruct him to hold in higher esteem those who think alike than those who think differently." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The advantage of a bad memory is that one enjoys several times the same good things for the first time." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Man is the cruelest animal." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I am a forest, and a night of dark trees: but he who is not afraid of my darkness, will find banks full of roses under my cypresses." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The thought of suicide is a great consolation: by means of it one gets through many a dark night." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Every deep thinker is more afraid of being understood than of being misunderstood." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The higher we soar the smaller we appear to those who cannot fly." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Thoughts are the shadows of our feelings -- always darker, emptier and simpler." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Faith: not wanting to know what the truth is." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Beware that, when fighting monsters, you yourself do not become a monster... for when you gaze long into the abyss. The abyss gazes also into you." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A thinker sees his own actions as experiments and questions--as attempts to find out something. Success and failure are for him answers above all." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What, if some day or night a demon were to steal after you into your loneliest loneliness and say to you: 'This life as you now live it and have lived it, you will have to live once more and innumerable times more' ... Would you not throw yourself down and gnash your teeth and curse the demon who spoke thus? Or have you once experienced a tremendous moment when you would have answered him: 'You are a god and never have I heard anything more divine." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I would believe only in a God that knows how to dance." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"you must be ready to burn yourself in your own flame;how could you rise anew if you have not first become ashes?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The true man wants two things: danger and play. For that reason he wants woman, as the most dangerous plaything." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A casual stroll through the lunatic asylum shows that faith does not prove anything." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We have art in order not to die of the truth." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There are no beautiful surfaces without a terrible depth." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"All truly great thoughts are conceived while walking." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Be careful, lest in casting out your demon you exorcise the best thing in you." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There are two different types of people in the world, those who want to know, and those who want to believe." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"All things are subject to interpretation. Whichever interpretation prevails at a given time is a function of power and not truth." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One ought to hold on to one's heart; for if one lets it go, one soon loses control of the head too." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Silence is worse; all truths that are kept silent become poisonous." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One must still have chaos in oneself to be able to give birth to a dancing star." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A good writer possesses not only his own spirit but also the spirit of his friends." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"That which is done out of love is always beyond good and evil." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In truth,there was only one christian and he died on the cross." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"God is dead. God remains dead. And we have killed him. How shall we comfort ourselves, the murderers of all murderers? What was holiest and mightiest of all that the world has yet owned has bled to death under our knives: who will wipe this blood off us? What water is there for us to clean ourselves? What festivals of atonement, what sacred games shall we have to invent? Is not the greatness of this deed too great for us? Must we ourselves not become gods simply to appear worthy of it?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"All I need is a sheet of paperand something to write with, and thenI can turn the world upside down." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Doubt as sin. — Christianity has done its utmost to close the circle and declared even doubt to be sin. One is supposed to be cast into belief without reason, by a miracle, and from then on to swim in it as in the brightest and least ambiguous of elements: even a glance towards land, even the thought that one perhaps exists for something else as well as swimming, even the slightest impulse of our amphibious nature — is sin! And notice that all this means that the foundation of belief and all reflection on its origin is likewise excluded as sinful. What is wanted are blindness and intoxication and an eternal song over the waves in which reason has drowned." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The lonely one offers his hand too quickly to whomever he encounters." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Meaning and morality of One's life come from within oneself. Healthy, strong individuals seek self expansion by experimenting and by living dangerously. Life consists of an infinite number of possibilities and the healthy person explores as many of them as posible. Religions that teach pity, self-contempt, humility, self-restraint and guilt are incorrect. The good life is ever changing, challenging, devoid of regret, intense, creative and risky." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Ah, women. They make the highs higher and the lows more frequent." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Amor Fati – 'Love Your Fate', which is in fact your life." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Blessed are the forgetful, for they get the better even of their blunders." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Invisible threads are the strongest ties." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Art is the proper task of life. " -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What does your conscience say? — 'You should become the person you are'." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Ultimately, it is the desire, not the desired, that we love." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There is not enough love and goodness in the world to permit giving any of it away to imaginary beings." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Today as always, men fall into two groups: slaves and free men. Whoever does not have two-thirds of his day for himself, is a slave, whatever he may be: a statesman, a businessman, an official, or a scholar." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Perhaps I know best why it is man alone who laughs; he alone suffers so deeply that he had to invent laughter." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To live is to suffer, to survive is to find some meaning in the suffering." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"They muddy the water, to make it seem deep." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One repays a teacher badly if one always remains nothing but a pupil." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There is more wisdom in your body than in your deepest philosophy." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I know of no better life purpose than to perish in attempting the great and the impossible." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Stupidity in a woman is unfeminine." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A thought, even a possibility, can shatter and transform us." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"After coming into contact with a religious man I always feel I must wash my hands." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Become who you are!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Hope, in reality, is the worst of all evils because it prolongs the torments of man." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"But the worst enemy you can meet will always be yourself; you lie in wait for yourself in caverns and forests. Lonely one, you are going the way to yourself! And your way goes past yourself, and past your seven devils! You will be a heretic to yourself and witch and soothsayer and fool and doubter and unholy one and villain. You must be ready to burn yourself in your own flame: how could you become new, if you had not first become ashes?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Is it better to out-monster the monster or to be quietly devoured?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The visionary lies to himself, the liar only to others." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One must shed the bad taste of wanting to agree with many. ""Good"" is no longer good when one's neighbor mouths it. And how should there be a ""common good""! The term contradicts itself: whatever can be common always has little value. In the end it must be as it is and always has been: great things remain for the great, abysses for the profound, nuances and shudders for the refined, and, in brief, all that is rare for the rare." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To predict the behavior of ordinary people in advance, you only have to assume that they will always try to escape a disagreeable situation with the smallest possible expenditure of intelligence." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"He who would learn to fly one day must first learn to walk and run and climb and dance; one cannot fly into flying. " -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The most perfidious way of harming a cause consists of defending it deliberately with faulty arguments." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"And once you are awake, you shall remain awake eternally. " -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Is life not a thousand times too short for us to bore ourselves?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Madness is something rare in individuals — but in groups, parties, peoples, and ages, it is the rule." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Everything the State says is a lie, and everything it has it has stolen." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One must be a sea, to receive a polluted stream without becoming impure." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Talking much about oneself can also be a means to conceal oneself. " -Friedrich Nietzsche
"the voice of beauty speaks softly; it creeps only into the most fully awakened souls" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"...throw roses into the abyss and say: 'here is my thanks to the monster who didn't succeed in swallowing me alive." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Distrust all in whom the impulse to punish is powerful." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"My solitude doesn't depend on the presence or absence of people; on the contrary, I hate who steals my solitude without, in exchange, offering me true company." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One must give value to their existence by behaving as if ones very existence were a work of art." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"If you know the why, you can live any how." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is my ambition to say in ten sentences what others say in a whole book." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"But it is the same with man as with the tree. The more he seeks to rise into the height and light, the more vigorously do his roots struggle earthword, downword, into the dark, the deep - into evil." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Man is something that shall be overcome. Man is a rope, tied between beast and overman — a rope over an abyss. What is great in man is that he is a bridge and not an end." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"True, we love life, not because we are used to living, but because we are used to loving. There is always some madness in love, but there is also always some reason in madness." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Whenever I climb I am followed by a dog called 'Ego'." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I assess the power of a will by how much resistance, pain, torture it endures and knows how to turn to its advantage" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Remorse.-- Never yield to remorse, but at once tell yourself: remorse would simply mean adding to the first act of stupidity a second." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"He who fights with monsters should look to it that he himself does not become a monster . . . when you gaze long into the abyss the abyss also gazes into you" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Convictions are more dangerous foes of truth than lies." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"For art to exist, for any sort of aesthetic activity or perception to exist, a certain physiological precondition is indispensable: intoxication." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To those human beings who are of any concern to me I wish suffering, desolation, sickness, ill-treatment, indignities—I wish that they should not remain unfamiliar with profound self-contempt, the torture of self-mistrust, the wretchedness of the vanquished: I have no pity for them, because I wish them the only thing that can prove today whether one is worth anything or not—that one endures." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Love is a state in which a man sees things most decidedly as they are not." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One must learn to love.— This is what happens to us in music: first one has to learn to hear a figure and melody at all, to detect and distinguish it, to isolate it and delimit it as a separate life; then it requires some exertion and good will to tolerate it in spite of its strangeness, to be patient with its appearance and expression, and kindhearted about its oddity:—finally there comes a moment when we are used to it, when we wait for it, when we sense that we should miss it if it were missing: and now it continues to compel and enchant us relentlessly until we have become its humble and enraptured lovers who desire nothing better from the world than it and only it.— But that is what happens to us not only in music: that is how we have learned to love all things that we now love. In the end we are always rewarded for our good will, our patience, fairmindedness, and gentleness with what is strange; gradually, it sheds its veil and turns out to be a new and indescribable beauty:—that is its thanks for our hospitality. Even those who love themselves will have learned it in this way: for there is no other way. Love, too, has to be learned." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Of all evil I deem you capable: Therefore I want good from you. Verily, I have often laughed at the weaklings who thought themselves good because they had no claws." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There is an innocence in admiration: it occurs in one who has not yet realized that they might one day be admired." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"No shepherd and one herd! Everybody wants the same, everybody is the same: whoever feels different goes voluntarily into a madhouse." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Nothing on earth consumes a man more quickly than the passion of resentment." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There are no eternal facts, as there are no absolute truths. " -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The worst readers are those who behave like plundering troops: they take away a few things they can use, dirty and confound the remainder, and revile the whole." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The strength of a person's spirit would then be measured by how much 'truth' he could tolerate, or more precisely, to what extent he needs to have it diluted, disguised, sweetened, muted, falsified." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"He who climbs upon the highest mountains laughs at all tragedies, real or imaginary." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"At bottom every man knows well enough that he is a unique being, only once on this earth; and by no extraordinary chance will such a marvelously picturesque piece of diversity in unity as he is, ever be put together a second time." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What is the seal of liberation? Not to be ashamed in front of oneself." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"My dear friend, what is this our life? A boat that swims in the sea, and all one knows for certain about it is that one day it will capsize. Here we are, two good old boats that have been faithful neighbors, and above all your hand has done its best to keep me from ""capsizing""! Let us then continue our voyage—each for the other's sake, for a long time yet, a long time! We should miss each other so much! Tolerably calm seas and good winds and above all sun—what I wish for myself, I wish for you, too, and am sorry that my gratitude can find expression only in such a wish and has no influence at all on wind or weather!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Man is a rope stretched between the animal and the Superman--a rope over an abyss. A dangerous crossing, a dangerous wayfaring, a dangerous looking-back, a dangerous trembling and halting. What is great in man is that he is a bridge and not a goal: what is lovable in man is that he is an OVER-GOING and a DOWN-GOING. I love those that know not how to live except as down-goers, for they are the over-goers. I love the great despisers, because they are the great adorers, and arrows of longing for the other shore. I love those who do not first seek a reason beyond the stars for going down and being sacrifices, but sacrifice themselves to the earth, that the earth of the Superman may hereafter arrive. I love him who lives in order to know, and seeks to know in order that the Superman may hereafter live. Thus seeks he his own down-going. I love him who labors and invents, that he may build the house for the Superman, and prepare for him earth, animal, and plant: for thus seeks he his own down-going. I love him who loves his virtue: for virtue is the will to down-going, and an arrow of longing. I love him who reserves no share of spirit for himself, but wants to be wholly the spirit of his virtue: thus walks he as spirit over the bridge. I love him who makes his virtue his inclination and destiny: thus, for the sake of his virtue, he is willing to live on, or live no more. I love him who desires not too many virtues. One virtue is more of a virtue than two, because it is more of a knot for one's destiny to cling to. I love him whose soul is lavish, who wants no thanks and does not give back: for he always bestows, and desires not to keep for himself. I love him who is ashamed when the dice fall in his favor, and who then asks: ""Am I a dishonest player?""--for he is willing to succumb. I love him who scatters golden words in advance of his deeds, and always does more than he promises: for he seeks his own down-going. I love him who justifies the future ones, and redeems the past ones: for he is willing to succumb through the present ones. I love him who chastens his God, because he loves his God: for he must succumb through the wrath of his God. I love him whose soul is deep even in the wounding, and may succumb through a small matter: thus goes he willingly over the bridge. I love him whose soul is so overfull that he forgets himself, and all things that are in him: thus all things become his down-going. I love him who is of a free spirit and a free heart: thus is his head only the bowels of his heart; his heart, however, causes his down-going. I love all who are like heavy drops falling one by one out of the dark cloud that lowers over man: they herald the coming of the lightning, and succumb as heralds. Lo, I am a herald of the lightning, and a heavy drop out of the cloud: the lightning, however, is the SUPERMAN.--" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The end of a melody is not its goal: but nonetheless, had the melody not reached its end it would not have reached its goal either. A parable." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I want to learn more and more to see as beautiful what is necessary in things; then I shall be one of those who make things beautiful. Amor fati: let that be my love henceforth! I do not want to wage war against what is ugly. I do not want to accuse; I do not even want to accuse those who accuse. Looking away shall be my only negation. And all in all and on the whole: some day I wish to be only a Yes-sayer." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When you stare into the abyss the abyss stares back at you." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One must pay dearly for immortality; one has to die several times while still alive." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is the business of the very few to be independent; it is a privilege of the strong. And whoever attempts it, even with the best right, but without being OBLIGED to do so, proves that he is probably not only strong, but also daring beyond measure. He enters into a labyrinth, he multiplies a thousandfold the dangers which life in itself already brings with it; not the least of which is that no one can see how and where he loses his way, becomes isolated, and is torn piecemeal by some minotaur of conscience. Supposing such a one comes to grief, it is so far from the comprehension of men that they neither feel it, nor sympathize with it. And he cannot any longer go back! He cannot even go back again to the sympathy of men!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The irrationality of a thing is no argument against its existence, rather a condition of it." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Be careful when you cast out your demons that you don't throw away the best of yourself." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I know my fate. One day my name will be associated with the memory of something tremendous — a crisis without equal on earth, the most profound collision of conscience, a decision that was conjured up against everything that had been believed, demanded, hallowed so far. I am no man, I am dynamite." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"All great things must first wear terrifying and monstrous masks in order to inscribe themselves on the hearts of humanity." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One must not let oneself be misled: they say 'Judge not!' but they send to Hell everything that stands in their way." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Two great European narcotics, alcohol and Christianity." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The author must keep his mouth shut when his work starts to speak." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Live dangerously." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One loves ultimately one's desires, not the thing desired." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Love is blind. Friendship closes its eyes." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Only sick music makes money today." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I am one thing, my writings are another." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The most spiritual men, as the strongest, find their happiness where others would find their destruction: in the labyrinth, in hardness against themselves and others, in experiments. Their joy is self-conquest: asceticism becomes in them nature, need, and instinct. Difficult tasks are a privilege to them; to play with burdens that crush others, a recreation. Knowledge–a form of asceticism. They are the most venerable kind of man: that does not preclude their being the most cheerful and the kindliest." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I obviously do everything to be ""hard to understand"" myself" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The earth has a skin and that skin has diseases; one of its diseases is called man." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"They call you heartless; but you have a heart and I love you for being ashamed to show it." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In Christianity neither morality nor religion come into contact with reality at any point." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The heaviest burden: 'What, if some day or night, a demon were to steal after you into your loneliest loneliness and say to you: ‘This life, as you now live it and have lived it, you will have to live once more and innumerable times more; and there will be nothing new in it, but every pain and every joy and every thought and sigh… must return to you—all in the same succession and sequence—even this spider and this moonlight between the trees and even this moment and I myself. The eternal hourglass of existence is turned over again and again—and you with it, speck of dust!' Would you not throw yourself down and gnash your teeth and curse the demon who spoke thus? Or have you once experienced a tremendous moment when you would have answered him: ‘You are a god, and never have I heard anything more divine!' If this thought were to gain possession of you, it would change you as you are, or perhaps crush you. The question in each and every thing, 'do you want this once more and innumerable times more?' would lie upon your actions as the greatest weight. Or how well disposed would you have to become to yourself and to life to crave nothing more fervently than this ultimate eternal confirmation and seal?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What is the truth, but a lie agreed upon." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The spiritualization of sensuality is called love: it is a great triumph over Christianity." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Without forgetting it is quite impossible to live at all." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The text has disappeared under the interpretation." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A subject for a great poet would be God's boredom after the seventh day of creation." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"He who cannot put his thoughts on ice should not enter into the heat of dispute." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Of all that is written, I love only what a person hath written with his blood. Write with blood, and thou wilt find that blood is spirit.It is no easy task to understand unfamiliar blood; I hate the reading idlers.He who knoweth the reader, doeth nothing more for the reader. Another century of readers--and spirit itself will stink.Every one being allowed to learn to read, ruineth in the long run not only writing but also thinking.Once spirit was God, then it became man, and now it even becometh populace.He that writeth in blood and proverbs doth not want to be read, but learnt by heart.In the mountains the shortest way is from peak to peak, but for that route thou must have long legs. Proverbs should be peaks, and those spoken to should be big and tall.The atmosphere rare and pure, danger near and the spirit full of a joyful wickedness: thus are things well matched.I want to have goblins about me, for I am courageous. The courage which scareth away ghosts, createth for itself goblins--it wanteth to laugh." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Man muss noch Chaos in sich haben, um einen tanzenden Stern gebären zu können. (You must have chaos within you to give birth to a dancing star.)" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I hate who steals my solitude, without really offer me in exchange company." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To learn to see- to accustom the eye to calmness, to patience, and to allow things to come up to it; to defer judgment, and to acquire the habit of approaching and grasping an individual case from all sides. This is the first preparatory schooling of intellectuality. One must not respond immediately to a stimulus; one must acquire a command of the obstructing and isolating instincts." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"You look up when you wish to be exalted. And I look down because I am exalted." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Poets are shameless with their experiences: they exploit them." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"As long as you still experience the stars as something ""above you"", you lack the eye of knowledge." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I change too quickly: my today refutes my yesterday. When I ascend I often jump over steps, and no step forgives me that." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The real world is much smaller than the imaginary" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A thought comes when it will, not when I will." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Love, too, has to be learned." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"You desire to LIVE ""according to Nature""? Oh, you noble Stoics, what fraud of words! Imagine to yourselves a being like Nature, boundlessly extravagant, boundlessly indifferent, without purpose or consideration, without pity or justice, at once fruitful and barren and uncertain: imagine to yourselves INDIFFERENCE as a power—how COULD you live in accordance with such indifference? To live—is not that just endeavouring to be otherwise than this Nature? Is not living valuing, preferring, being unjust, being limited, endeavouring to be different? And granted that your imperative, ""living according to Nature,"" means actually the same as ""living according to life""—how could you do DIFFERENTLY? Why should you make a principle out of what you yourselves are, and must be? In reality, however, it is quite otherwise with you: while you pretend to read with rapture the canon of your law in Nature, you want something quite the contrary, you extraordinary stage-players and self-deluders! In your pride you wish to dictate your morals and ideals to Nature, to Nature herself, and to incorporate them therein; you insist that it shall be Nature ""according to the Stoa,"" and would like everything to be made after your own image, as a vast, eternal glorification and generalism of Stoicism! With all your love for truth, you have forced yourselves so long, so persistently, and with such hypnotic rigidity to see Nature FALSELY, that is to say, Stoically, that you are no longer able to see it otherwise—and to crown all, some unfathomable superciliousness gives you the Bedlamite hope that BECAUSE you are able to tyrannize over yourselves—Stoicism is self-tyranny—Nature will also allow herself to be tyrannized over: is not the Stoic a PART of Nature?... But this is an old and everlasting story: what happened in old times with the Stoics still happens today, as soon as ever a philosophy begins to believe in itself. It always creates the world in its own image; it cannot do otherwise; philosophy is this tyrannical impulse itself, the most spiritual Will to Power, the will to ""creation of the world,"" the will to the causa prima." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The life of the enemy . Whoever lives for the sake of combating an enemy has an interest in the enemy's staying alive." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"You say 'I' and you are proud of this word. But greater than this- although you will not believe in it - is your body and its great intelligence, which does not say 'I' but performs 'I'." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The Christian resolution to find the world ugly and bad has made the world ugly and bad." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There is an old illusion. It is called good and evil." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"You know these things as thoughts, but your thoughts are not your experiences, they are an echo and after-effect of your experiences: as when your room trembles when a carriage goes past. I however am sitting in the carriage, and often I am the carriage itself.Ina man who thinks like this, the dichotomy between thinking and feeling, intellect and passion, has really disappeared. He feels his thoughts. He can fall in love with an idea. An idea can make him ill." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is nobler to declare oneself wrong than to insist on being right --especially when one is right." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is impossible to suffer without making someone pay for it; every complaint already contains revenge. " -Friedrich Nietzsche
"If a man has character, he has also his typical experience, which always recurs." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is not when truth is dirty, but when it is shallow, that the lover of knowledge is reluctant to step into its waters." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"For believe me! — the secret for harvesting from existence the greatest fruitfulness and the greatest enjoyment is: to live dangerously! Build your cities on the slopes of Vesuvius! Send your ships into uncharted seas! Live at war with your peers and yourselves! Be robbers and conquerors as long as you cannot be rulers and possessors, you seekers of knowledge! Soon the age will be past when you could be content to live hidden in forests like shy deer! At long last the search for knowledge will reach out for its due: — it will want to rule and possess, and you with it!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"He who fights with monsters might take care lest he thereby become a monster. And if you gaze for long into an abyss, the abyss gazes also into you." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Objection, evasion, joyous distrust, and love of irony are signs of health; everything absolute belongs to pathology." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A politician divides mankind into two classes: tools and enemies." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Of all that is written I love only what a man has written in his own blood." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Everyone who has ever built anywhere a new heaven first found the power thereto in his own hell." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The real man wants two different things: danger and play. Therefore he wants woman, as the most dangerous plaything." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Truths are illlusions which we have forgotten are illusions." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"And so, onwards... along a path of wisdom, with a hearty tread, a hearty confidence.. however you may be, be your own source of experience. Throw off your discontent about your nature. Forgive yourself your own self. You have it in your power to merge everything you have lived through- false starts, errors, delusions, passions, your loves and your hopes- into your goal, with nothing left over." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"He who obeys, does not listen to himself!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Plato was a bore." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Love brings to light a lover's noble and hidden qualities-his rare and exceptional traits: it is thus liable to be deceptive of his normal qualities." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Most people are far too much occupied with themselves to be malicious." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The desire to annoy no one, to harm no one, can equally well be the sign of a just as of an anxious disposition." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I am too inquisitive, too skeptical, too arrogant, to let myself be satisfied with an obvious and crass solution of things. God is such an obvious and crass solution; a solution which is a sheer indelicacy to us thinkers - at bottom He is really nothing but a coarse commandment against us: ye shall not think! " -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I am not upset that you lied to me, I am upset that from now on I cannot believe you." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Blessed are the forgetful; for they get over their stupidities, too." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Every true faith is infallible. It performs what the believing person hopes to find in it. But it does not offer the least support for the establishing of an objective truth. Here the ways of men divide. If you want to achieve peace of mind and happiness, have faith. If you want to be a disciple of truth, then search." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Many are stubborn in pursuit of the path they have chosen. Few in pursuit of the goal." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"You say, it's dark. And in truth, I did place a cloud before your sun. But do you not see how the edges of the cloud are already glowing and turning light." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Knowledge kills action; action requires the veils of illusion." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Those who know that they are profound strive for clarity. Those who would like to seem profound to the crowd strive for obscurity. For the crowd believes that if it cannot see to the bottom of something it must be profound. It is so timid and dislikes going into the water." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"نحن نحب الحياة، لا لأننا تعودنا على الحياة، بل لأننا تعودنا على الحب" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The vanity of others runs counter to our taste only when it runs counter to our vanity." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Freedom is the will to be responsible for ourselves." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We do not place especial value on the possession of a virtue until we notice its total absence in our opponent." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"If we train our conscience, it kisses us while it hurts" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Marriage as a long conversation. - When marrying you should ask yourself this question: do you believe you are going to enjoy talking with this woman into your old age? Everything else in a marriage is transitory, but most of the time that you're together will be devoted to conversation." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Dancing in all its forms cannot be excluded from the curriculum of all noble education; dancing with the feet, with ideas, with words, and, need I add that one must also be able to dance with the pen?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There will always be rocks in the road ahead of us. They will be stumbling blocks or stepping stones; it all depends on how you use them." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The world is beautiful, but has a disease called man." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"My formula for greatness in a human being is amor fati: that one wants nothing to be different, not forward, not backward, not in all eternity. Not merely bear what is necessary, still less conceal it—all idealism is mendaciousness in the face of what is necessary—but love it" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The most spiritual human beings, assuming they are the most courageous, also experience by far the most painful tragedies: but it is precisely for this reason that they honor life, because it brings against them its most formidable weapons." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There is no such thing as moral phenomena, but only a moral interpretation of phenomena" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A joke is an epigram on the death of a feeling." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Giving style' to one's character - a great and rare art! It is exercised by those who see all the strengths and weaknesses of their own natures and then comprehend them in an artistic plan until everything appears as art and reason and even weakness delights the eye." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In the end things must be as they are and have always been--the great things remain for the great, the abysses for the profound, the delicacies and thrills for the refined, and, to sum up shortly, everything rare for the rare." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I have learned to walk: since then I have run. I have learned to fly: since then I do not have to be pushed in order to move.Now I am nimble, now I fly, now I see myself under myself, now a god dances within me." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"He who fights too long against dragons becomes a dragon himself; and if you gaze too long into the abyss, the abyss will gaze into you." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is a self-deception of philosophers and moralists to imagine that they escape decadence by opposing it. That is beyond their will; and, however little they acknowledge it, one later discovers that they were among the most powerful promoters of decadence." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"He who possesseth little is so much the less possessed. Blessed be moderate poverty!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Sensuality often hastens the ""Growth of Love"" so much that the roots remain weak and are easily torn up." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Admiration for a quality or an art can be so strong that it deters us from striving to possess it." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"He who has attained the freedom of reason to any extent cannot, for a long time, regard himself otherwise than as a wanderer on the face of the earth - and not even as a traveler towards a final goal, for there is no such thing. But he certainly wants to observe and keep his eyes open to whatever actually happens in the world; therefore he cannot attach his heart too firmly to anything individual; he must have in himself something wandering that takes pleasure in change and transitoriness." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The slow arrow of beauty. The most noble kind of beauty is that which does not carry us away suddenly, whose attacks are not violent or intoxicating (this kind easily awakens disgust), but rather the kind of beauty which infiltrates slowly, which we carry along with us almost unnoticed, and meet up with again in dreams; finally, after it has for a long time lain modestly in our heart, it takes complete possession of us, filling our eyes with tears, our hearts with longing. What do we long for when we see beauty? To be beautiful. We think much happiness must be connected with it. But that is an error." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Family love is messy, clinging, and of an annoying and repetitive pattern, like bad wallpaper." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There is a certain right by which we many deprive a man of life, but none by which we may deprive him of death; this is mere cruelty." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"From which stars have we fallen to meet each other here?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"هناك دوما شيء من الجنون في الحب. لكن هناك دوما شيء من العقل في الجنون أيضا" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I fear you close by; I love you far away." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Cynicism is the only form in which base souls approach honesty." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The overman...Who has organized the chaos of his passions, given style to his character, and become creative. Aware of life's terrors, he affirms life without resentment. " -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What then is truth? A movable host of metaphors, metonymies, and anthropomorphisms: in short, a sum of human relations which have been poetically and rhetorically intensified, transferred, and embellished, and which, after long usage, seem to a people to be fixed, canonical, and binding. Truths are illusions which we have forgotten are illusions — they are metaphors that have become worn out and have been drained of sensuous force." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The pure soul is a pure lie." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"He who cannot obey himself will be commanded. That is the nature of living creatures." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Pardon me, my friends, I have ventured to paint my happiness on the wall." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What if a demon were to creep after you one night, in your loneliest loneliness, and say, 'This life which you live must be lived by you once again and innumerable times more; and every pain and joy and thought and sigh must come again to you, all in the same sequence. The eternal hourglass will again and again be turned and you with it, dust of the dust!' Would you throw yourself down and gnash your teeth and curse that demon? Or would you answer, 'Never have I heard anything more divine'? " -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A moral system valid for all is basically immoral." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I would only believe in a god who could dance." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Only great pain, the long, slow pain that takes its time... compels us to descend to our ultimate depths... I doubt that such pain makes us ""better""; but I know it makes us more profound... In the end, lest what is most important remain unsaid: from such abysses, from such severe sickness, one returns newborn, having shed one's skin... with merrier senses, with a second dangerous innocence in joy, more childlike and yet a hundred times subtler than one has ever been before." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One has to take a somewhat bold and dangerous line with this existence: especially as, whatever happens, we are bound to lose it." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A bad conscience is easier to cope with than a bad reputation." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Morality is the herd-instinct in the individual." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One is fruitful only at the cost of being rich in contradictions." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Physiologists should think before putting down the instinct of self-preservation as the cardinal instinct of an organic being. A living thing seeks above all to discharge its strength--life itself is will to power; self-preservation is only one of the indirect and most frequent results." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In music the passions enjoy themselves." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I hate you most because you attract, but are not strong enough to pull me to you." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Whoever, at any time, has undertaken to build a new heaven has found the strength for it in his own hell..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Your only problem, perhaps, is that you scream without letting yourself cry." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In the mountains of truth, you never climb in vain." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Untroubled, scornful, outrageous - that is how wisdom wants us to be: she is a woman and never loves anyone but a warrior." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I love him who seeks to create over and beyond himself and thus perishes." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There is a false saying: 'How can someone who can't save himself save others?' Supposing I have the key to your chains, why should your lock and my lock be the same?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Was that life? Well then, once more!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What destroys a man more quickly than to work, think and feel without inner necessity, without any deep personal desire, without pleasure - as a mere automaton of duty?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Some men are born posthumously." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Battle not with monsters, lest ye become a monster, and if you gaze into the abyss, the abyss gazes also into you." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"سيأتي زمن الإنسان الأكثر حقارة، ذلك الذي لم يعد قادرا على احتقار نفسه" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"And do you know what 'the world' is to me? Shall I show it to you in my mirror? This world: a monster of energy, without beginning, without end; a firm, iron magnitude of force that does not grow bigger or smaller, that does not expend itself but only transforms itself; as a whole, of unalterable size, a household without expenses or losses, but likewise without increase or income; enclosed by 'nothingness' as by a boundary; not something blurry or wasted, not something endlessly extended, but set in a definite space as a definite force, and not a space that might be 'empty' here or there, but rather as force throughout, as a play of forces and waves of forces, at the same time one and many, increasing here and at the same time decreasing there; a sea of forces flowing and rushing together, eternally changing, eternally flooding back, with tremendous years of recurrence, with an ebb and a flood of its forms; out of the simplest forms striving toward the most complex, out of the stillest, most rigid, coldest forms striving toward the hottest, most turbulent, most self-contradictory, and then again returning home to the simple out of this abundance, out of the play of contradictions back to the joy of concord, still affirming itself in this uniformity of its courses and its years, blessing itself as that which must return eternally, as a becoming that knows no satiety, no disgust, no weariness: this, my Dionysian world of the eternally self- creating, the eternally self-destroying, this mystery world of the twofold voluptuous delight, my 'beyond good and evil,' without goal, unless the joy of the circle is itself a goal; without will, unless a ring feels good will toward itself— do you want a name for this world? A solution for all of its riddles? A light for you, too, you best-concealed, strongest, most intrepid, most midnightly men?— This world is the will to power—and nothing besides! And you yourselves are also this will to power—and nothing besides!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"No artist tolerates reality." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"This is the hardest of all: to close the open hand out of love, and keep modest as a giver." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Arrogance on the part of the meritorious is even more offensive to us than the arrogance of those without merit: for merit itself is offensive." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Blessed are the sleepy ones: for they shall soon nod off." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Convictions are prisons." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I say unto you: one must still have chaos in oneself to be able to give birth to a dancing star. I say unto you: you still have chaos in yourselves.***Where is the lightning to lick you with its tongue. Where is the frenzy with which you should be inoculated. Behold. I give you the Ubermensch. He is this lightning. He is this frenzy." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The essence of all beautiful art, all great art, is gratitude. " -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To recognize untruth as a condition of life--that certainly means resisting accustomed value feelings in a dangerous way; and a philosophy that risks this would by that token alone place itself beyond good and evil." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In loneliness, the lonely one eats himself; in a crowd, the many eat him. Now choose." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I tell you: one must still have chaos in one, to give birth to a dancing star. I tell you: you have still chaos in you." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In the end we are always rewarded for our good will, our patience, fair-mindedness, and gentleness with what is strange." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The maturity of man—that means, to have reacquired the seriousness that one had as a child at play" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Consider the cattle, grazing as they pass you by. They do not know what is meant by yesterday or today, they leap about, eat, rest, digest, leap about again, and so from morn till night and from day to day, fettered to the moment and its pleasure or displeasure, and thus neither melancholy nor bored. [...] A human being may well ask an animal: 'Why do you not speak to me of your happiness but only stand and gaze at me?' The animal would like to answer, and say, 'The reason is I always forget what I was going to say' - but then he forgot this answer too, and stayed silent." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Belief means not wanting to know what is true." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Wer mit Ungeheuern kämpft, mag zusehn, daß er nicht dabei zum Ungeheuer wird. Und wenn du lange in einen Abgrund blickst, blickt der Abgrund auch in dich hinein." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A strong and well-constituted man digests his experiences (deeds and misdeeds all included) just as he digests his meats, even when he has some tough morsels to swallow. " -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To find everything profound - that is an inconvenient trait. It makes one strain one's eyes all the time, and in the end one finds more than one might have wished." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Those you cannot teach to fly, teach to fall faster." -Friedrich Nietzsche
".— A person must have one or the other. Either a cheerful disposition by nature, or a disposition made cheerful by art and knowledge." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Many a man fails as an original thinker simply because his memory is too good." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"They're so cold, these scholars!May lightning strike their foodso that their mouths learn howto eat fire!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Success has always been a great liar" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"But thus do I counsel you, my friends: distrust all in whom the impulse to punish is powerful!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One sticks to an opinion because he prides himself on having come to it on his own, and another because he has taken great pains to learn it and is proud to have grasped it: and so both do so out of vanity." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Virtue is under certain circumstances merely an honorable form of stupidity: who could be ill-disposed toward it on that account? And this kind of virtue has not been outlived even today. A kind of sturdy peasant simplicity, which, however, is possible in all classes and can be encountered only with respect and a smile, believes even today that everything is in good hands, namely in the ""hands of God""; and when it maintains this proportion with the same modest certainty as it would that two and two make four, we others certainly refrain from contradicting. Why disturb THIS pure foolishness? Why darken it with our worries about man, people, goal, future? And even if we wanted to do it, we could not. They project their own honorable stupidity and goodness into the heart of things (the old God, deus myops, still lives among them!); we others — we read something else into the heart of things: our own enigmatic nature, our contradictions, our deeper, more painful, more mistrustful wisdom." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Memory says, 'I did that.' Pride replies, 'I could not have done that.' Eventually, memory yields." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The secret of realizing the greatest fruitfulness and the greatest enjoyment of existence is: to live dangerously! Build your cities on the slopes of Vesuvius! Send your ships out into uncharted seas! Live in conflict with your equals and with yourselves! Be robbers and ravagers as soon as you ca not be rulers and owners, you men of knowledge! The time will soon past when you could be content to live concealed int he woods like timid deer!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"if you are unwilling to endure your own suffering even for an hour, and continually forestall all possible misfortune, if you regard as deserving of annihilation, any suffering and pain generally as evil, as detestable, and as blots on existence, well, you have then, besides your religion of compassion, yet another religion in your heart (and this is perhaps the mother of the former)-the religion of smug ease. Ah, how little you know of the happiness of man, you comfortable and good-natured ones! For happiness and misfortune are brother and sister, and twins, who grow tall together, or, as with you, remain small together!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The tree that would grow to heaven must send its roots to hell." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Glance into the world just as though time were gone: and everything crooked will become straight to you." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I notice that Autumn is more the season of the soul than of nature." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I mistrust all systematizers and avoid them. the will to a system is a lack of integrity." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I have forgotten my umbrella. " -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Close beside my knowledge lies my black ignorance." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The higher man is distinguished from the lower by his fearlessness and his readiness to challenge misfortune." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"one does not only wish to be understood when one writes; one wishes just as surely not to be understood." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Living in a constant chase after gain compels people to expend their spirit to the point of exhaustion in continual pretense and overreaching and anticipating other. Virtue has come to consist of doing something in less time that someone else. Hours in which honesty is permitted have become rare, and when they arrive one is tired and does not only want to ""let oneself go"" but actually wishes to stretch out as long and wide and ungainly as one happens to be... Soon we may well reach the point where people can no longer give in to the desire for a vita contemplativa (that is, taking a walk with ideas and friends) without self-contempt and a bad conscience." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Christianity gave Eros poison to drink; he did not die of it, certainly, but degenerated to Vice." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Man's maturity: to have regained the seriousness that he had as a child at play." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What was silent in the father speaks in the son, and often I found in the son the unveiled secret of the father." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Every attainment, every step forward in knowledge, follows from courage, from hardness against oneself, from cleanliness in relation to oneself." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When we have to change our mind about a person, we hold the inconvenience he causes us very much against him." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What is happening to me happens to all fruits that grow ripe. It is the honey in my veins that makes my blood thicker, and my soul quieter." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"No one can build you the bridge on which you, and only you, must cross the river of life. There may be countless trails and bridges and demigods who would gladly carry you across; but only at the price of pawning and forgoing yourself. There is one path in the world that none can walk but you. Where does it lead? Don't ask, walk!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I am no man, I am dynamite." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"How much truth can a spirit bear, how much truth can a spirit dare? ... that became for me more and more the real measure of value." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One should die proudly when it is no longer possible to live proudly." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"But I need solitude--which is to say, recovery, return to myself, the breath of a free, light, playful air." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"He who despises himself esteems himself as a self-despiser." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"صديقان منذ البدء نحن، يجمعنا الحزن والرعب والعمق، والشمس تجمعنا أيضًا. لا نتكلم إلى بعضنا لأننا نعرف الكثير الكثير، نتبادل الصمت، وما نعرفه نتبادله ابتسامات" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Woman was God's second mistake. " -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To live alone one must be either a beast or a god, says Aristotle. Leaving out the third case: one must be both - a philosopher." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The Great Man... is colder, harder, less hesitating, and without fear of 'opinion'; he lacks the virtues that accompany respect and 'respectability,' and altogether everything that is the 'virtue of the herd.' If he cannot lead, he goes alone... He knows he is incommunicable: he finds it tasteless to be familiar... When not speaking to himself, he wears a mask. There is a solitude within him that is inaccessible to praise or blame." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I love those who do not know how to live, except by going under, for they are those who cross over." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Whoever thought that he had understood something of me had merely construed something out of me, after his own image." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"And if a friend does you wrong, then say: ""I forgive you what you have done to me; that you have done it to YOURSELF, however--how could I forgive that!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Be careful when you fight the monsters, lest you become one.كن حريصاً وانت تصارع الوحوش حتى لاتصبح واحداً منهم" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Happiness is the feeling that power increases - that resistance is being overcome." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There are terrible people who, instead of solving a problem, bungle it and make it more difficult for all who come after. Whoever can't hit the nail on the head should, please, not hit at all." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"At a certain place in Beethoven's Ninth Symphony, for example, he might feel that he is floating above the earth in a starry dome, with the dream of immortality in his heart; all the stars seem to glimmer around him, and the earth seems to sink ever deeper downwards." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We labour at our daily work more ardently and thoughtlessly than is necessary to sustain our life because it is even more necessary not to have leisure to stop and think. Haste is universal because everyone is in flight from himself." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"But thus I counsel you, my friends: Mistrust all in whom the impulse to punish is powerful. They are people of a low sort and stock; the hangmen and the bloodhound look out of their faces. Mistrust all who talk much of their justice! Verily, their souls lack more than honey. And when they call themselves the good and the just, do not forget that they would be pharisees, if only they had—power." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Against boredom even gods struggle in vain." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Words are but symbols for the relations of things to one another and to us; nowhere do they touch upon absolute truth.... Through words and concepts we shall never reach beyond the wall off relations, to some sort of fabulous primal ground of things." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"My formula for human greatness is amor fati: that one wants nothing to be different, not in the future, not in the past, not for all eternity. Not only to endure what is necessary, still less to conceal it — all idealism is falseness in the face of necessity — , but to love it..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Anyone who has declared someone else to be an idiot, a bad apple, is annoyed when it turns out in the end that he isn't. " -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In reality, hope is the worst of all evils, because it prolongs man's torments." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The noble soul reveres itself" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I want to learn more and more to see as beautiful what is necessary in things:—then I shall be one of those who make things beautiful. Amor fati: let that be my love from henceforth!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Even the most beautiful scenery is no longer assured of our love after we have lived in it for three months, and some distant coast attracts our avarice: possessions are generally diminished by possession." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"إن الأحداث العظام ليست لحظاتنا الأكثر صخبا، بل تلك الأكثر سكونا" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It has gradually become clear to me what every great philosophy up till now has consisted of – namely, the confession of its originator, and a species of involuntary and unconscious autobiography; and moreover that the moral (or immoral) purpose in every philosophy has constituted the true vital germ out of which the entire plant has always grown." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"You tell me: 'Life is hard to bear.' But if it were otherwise why should you have your pride in the morning and your resignation in the evening?Life is hard to bear: but do not pretend to be so tender! We are all of us pretty fine asses and asseses of burden!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To see others suffer does one good, to make others suffer even more: this is a hard saying but an ancient, mighty, human, all-too-human principle [....] Without cruelty there is no festival." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When one has not had a good father, one must create one." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Here the ways of men divide. If you wish to strive for peace of soul and happiness, then believe; if you wish to be a disciple of truth, then inquire." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Every profound spirit needs a mask: even more, around every profound spirit a mask is continually growing." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The desire for a strong faith is not the proof of a strong faith, rather the opposite. If one has it one may permit oneself the beautiful luxury of skepticism: one is secure enough, fixed enough for it." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The mother of excess is not joy but joylessness." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"No one dies of fatal truths nowadays: there are too many antidotes." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In this sense the Dionysian man resembles Hamlet: both have once looked truly into the essence of things, they have , and nausea inhibits action; for their action could not change anything in the eternal nature of things; they feel it to be ridiculous or humiliating that they should be asked to set right a world that is out of joint. Knowledge kills action; action requires the veils of illusion: that is the doctrine of Hamlet, not that cheap wisdom of Jack the Dreamer who reflects too much and, as it were, from an excess of possibilities does not get around to action. Not reflection, no--true knowledge, an insight into the horrible truth, outweighs any motive for action, both in Hamlet and in the Dionysian man.Now no comfort avails any more; longing transcends a world after death, even the gods; existence is negated along with its glittering reflection in the gods or in an immortal beyond. Conscious of the truth he has once seen, man now sees everywhere only the horror or absurdity of existence; now he understands what is symbolic in Ophelia's fate; now he understands the wisdom of the sylvan god, Silenus: he is nauseated.Here, when the danger to his will is greatest,  approaches as a saving sorceress, expert at healing. She alone knows how to turn these nauseous thoughts about the horror or absurdity of existence into notions with which one can live: these are the  as the artistic taming of the horrible, and the  as the artistic discharge of the nausea of absurdity. The satyr chorus of the dithyramb is the saving deed of Greek art; faced with the intermediary world of these Dionysian companions, the feelings described here exhausted themselves." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Do not talk about giftedness, inborn talents! One can name great men of all kinds who were very little gifted. They acquired greatness, became 'geniuses' (as we put it), through qualities the lack of which no one who knew what they were would boast of: they all pos­sessed that seriousness of the efficient workman which first learns to con­struct the parts properly before it ventures to fashion a great whole; they allowed themselves time for it, because they took more pleasure in making the little, secondary things well than in the effect of a dazzling whole" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"As soon as a religion comes to dominate it has as its opponents all those who would have been its first disciples. " -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Socialism itself can hope to exist only for brief periods here and there, and then only through the exercise of the extremest terrorism. For this reason it is secretly preparing itself for rule through fear and is driving the word 'justice' into the heads of the half-educated masses like a nail so as to rob them of their reason… and to create in them a good conscience for the evil game they are to play." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"So long as men praise you, you can only be sure that you are not yet on your own true path but on someone else's." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"there they laugh: they do not understand me; I am not the mouth for these ears." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Whatever is done for love always occurs beyond good and evil." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Christianity was from the beginning, essentially and fundamentally, life's nausea and disgust with life, merely concealed behind, masked by, dressed up as, faith in ""another"" or ""better"" life." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"لا تحدق طويلاً في الهاوية حتى لا تلتفت اليك" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"if we possess a why of life we can put up with almost any how." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Man is the cruelest animal,"" says Zarathustra. ""When gazing at tragedies, bull-fights, crucifixations he hath hitherto felt happier than at any other time on Earth. And when he invented Hell...lo, Hell was his Heaven on Earth""; he could put up with suffering now, by contemplating the eternal punishment of his oppressors in the other world." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What then is truth? A mobile army of metaphors, metonyms, and anthropomorphisms—in short, a sum of human relations which have been enhanced, transposed, and embellished poetically and rhetorically, and which after long use seem firm, canonical, and obligatory to a people: truths are illusions about which one has forgotten that this is what they are; metaphors which are worn out and without sensuous power; coins which have lost their pictures and now matter only as metal, no longer as coins." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Love of one is a piece of barbarism: for it is practised at the expense of all others. Love of God likewise." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Oh great star! What would your happiness be if you did not have us to shine for?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I love the great despisers because they are the great adorers..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"My humanity is a constant self-overcoming." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"no one talks more passionately about his rights than he who in the depths of his soul doubts whether he has any" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The more abstract the truth you wish to teach, the more you need to seduce the senses to it." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The secret of reaping the greatest fruitfulness and the greatest enjoyment from life is to live dangerously." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"That for which we find words is something already dead in our hearts" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Because we have for millenia made moral, aesthetic, religious demands on the world, looked upon it with blind desire, passion or fear, and abandoned ourselves to the bad habits of illogical thinking, this world has gradually become so marvelously variegated, frightful, meaningful, soulful, it has acquired color - but we have been the colorists: it is the human intellect that has made appearances appear and transported its erroneous basic conceptions into things." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is not conflict of opinions that has made history so violent but conflict of belief in opinions, that is to say conflict of convictions." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The greatest cure for love is still that time honoured medicine - love returned." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Thus the man who is responsive to artistic stimuli reacts to the reality of dreams as does the philosopher to the reality of existence; he observes closely, and he enjoys his observation: for it is out of these images that he interprets life, out of these processes that he trains himself for life." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Everything goes, everything comes back; eternally rolls the wheel of being. Everything dies, everything blossoms again; eternally runs the year of being. Everything breaks, everything is joined anew; eternally the same House of Being is built. Everything parts, everything greets every other thing again; eternally the ring of being remains faithful to itself. In every Now, being begins; round every Here rolls the sphere There. The center is everywhere. Bent is the path of eternity." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Let old ones go. Dont be a memory-monger!Once you were young──now you are even younger." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Our faith in others betrays that we would rather have faith in ourselves. Our longing for a friend is our betrayer. And often with our love we want merely to overcome envy. And often we attack and make ourselves enemies, to conceal that we are vulnerable." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A state, is called the coldest of all cold monsters. Coldly lieth it also; and this lie creepeth from its mouth: ""I, the state, am the people.""It is a lie! Creators were they who created peoples, and hung a faith and a love over them: thus they served life.Destroyers, are they who lay snares for many, and call it the state: they hang a sword and a hundred cravings over them.Where there is still a people, there the state is not understood, but hated as the evil eye, and as sin against laws and customs." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Morality is neither rational nor absolute nor natural. World has known many moral systems, each of which advances claims universality; all moral systems are therefore particular, serving a specific purpose for their propagators or creators, and enforcing a certain regime that disciplines human beings for social life by narrowing our perspectives and limiting our horizons." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"He who speaks a bit of a foreign language has more delight in it than he who speaks it well; pleasure goes along with superficial knowledge." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Art is essentially the affirmation, the blessing, and the deification of existence." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Swallow your poison, for you need it badly." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Wanderer, who are you? I watch you go on your way, without scorn, without love, with impenetrable eyes - damp and downhearted, like a plumb line that returns unsatisfied from every depth back into the light (what was it looking for down there?), with a breast that does not sigh, with lips that hide their disgust, with a hand that only grips slowly: who are you? What have you done? Take a rest here, this spot is hospitable to everyone, - relax! And whoever you may be: what would you like now? What do you find relaxing? Just name it: I'll give you whatever I have! - ""Relaxing? Relaxing? How inquisitive you are! What are you saying! But please, give me - -"" What? What? Just say it! - ""Another mask! A second mask!"" ..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What is good? All that heightens the feeling of power, the will to power, power itself. What is bad? All that is born of weakness. What is happiness? The feeling that power is growing, that resistance is overcome." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Character is determined more by the lack of certain experiences than by those one has had." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"If you wish to strive for peace of soul and pleasure, then believe; if you wish to be a devotee of truth, then inquire." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"He who fights with monsters should be careful lest he thereby become a monster.And if thou gaze long into an abyss, the abyss will also gaze into thee." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Those who hear not the music think the dancers mad." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Have you ever said Yes to a single joy? O my friends, then you have said Yes too to  woe. All things are entangled, ensnared, enamored; if ever you wanted one thing twice, if ever you said, ""You please me, happiness! Abide, moment!"" then you wanted  back. All anew, all eternally, all entangled, ensnared, enamored--oh then you  the world. Eternal ones, love it eternally and evermore; and to woe too, you say: go, but return! ." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The wreckage of stars - I built a world from this wreckage." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"At times one remains faithful to a cause only because its opponents do not cease to be insipid." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Man, the bravest of animals, and the one most accustomed to suffering, does not repudiate suffering as such; he desires it, he even seeks it out, provided he is shown a meaning for it, a purpose of suffering. The meaninglessness of suffering, not suffering itself, was the curse that lay over mankind so far." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We are unknown to ourselves, we men of knowledge - and with good reason. We have never sought ourselves - how could it happen that we should ever find ourselves? It has rightly been said: ""Where your treasure is, there will your heart be also""; our treasure is where the beehives of our knowledge are." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The most common sort of lie is that by which a man deceives himself: the deception of others is a relatively rare offense." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"He who delights in solitude is either a wild beast or a god." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Let us face ourselves. We are Hyperboreans; we know very well how far off we live. 'Neither by land nor by sea will you find the way to the Hyperboreans'—Pindar already knew this about us. Beyond the north, ice, and death—our life, our happiness. We have discovered happiness, we know the way, we have found the exit out of the labyrinth of thousands of years. Who else has found it? Modern man perhaps? 'I have got lost; I am everything that has got lost,' sighs modern man. This modernity was our sickness: lazy peace, cowardly compromise, the whole virtuous uncleanliness of the modern Yes and No. … Rather live in the ice than among modern virtues and other south winds! We were intrepid enough, we spared neither ourselves nor others; but for a long time we did not know where to turn with our intrepidity. We became gloomy, we were called fatalists. Our fatum—abundance, tension, the damming of strength. We thirsted for lightning and deeds and were most remote from the happiness of the weakling, 'resignation.' In our atmosphere was a thunderstorm; the nature we are became dark—for we saw no way. Formula for our happiness: a Yes, a No, a straight line, a goal." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A man far oftener appears to have a decided character from persistently following his temperament than from persistently following his principles." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The best of all things is something entirely outside your grasp: not to be born, not to be, to be nothing. But the second best thing for you is to die soon." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Remain faithful to the earth, my brothers, with the power of your virtue. Let your gift-giving love and your knowledge serve the meaning of the earth. Thus I beg and beseech you. Do not let them fly away from earthly things and beat with their wings against eternal walls. Alas, there has always been so much virtue that has flown away. Lead back to the earth the virtue that flew away, as I do—back to the body, back to life, that it may give the earth a meaning, a human meaning." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"If we affirm one moment, we thus affirm not only ourselves but all existence. For nothing is self-sufficient, neither in us ourselves nor in things; and if our soul has trembled with happiness and sounded like a harp string just once, all eternity was needed to produce this one event - and in this single moment of affirmation all eternity was called good, redeemed, justified, and affirmed." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Star friendship.— We were friends and have become estranged. But this was right, and we do not want to conceal and obscure it from ourselves as if we had reason to feel ashamed. We are two ships each of which has its goal and course; our paths may cross and we may celebrate a feast together, as we did—and then the good ships rested so quietly in one harbor and one sunshine that it may have looked as if they had reached their goal and as if they had one goal. But then the almighty force of our tasks drove us apart again into different seas and sunny zones, and perhaps we shall never see one another again,—perhaps we shall meet again but fail to recognize each other: our exposure to different seas and suns has changed us! That we have to become estranged is the law above us: by the same token we should also become more venerable for each other! And thus the memory of our former friendship should become more sacred! There is probably a tremendous but invisible stellar orbit in which our very different ways and goals may be included as small parts of this path,—let us rise up to this thought! But our life is too short and our power of vision too small for us to be more than friends in the sense of this sublime possibility.— Let us then believe in our star friendship even if we should be compelled to be earth enemies." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"My formula for happiness: a Yes, a No, a straight line, a goal." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"...all that is rare is for the rare." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We ought to face our destiny with courage." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I overcame myself, the sufferer; I carried my own ashes to the mountains; I invented a brighter flame for myself." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Success has always been the greatest liar - and the ""work"" itself is a success; the great statesman, the conqueror, the discoverer is disguised by his creations, often beyond recognition; the ""work,"" whether of the artist or the philosopher, invents the man who has created it, who is supposed to have create it; ""great men,"" as they are venerated, are subsequent pieces of wretched minor fiction" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Your educators can only be your liberators." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"That for which we find words is something already dead in our hearts. There is always a kind of contempt in the act of speaking." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Forgetfulness is not just a vis inertiae, as superficial people believe, but is rather an active ability to suppress, positive in the strongest sense of the word, to which we owe the fact that what we simply live through, experience, take in, no more enters our consciousness during digestion (one could call it spiritual ingestion) than does the thousand-fold process which takes place with our physical consumption of food, our so-called ingestion. To shut the doors and windows of consciousness for a while; not to be bothered by the noise and battle which our underworld of serviceable organs work with and against each other;a little peace, a little tabula rasa of consciousness to make room for something new, above all for the nobler functions and functionaries, for ruling, predicting, predetermining (our organism runs along oligarchic lines, you see) - that, as I said, is the benefit of active forgetfulness, like a doorkeeper or guardian of mental order, rest and etiquette: from which can immediately see how there could be no happiness, cheerfulness, hope, pride, immediacy, without forgetfulness." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Christianity remains to this day the greatest misfortune of humanity." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"But in the loneliest desert happens the second metamorphosis: here the spirit becomes a lion; he will seize his freedom and be master in his own wilderness." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When you look into an abyss, the abyss also looks into you." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Though I may seem at times somewhat distant from you, through the gray mist of philology, I am never far, my thoughts always circle around you." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The great periods of our life occur when we gain the courage to rechristen what is bad about us as what is best." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Being human is a complicated gig. So give that ol' dark night of the soul a hug. Howl the eternal yes![N.B. this is obviously a humorous paraphrase]" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Well-meaning, helpful, good-natured attitudes of mind have not come to be honored on account of their usefulness, but because they are states of richer souls that are capable of bestowing and have their value in the feeling of the plenitude of life." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"God is dead, but considering the state the species man is in, there will perhaps be caves, for ages yet, in which his shadow will be shown." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Man does not strive for happiness; only the Englishman does that." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I and me are always too deeply in conversation: how could I endure it,if there were not a friend?The friend of the hermit is always the third one: the third one is the float which prevents the conversation of the two from sinking into the depth." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Every talent must unfold itself in fighting." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Are you a slave? Then you cannot be a friend. Are you a tyrant? Then you cannot have friends." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"My conception of freedom. — The value of a thing sometimes does not lie in that which one attains by it, but in what one pays for it — what it costs us. Liberal institutions cease to be liberal as soon as they are attained: later on, there are no worse and no more thorough injurers of freedom than liberal institutions." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Is man one of God's blunders, or is God one of man's blunders?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"it is only as an  that existence and the world are eternally ." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"My genius is in my nostrils." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Digressions, objections, delight in mockery, carefree mistrust are signs of health..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Under peaceful conditions a warlike man sets upon himself." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Which is it? Is man only a blunder of God? Or is God only a blunder of man?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I consist of body and soul - in the worlds of a child. And why shouldn't we speak like children? But the enlightened, the knowledgealbe would say: I am body through and through, nothing more; and the soul is just a word for something on the body." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To be incapable of taking one's enemies, one's accidents, even one's misdeeds seriously for very long—that is the sign of strong, full natures in whom there is an excess of the power to form, to mold, to recuperate and to forget (a good example of this in modem times is Mirabeau, who had no memory for insults and vile actions done him and was unable to forgive simply because he—forgot). Such a man shakes off with a  shrug many vermin that eat deep into others; here alone genuine 'love of one's enemies' is possible—supposing it to be possible at all on earth. How much reverence has a noble man for his enemies!—and such reverence is a bridge to love.—For he desires his enemy for himself, as his mark of distinction; he can endure no other enemy than one in whom there is nothing to despise and  to honor! In contrast to this, picture 'the enemy' as the man of  conceives him—and here precisely is his deed, his creation: he has conceived 'the evil enemy,'  and this in fact is his basic concept, from which he then evolves, as an afterthought and pendant, a 'good one'—himself!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"How much truth does a spirit endure, how much truth does it dare?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Morality is just a fiction used by the herd of inferior human beings to hold back the few superior men." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Good writers have two things in common: they prefer to be understood rather than admired; and they do not write for knowing and over-acute readers." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"For truth to tell, dancing in all its forms cannot be excluded from the curriculum of all noble education: dancing with the feet, with ideas, with words, and, need I add that one must also be able to dance with pen- that one must learn how to write" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"And to me also, who appreciate life, the butterflies, and soap-bubbles, and whatever is like them amongst us, seem most to enjoy happiness." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Worldly WisdomDo not stay in the field!Nor climb out of sight.The best view of the worldIs from a medium height." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Ten truths must you find during the day; otherwise will you seek truth during the night, and your soul will have been hungry." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The Thought of Death. It gives me a melancholy happiness to live in the midst of this confusion of streets, of necessities, of voices: how much enjoyment, impatience and desire, how much thirsty life and drunkenness of life comes to light here every moment! And yet it will soon be so still for all these shouting, lively, life- loving people! How everyone's shadow, his gloomy travelling companion stands behind him! It is always as in the last moment before the departure of an emigrant- ship: people have more than ever to say to one another, the hour presses, the ocean with its lonely silence waits impatiently behind all the noise-so greedy, so certain of its prey! And all, all, suppose that the past has been nothing, or a small matter, that the near future is everything: hence this haste, this crying, this self-deafening and self-overreaching! Everyone wants to be foremost in this future-and yet death and the stillness of death are the only things certain and common to all in this future! How strange that this sole thing that is certain and common to all, exercises almost no influence on men, and that they are the furthest from regarding themselves as the brotherhood of death! It makes me happy to see that men do not want to think at all of the idea of death! I would fain do something to make the idea of life to us to be more than friends in the sense of that sublime possibility. And so we will believe in our even a hundred times more worthy of their attention." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I go into solitude so as not to drink out of everybody's cistern. When I am among the many I live as the many do, and I do not think I really think. After a time it always seems as if they want to banish my self from myself and rob me of my soul." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The complete irresponsibility of man for his actions and his nature is the bitterest drop which he who understands must swallow." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"All truth is simple ... is that not doubly a lie?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Either one does not dream, or one does so interestingly. One should learn to spend one's waking life in the same way: not at all, or interestingly." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Pity is the most agreeable feeling among those who have little pride and no prospects of great conquests." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Every profound spirit needs a mask" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"… if you refuse to let your own suffering lie upon you for an hour and if you constantly try to prevent and forestall all possible stress way ahead of time; if you experience suffering and displeasure as evil, hateful, worthy of annihilation, and as a defect of existence, then it is clear that besides your religion of pity you also harbor another religion in your heart that is perhaps the mother of the religion of pity: the religion of comfortableness. How little you know of human happiness, you comfortable and benevolent people, for happiness and unhappiness are sisters and even twins that either grow up together or, as in your case, remain small together." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Behold! I am weary of my wisdom, like the bee that has gathered too much honey; I need hands outstretched to take it from me. I wish to spread it and bestow it, until the wise have once more become joyous in their folly, and the poor happy in their riches." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Let us beware of saying that death is the opposite of life. The living being is only a species of the dead, and a very rare species." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"You say that a good cause will even sanctify war! I tell you, it is the good war that sanctifies every cause!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Watch them clamber, these swift monkeys! They clamber over one another and thus drag one another into the mud and the depth. They all want to get to the throne: that is their madness — as if happiness sat on the throne. Often, mud sits on the throne — and often the throne also on mud. Mad they all appear to me, clambering monkeys and overardent. Foul smells their idol, the cold monster: foul, they smell to me altogether, these idolators. " -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To him who feels himself preordained to contemplation and not to belief, all believers are too noisy and obtrusive; he guards against them." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To live is to suffer; to survive is to find some meaning in the suffering." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In some remote corner of the universe, poured out and glittering among innumerable solar systems, there once was a star on which clever animals invented knowledge." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Without myth, however, every culture loses its healthy creative natural power: it is only a horizon encompassed with myth that rounds off to unity a social movement." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In truth, man is a polluted river. One must be a sea to receive a polluted river without becoming defiled. I bring you the Superman! He is that sea; in him your great contempt can be submerged." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"How can those who live in the light of the day possibly comprehend the depths of the night?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A nation is a detour of nature to arrive at five or six great men- yes, and then to get around them." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"وحدة البعض هي هروب المرضى، ووحدة البعض الاخر هي الهروب من المرضى" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"He who fights with monsters should be careful lest he thereby become a monster. And if thou gaze long into an abyss, the abyss will also gaze into thee." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Thus I spoke, more and more softly; for I was afraid of my own thoughts and the thoughts behind my thoughts." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Once upon a time, in some out of the way corner of that universe which is dispersed into numberless twinkling solar systems, there was a star upon which clever beasts invented knowing. That was the most arrogant and mendacious minute of ""world history,"" but nevertheless, it was only a minute. After nature had drawn a few breaths, the star cooled and congealed, and the clever beasts had to die. One might invent such a fable, and yet he still would not have adequately illustrated how miserable, how shadowy and transient, how aimless and arbitrary the human intellect looks within nature. There were eternities during which it did not exist. And when it is all over with the human intellect, nothing will have happened." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"And if you are not a bird, then beware of coming to rest above an abyss." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Of what is great one must either be silent or speak with greatness. With greatness--that means cynically and with innocence." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Pity preserves things that are ripe for decline, it defends things that have been disowned and condemned by life, and it gives a depressive and questionable character to life itself by keeping alive an abundance of failures of every type. People have dared to call pity a virtue… people have gone even further, making it into the virtue, the foundation and source of all virtues, - but of course you always have to keep in mind that this was the perspective of a nihilistic philosophy that inscribed the negation of life on its shield. Schopenhauer was right here: pity negates life, it makes life worthy of negation, - pity is the practice of nihilism. Once more: this depressive and contagious instinct runs counter to the instincts that preserve and enhance the value of life: by multiplying misery just as much as by conserving everything miserable, pity is one of the main tools used to increase decadence - pity wins people over to nothingness! … You do not say ‘nothingness' : instead you say ‘the beyond'; or ‘God'; or ‘the true life'; or nirvana, salvation, blessedness … This innocent rhetoric from the realm of religious-moral idiosyncrasy suddenly appears much less innocent when you see precisely which tendencies are wrapped up inside these sublime words: tendencies hostile to life." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Resentment, born of weakness, harms no one more than the weak person himself." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Life is that which must overcome itself again and again" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Not that you lied to me but that I no longer believe you has shaken me." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What, then, is truth? A mobile army of metaphors, metonyms, and anthropomorphisms – in short, a sum of human relations, which have been enhanced, transposed, and embellished poetically and rhetorically, and which after long use seem firm, canonical, and obligatory to a people: truths are illusions about which one has forgotten that this is what they are; metaphors which are worn out and without sensuous power; coins which have lost their pictures and now matter only as metal, no longer as coins." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To become what one is, one must not have the faintest notion of what one is... The whole surface of consciousness - for consciousness -is- a surface - must be kept clear of all great imperatives. Beware even of every great word, every great pose! So many dangers that the instinct comes too soon to ""understand itself"" --.Meanwhile, the organizing idea that is destined to rule keeps growing deep down - it begins to command, slowly it leads us back from side roads and wrong roads; it prepares single qualities and fitnesses that will one day prove to be indispensable as a means toward a whole - one by one, it trains all subservient capacities before giving any hint of the dominant task, ""goal,"" ""aim,"" or ""meaning." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"How lovely it is that there are words and sounds. Are not words and sounds rainbows and illusive bridges between things which are eternally apart?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Merchant and pirate were for a long period one and the same person. Even today mercantile morality is really nothing but a refinement of piratical morality." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Ultimately no one can hear in things―books included―more than he already knows. If you have no access to something from experience, you will have no ear for it." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Digressions, objections, delight in mockery, carefree mistrust are signs of health; everything unconditional belongs in pathology. " -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We would not let ourselves be burned to death for our opinions: we are not sure enough of them for that." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"This book belongs to the most rare of men. Perhaps not one of them is yet alive. First the day after tomorrow must come for me. Some men are born posthumously." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Where has God gone?' [the madman asked] 'I shall tell you. Wehave killed him – you and I. We are his murderers. But how have wedone this? How were we able to drink up the seas? Who gave us thesponge to wipe away the entire horizon? What did we do when weunchained the earth from its sun? Whither is it moving now?Whither are we moving now? Away from all suns? Are we not perpetually falling? Backwards, sideward, forward, in all directions? Is there any up or down left? Are we not straying as though through Infinite nothing?Where is God? God is Dead. Go remains dead. And we have killed him. How shall we, murders of all murders, console ourselves?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There is something quite amazing and monstrous about the education of upper-class women. What could be more paradoxical? All the world is agreed that they are to be brought up as ignorant as possible of erotic matters, and that one has to imbue their souls with a profound sense of shame in such matters until the merest suggestion of such things triggers the most extreme impatience and flight. The ""honor"" of women really comes into play only here: what else would one not forgive them? But here they are supposed to remain ignorant even in their hearts: they are supposed to have neither eyes nor ears, nor words, nor thoughts for this -- their ""evil;"" and mere knowledge is considered evil. And then to be hurled as by a gruesome lightning bolt, into reality and knowledge, by marriage -- precisely by the man they love and esteem most! To catch love and shame in a contradiction and to be forced to experience at the same time delight, surrender, duty, pity, terror, and who knows what else, in the face of the unexpected neighborliness of god and beast!Thus a psychic knot has been tied that may have no equal. Even the compassionate curiosity of the wisest student of humanity is inadequate for guessing how this or that woman manages to accommodate herself to this solution of the riddle, and to the riddle of a solution, and what dreadful, far-reaching suspicions must stir in her poor, unhinged soul -- and how the ultimate philosophy and skepsis of woman casts anchor at this point!Afterward, the same deep silence as before. Often a silence directed at herself, too. She closes her eyes to herself.Young women try hard to appear superficial and thoughtless. The most refined simulate a kind of impertinence.Women easily experience their husbands as a question mark concerning their honor, and their children as an apology or atonement. They need children and wish for them in a way that is altogether different from that in which a man may wish for children.In sum, one cannot be too kind about women." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We talk so abstractly about poetry because all of us are usually bad poets." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In revenge and in love woman is more barbaric than man is." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Human history would be nothing but a record of stupidity save for the cunning contributions of the weak" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There is a point in every philosophy at which the ""conviction"" of the philosopher appears on the scene; or, to put it in the words of an ancient mystery: adventavit asinus, / pulcher et fortissimus. (Translation: The ass arrives, beautiful and most brave.)" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The Hour-Hand of Life --- Life consists of rare, isolated moments of the greatest significance, and of innumerably many intervals, during which at best the silhouettes of those moments hover about us. Love, springtime, every beautiful melody, mountains, the moon, the sea – all these speak completely to the heart but once, if in fact they ever do get a chance to speak completely. For many men do not have those moments at all, and are themselves intervals and intermissions in the symphony of real life." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"أن أحيا كما أريد, أو لا أحيا إطلاقا" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"How does one become stronger? By deciding slowly; and by holding firmly to the decision once it is made. Everything else follows of itself." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Whoever knows he is deep, strives for clarity; whoever would like to appear deep to the crowd, strives for obscurity. For the crowd considers anything deep if only it cannot see to the bottom: the crowd is so timid and afraid of going into the water." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"And we should consider every day lost on which we have not danced at least once. And we should call every truth false which was not accompanied by at least one laugh" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Companions the creator seeks, not corpses, not herds and believers. Fellow creators the creator seeks -- those who write new values on new tablets. Companions the creator seeks, and fellow harvesters; for everything about him is ripe for the harvest." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Suppose a human being has thus put his ear, as it were, to the heart chamber of the world will and felt the roaring desire for existence pouring from there into all the veins of the world, as a thundering current or as the gentlest brook, dissolving into a mist—how could he fail to break suddenly? How could he endure to perceive the echo of innumerable shouts of pleasure and woe in the ""wide space of the world night,"" enclosed in the wretched glass capsule of the human individual, without inexorably fleeing toward his primordial home, as he hears this shepherd's dance of metaphysics? But if such a work could nevertheless be perceived as a whole, without denial of individual existence; if such a creation could be created without smashing its creator—whence do we take the solution of such a contradiction?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Women are considered deep - why? Because one can never discover any bottom to them. Women are not even shallow. " -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Let the youthful soul look back on life with the question: what have you truly loved up to now, what has elevated your soul, what has mastered it and at the same time delighted it? Place these venerated objects before you in a row, and perhaps they will yield for you, through their nature and their sequence, a law, the fundamental law of your true self. Compare these objects, see how one complements, expands, surpasses, transfigures another, how they form a stepladder upon which you have climbed up to yourself as you are now; for your true nature lies, not hidden deep within you, but immeasurably high above you, or at least above that which you normally take to be yourself." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The greatest weight.-- What, if some day or night a demon were to steal after you into your loneliest loneliness and say to you: ""This life as you now live it and have lived it, you will have to live once more and innumerable times more; and there will be nothing new in it, but every pain and every joy and every thought and sigh and everything unutterably small or great in your life will have to return to you, all in the same succession and sequence - even this spider and this moonlight between the trees, and even this moment and I myself. The eternal hourglass of existence is turned upside down again and again, and you with it, speck of dust!""Would you not throw yourself down and gnash your teeth and curse the demon who spoke thus?... Or how well disposed would you have to become to yourself and to life to crave nothing more fervently than this ultimate eternal confirmation and seal?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"And as long as you are in any way ashamed before yourself, you do not yet belong with us." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"All credibility, all good conscience, all evidence of truth come only from the senses." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Do you want to go along with others? or go on ahead? or go off on your own?...you must know  you want and  you want. Fourth question for the conscience." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The consequences of our actions take hold of us, quite indifferent to our claim that meanwhile we have 'improved." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Nobody can build the bridge for you to walk across the river of life, no one but you yourself alone. There are, to be sure, countless paths and bridges and demi-gods which would carry you across this river; but only at the cost of yourself; you would pawn yourself and lose. There is in the world only one way, on which nobody can go, except you: where does it lead? Do not ask, go along with it." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Amor fati: this is the very core of my being—And as to my prolonged illness, do I not owe much more to it than I owe to my health? To it I owe a higher kind of health, a sort of health which grows stronger under everything that does not actually kill it!—To it, I owe even my philosophy.… Only great suffering is the ultimate emancipator of spirit, for it teaches one that vast suspiciousness which makes an X out of every U, a genuine and proper X, i.e., the antepenultimate letter. Only great suffering; that great suffering, under which we seem to be over a fire of greenwood, the suffering that takes its time—forces us philosophers to descend into our nethermost depths, and to let go of all trustfulness, all good-nature, all whittling-down, all mildness, all mediocrity,—on which things we had formerly staked our humanity." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When man does not have firm, calm lines on the horizon of his life- mountain and forest lines, as it were- then a man's innermost will becomes agitated, preoccupied, and wistful." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One has to know the size of one's stomach." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Try for once to justify the meaning of your existence as it were a posteriori by setting yourself an aim, a goal... an exalted and noble 'to this end.' Perish in pursuit of this and only this" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Creating—that is the great salvation from suffering, and life's alleviation. But for the creator to appear, suffering itself is needed, and much transformation." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I would believe only in a god who could dance. And when I saw my devil I found him serious, thorough, profound, and solemn: it was the spirit of gravity - through him all things fall." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"He is called a free spirit who thinks differently from what, on the basis of his origin, environment, his class and profession, or on the basis of the dominant views of the age, would have been expected of him" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"No one is accountable for existing at all, or for being constituted as he is, or for living in the circumstances and surroundings in which he lives. The fatality of his nature cannot be disentangled from the fatality of all that which has been and will be. He is not the result of a special design, a will, a purpose; he is not the subject of an attempt to attain an 'ideal of man' or an 'ideal of happiness' or an 'ideal of morality'--it is absurd to want to hand over his nature to some purpose or other. We invented the concept 'purpose': in reality purpose is lacking...One is necessary, one is a piece of fate, one belongs to the whole, one is in the whole--there exists nothing which could judge, measure, compare, condemn our being, for that would be to judge, measure, condemn the whole..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Behind a remarkable scholar we not infrequently find an average human being, and behind an average artist we often find a very remarkable human being." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Almost everything we call ""higher culture"" is based on the spiritualization of cruelty." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Go up close to your friend but do not go over to him! We should respect the enemy that is in our friend" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Something unappeased, unappeasable, is within me." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I am alone again and I want to be so; alone with the pure sky and open sea." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I fear that, with our current veneration for the natural and the real, we have arrived at the opposite pole to all idealism, and have landed in the region of the waxworks." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In letting God sit in judgment they judge themselves; in glorifying God they glorify themselves." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The wisest man would be the one richest in contradictions, who has, as it were, antennae for all types of men---as well as his great moments of grand harmony---a rare accident even in us! A sort of planetary motion---" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Reason"" in language - oh, what an old deceptive female she is! I am afraid we are not rid of God because we still have faith in grammar." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Do you deserve truth? You sure seek it, but do you deserve it? If you want to see real things burning you first have to reach up to the height of the fire." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To get up in the morning, in the fullness of youth, and open a book--now that's what I call vicious!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Masks. - There are women who, however you may search them, prove to have no content but are purely masks. The man who associates with such almost spectral, necessarily unsatisfied beings is to be commiserated with, yet it is precisely they who are able to arouse the desire of the man most strongly: he seeks for her soul - and goes on seeking." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I can tell by my own reaction to it that this book is harmful."" But let him only wait and perhaps one day he will admit to himself that this same book has done him a great service by bringing out the hidden sickness of his heart and making it visible.— Altered opinions do not alter a man's character (or do so very little); but they do illuminate individual aspects of the constellation of his personality which with a different constellation of opinions had hitherto remained dark and unrecognizable." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"No one can draw more out of things, books included, than he already knows. A man has no ears for that to which experience has given him no access." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Faith is always coveted most and needed most urgently where will is lacking; for will, as the affect of command, is the decisive sign of sovereignty and strength. In other words, the less one knows how to command, the more urgently one covets someone who commands, who commands severely—a god, prince, class, physician, father confessor, dogma, or party conscience. From this one might perhaps gather that the two world religions, Buddhism and Christianity, may have owed their origin and above all their sudden spread to a tremendous collapse and disease of the will. And that is what actually happened: both religions encountered a situation in which the will had become diseased, giving rise to a demand that had become utterly desperate for some ""thou shalt."" Both religions taught fanaticism in ages in which the will had become exhausted, and thus they offered innumerable people some support, a new possibility of willing, some delight in willing. For fanaticism is the only ""strength of the will"" that even the weak and insecure can be brought to attain, being a sort of hypnotism of the whole system of the senses and the intellect for the benefit of an excessive nourishment (hypertrophy) of a single point of view and feeling that henceforth becomes dominant— which the Christian calls his faith. Once a human being reaches the fundamental conviction that he must be commanded, he becomes ""a believer.""Conversely, one could conceive of such a pleasure and power of self-determination, such a freedom of the will [ This conception of ""freedom of the will"" ( alias, autonomy) does not involve any belief in what Nietzsche called ""the superstition of free will"" in section 345 ( alias, the exemption of human actions from an otherwise universal determinism).] that the spirit would take leave of all faith and every wish for certainty, being practiced in maintaining himself on insubstantial ropes and possibilities and dancing even near abysses. Such a spirit would be the free spirit par excellence." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The most intelligent men, like the strongest, find their happiness where others would find only disaster: in the labyrinth, in being hard with themselves and with others, in effort; their delight is in self-mastery; in them asceticism becomes second nature, a necessity, an instinct. They regard a difficult task as a privilege; it is to them a recreation to play with burdens that would crush all others." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One is punished most for one's virtues." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There is not enough religion in the world to destroy the world's religions." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Language as putative science. - The significance of language for the evolution of culture lies in this, that mankind set up in language a separate world beside the other world, a place it took to be so firmly set that, standing upon it, it could lift the rest of the world off its hinges and make itself master of it. To the extent that man has for long ages believed in the concepts and names of things as in aeternae veritates he has appropriated to himself that pride by which he raised himself above the animal: he really thought that in language he possessed knowledge of the world. The sculptor of language was not so modest as to believe that he was only giving things designations, he conceived rather that with words he was expressing supreame knowledge of things; language is, in fact, the first stage of occupation with science. Here, too, it is the belief that the truth has been found out of which the mightiest sources of energy have flowed. A great deal later - only now - it dawns on men that in their belief in language they have propagated a tremendous error. Happily, it is too late for the evolution of reason, which depends on this belief, to be put back. - Logic too depends on presuppositions with which nothing in the real world corresponds, for example on the presupposition that there are identical things, that the same thing is identical at different points of time: but this science came into existence through the opposite belief (that such conditions do obtain in the real world). It is the same with mathematics, which would certainly not have come into existence if one had known from the beginning that there was in nature no exactly straight line, no real circle, no absolute magnitude." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Wisdom—seems to the rabble a kind of escape, a means and a trick for getting well out of a wicked game. But the genuine philosopher—as it seems to us, my friends?—lives 'unphilosophically' and 'unwisely,' above all imprudently, and feels the burden and the duty of a hundred attempts and temptations of life—he risks himself constantly, he plays the wicked game." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What does our great historical hunger signify, our clutching about us of countless cultures, our consuming desire for knowledge, if not the loss of myth, of a mythic home, the mythic womb?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Weariness that wants to reach the ultimate with one leap, with one fatal leap, a poor ignorant weariness that does not want to want any more: this created all gods and afterworlds." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We set no special value on the possession of a virtue until we percieve that it is entirely lacking in our adversary." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Disobedience- that is the nobility of slaves." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"أكثر أشكال الغباء انتشاراً هو أن ينسى المرء الهدف من وجود" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Indeed, at hearing the news that 'the old god is dead', we philosophers and 'free spirits' feel illuminated by a new dawn; our heart overflows with gratitude, amazement, forebodings, expectation - finally the horizon seems clear again, even if not bright; finally our ships may set out again, set out to face any danger; every daring of the lover of knowledge is allowed again; the sea, our sea, lies open again; maybe there has never been such an 'open sea'." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Everything in the world displeases me: but, above all, my displeasure in everything displeases me." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What do you consider the most humane? - To spare someone shame. What is the seal of liberation? - To no longer be ashamed in front of oneself." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Not he is great who can alter matter, but he who can alter my state of mind." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"However modest one may be in one's demand for intellectual cleanliness, one cannot help feeling, when coming into contact with the New Testament, a kind of inexpressible discomfiture: for the unchecked impudence with which the least qualified want to raise their voice on the greatest problems, and even claim to be judges of things, surpasses all measure. The shameless levity with which the most intractable problems (life, world, God, purpose of life) are spoken of, as if they were not problems at all but simply things that these little bigots KNEW!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is not the strength, but the duration, of great sentiments that makes great men." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The majority of men prefer delusion to truth. It soothes. It is easy to grasp." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We laugh at a man who, stepping out of his room at the very minute when the sun is rising, says, 'It is my will that the sun shall rise'; or at him who, unable to stop a wheel, says, 'I wish it to roll'; or, again, at him who, thrown in a wrestling match, says, 'Here I lie, but here I wish to lie.' But, joking apart, do we not act like one of these three persons whenever we use the expression 'I wish'?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is a terrible thought, to contemplate that an immense number of mediocre thinkers are occupied with really influential matters." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Alas, I have begun my loneliest walk. But whoever is of my kind, cannot escape such an hour, the hour which says to him, 'Only now are you going your way to greatness. Peak and abyss, they are now joined together, for all things are baptized in a well of eternity, and lie beyond good and evil." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"نهایت پختگی یک مرد آن است که به جدیتی برسد که در کودکی هنگام بازی کردن داشته است" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What really raises one's indignation against suffering is not suffering intrinsically, but the senselessness of suffering" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In conversation we are sometimes confused by the tone of our own voice, and mislead to make assertions that do not at all correspond to our opinions." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Solitude is a virtue for us, since it is a sublime inclination and impulse to cleanliness which shows that contact between people, 'society', inevitably makes things unclean. Somewhere, sometime, every community makes people—'base." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"While the noble man lives in trust and openness with himself ( 'of noble descent' underlines the nuance 'upright' and probably also 'naïve'), the man of  is neither upright nor naive nor honest and straightforward with himself. His soul ; his spirit loves hiding places, secret paths and back doors, everything covert entices him as  world,  security,  refreshment; he understands how to keep silent, how not to forget, how to wait, how to be provisionally self-deprecating and humble. A race of such men of  is bound to become eventually cleverer than any noble race; it will also honor cleverness to a far greater degree: namely, as a condition of existence of the first importance; while with noble men cleverness can easily acquire a subtle flavor of luxury and subtlety—for here it is far less essential than the perfect functioning of the regulating  instincts or even than a certain imprudence, perhaps a bold recklessness whether in the face of danger or of the enemy, or that enthusiastic impulsiveness in anger, love, reverence, gratitude, and revenge by which noble souls have at all times recognized one another.  itself, if it should appear in the noble man, consummates and exhausts itself in an immediate reaction, and therefore does not : on the other hand, it fails to appear at all on countless occasions on which it inevitably appears in the weak and impotent." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Dostoevsky,the only psychologist from whom I've anything to learn." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It was the sick and decaying who despised the body and earth and invented the heavenly realm and the redemptive drops of blood: but they took even these sweet and gloomy poisons from body and earth. They wanted to escape their own misery, and the stars were too far for them." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The happiness of man is: I will. The happiness of woman is: he wills. ‘Behold, just now the world became perfect!'—thus thinks every woman when she obeys out of entire love. And women must obey and find a depth for her surface. Surface is the disposition of woman: a mobile, stormy film over shallow water. Man's disposition, however, is deep; his river roars in subterranean caves: woman feels his strength but does not comprehend it." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We no longer have a sufficiently high estimate of ourselves when we communicate. Our true experiences are not garrulous. They could not communicate themselves if they wanted to: they lack words. We have already grown beyond whatever we have words for. In all talking there lies a grain of contempt. Speech, it seems, was devised only for the average medium, communicable. The speaker has already vulgarized himself by speaking." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The person who fights monsters should make sure that in the process, he does not become a monster himself. Because when you stare down at an abyss, the abyss stares back at you." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Only ideas won by walking have any value." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Poets treat their experiences shamelessly: they exploit them" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"State is the name of the coldest of all cold monsters. Coldly it lies; and this lie slips from its mouth: 'I, the state, am the people." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"الحياة جدل بين الذوق والتذوق" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"[I]n nooks all over the earth sit men who are waiting, scarcely knowing in what way they are waiting, much less that they are waiting in vain. Occasionally the call that awakens– that accident which gives the 'permission to act — comes too late, when the best youth and strength for action has already been used up by sitting still; and many have found to their horror when they ‘leaped up' that their limbs had gone to sleep and their spirit had become to heavy. ‘It is too late,' they said to themselves, having lost their faith in themselves and henceforth forever useless." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Lightning and thunder require time, the light of the stars requires time, deeds require time even after they are done, before they can be seen and heard." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Not every end is the goal. The end of a melody is not its goal,  and yet if  a melody has not  reached its end, it has not reached its goal." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Our crime against criminals lies in the fact that we treat them like rascals." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Thus, the philosopher dislikes marriage as well as what might persuade him into it??marriage is a barrier and a disaster along his route to the optimal. What great philosopher up to now has been married? Heraclitus, Plato, Descartes, Spinoza, Leibtniz, Kant, Schopenhauer?? None of these got married. What`s more, we cannot even imagine them married. A married philosopher belongs in a comedy, that`s my principle. And Socrates, the exception, the malicious Socrates, it appears, got married ironically to demonstrate this very principle.Every philosopher would speak as once Buddha spoke when someone told him of the birth his son, ""Rahula has been born to me. A shackle has been forged for me."" (Rahula here means ""a little demon""). To every ""free spirit"" there must come a reflective hour, provided that previously he has had a one without thought, of the sort that came then to Buddha - ""Life in a house,"" he thought to himself, ""is narrow and confined, a polluted place. Freedom consists of abandoning houses;"" ""because he thought this way, he left the house." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What? A great man? I only ever see the ape of his own ideal." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Wohl bin ich ein Wald und eine Nacht dunkler Bäume: doch wer sich vor meinem Dunkel nicht scheut, der findet auch Rosenhänge unter meinen Zypressen." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"On the mountains of truth you can never climb in vain: either you will reach a point higher up today, or you will be training your powers so that you will be able to climb higher tomorrow. -" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It may be that until now there has been no more potent means for beautifying man himself than piety: it can turn man into so much art, surface, play of colors, graciousness that his sight no longer makes one suffer.---" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is the evening that questions thus from within me." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"‎The struggle of maturity is to recover the seriousness of a child at play." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"أحمق من لا يزال يتعثر فى الأحجار والبشر" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Ages of happiness. - An age of happiness is quite impossible, because men want only to desire it but not to have it, and every individual who experiences good times learns to downright pray for misery and disquietude. The destiny of man is designed for happy moments - every life has them - but not for happy ages. Nonetheless they will remain fixed in the imagination of man as 'the other side of the hill' because they have been inherited from ages past: for the concepts of the age of happiness was no doubt acquired in primeval times from that condition of which, after violent exertion in hunting and warfare, man gives himself up to repose, stretches his limbs and hears the pinions of sleep rustling about him. It is a false conclusion if, in accordance with that ancient familiar experience, man imagines that, after whole ages of toil and deprivation, he can then partake of that condition of happiness correspondingly enhanced and protracted." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Injustice and filth they throw after the lonely one: but, my brother, if you would be a star, you must not shine less for them because of that. And beware of the good and the just! They like to crucify those who invent their own virtue for themselves—they hate the lonely one." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"As is well known, the priests are the most evil enemies—but why? Because they are the most impotent. It is because of their impotence that in them hatred grows to monstrous and uncanny proportions, to the most spiritual and poisonous kind of hatred. The truly great haters in world history have always been priests; likewise the most ingenious haters: other kinds of spirit hardly come into consideration when compared with the spirit of priestly vengefulness." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When one is young, one venerates and despises without that art of nuances which constitutes the best gain of life, and it is only fair that one has to pay dearly for having assaulted men and things in this manner with Yes and No. Everything is arranged so that the worst of tastes, the taste for the unconditional, should be cruelly fooled and abused until a man learns to put a little art into his feelings and rather to risk trying even what is artificial — as the real artists of life do." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Human life is inexplicable, and still without meaning: a fool may decide its fate." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"آشفتگي من از اين نيست که تو به من دروغ گفته اي، از اين آشفته ام که ديگر نميتوانم تو را باور کنم.  " -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Was mich nicht umbringt, macht mich stärker." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Now I go alone, my disciples, You too, go now alone. Thus I want it. Go away from me and resist Zarathustra! And even better: be ashamed of him! Perhaps he deceived you… One pays a teacher badly if one always remains nothing but a pupil. And why do you not want to pluck at my wreath? You revere me; but what if your reverence tumbles one day? Beware lest a statue slay you. You say that you believe in Zarathustra? But what matters Zarathustra? You are my believers – but what matter all believers? You had not yet sought yourselves; and you found me. Thus do all believers; therefore all faith amounts to so little. Now I bid you to lose me and find yourselves; and only then when you have all denied me will I return to you… that I may celebrate the great noon with you." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Deeds need time, even after they are done, in order to be seen or heard." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Why does Homer give us descriptions so much more vivid than all the poets. Because he sees so much more around him. We speak about poetry so abstractly because we all tend to be poor poets. The aesthetic phenomenon is fundamentally simple: if someone simply possesses the capacity to see a living game going on continually and to live all the time surrounded by hordes of ghosts, then the man is a poet; if someone simply feels the urge to change himself and to speak out from other bodies and souls, then that person is a dramatist." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"You should seek your enemy, you should wage your war - a war for your opinions. And when your opinion is defeated, our honesty should still cry triumph over that!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When we hear the ancient bells growling on a Sunday morning we ask ourselves: Is it really possible! This, for a jew, crucified two thousand years ago, who said he was God's son? The proof of such a claim is lacking. Certainly the Christian religion is an antiquity projected into our times from remote prehistory; and the fact that the claim is believed - whereas one is otherwise so strict in examining pretensions - is perhaps the most ancient piece of this heritage. A god who begets children with a mortal woman; a sage who bids men work no more, have no more courts, but look for the signs of the impending end of the world; a justice that accepts the innocent as a vicarious sacrifice; someone who orders his disciples to drink his blood; prayers for miraculous interventions; sins perpetrated against a god, atoned for by a god; fear of a beyond to which death is the portal; the form of the cross as a symbol in a time that no longer knows the function and ignominy of the cross -- how ghoulishly all this touches us, as if from the tomb of a primeval past! Can one believe that such things are still believed?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Water is sufficient...the spirit moves over water." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There is nothing very odd about lambs disliking birds of prey, but this is no reason for holding it against large birds of prey that they carry off lambs. And when the lambs whisper among themselves, 'These birds of prey are evil, and does this not give us a right to say that whatever of the opposite of a bird of prey must be good?', there is nothing intrinsically wrong with such an argument - though the birds of prey will look somewhat quizzically and say, 'Wehave nothing against these good lambs; in fact, we love them; nothing tastes better than a tender lamb." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I love him whose soul is deep, even in being wounded, and who may perish through a minor matter: thus he goes willingly over the bridge. I love him whose soul is so overfull that he forgets himself, and all things are in him: thus all things become his going under. I love him who has a free spirit and a free heart: thus his head is only the guts of his heart; his heart, however, causes his going under. I love all who are like heavy drops falling one by one out of the cloud that lowers over man: they herald the coming of the lightning, and as heralds they perish." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One thing a man must have: either a naturally light disposition or a disposition lightened by art and knowledge." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It breaks my heart. Better than your words, your eye tells me all your peril.You are not yet free, you still search for freedom. Your search has fatigued you and made you too wakeful.You long for the open heights, your soul thirsts for the stars. But your bad instincts too thirst for freedom.Your fierce dogs long for freedom; they bark for joy in their cellar when your spirit aspires to break open all prisons.To me you are still a prisoner who imagines freedom: ah, such prisoners of the soul become clever, but also deceitful and base.The free man of the spirit, too, must still purify himself. Much of the prison and rottenness still remain within him: his eye still has to become pure.Yes, I know your peril. But, by my love and hope I entreat you: do not reject your love and hope!You still feel yourself noble, and the others, too, who dislike you and cast evil glances at you, still feel you are noble. Learn that everyone finds the noble man an obstruction.The good, too, find the noble man an obstruction: and even when they call him a good man they do so in order to make away with him.The noble man wants to create new things and a new virtue. The good man wants the old things and that the old things shall be preserved.But that is not the danger for the noble man — that he may become a good man — but that he may become an impudent one, a derider, a destroyer.Alas, I have known noble men who lost their highest hope. And henceforth they slandered all high hopes.Henceforth they lived impudently in brief pleasures, and they had hardly an aim beyond the day.‘Spirit is also sensual pleasure' — thus they spoke. Then the wings of their spirit broke: now it creeps around and it makes dirty what it feeds on.Once they thought of becoming heroes: now they are sensualists. The hero is to them an affliction and a terror.But, by my love and hope I entreat you: do not reject the hero in your soul! Keep holy your highest hope!Thus spoke Zarathustra." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A man who wills commands something within himself that renders obedience, or that he believes renders obedience." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Those moralists, on the other hand, who, following in the footsteps of Socrates, offer the individual a morality of self-control and temperance as a means to his own advantage, as his personal key to happiness, are the exceptions." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"And when he invented his hell, that was his heaven on earth." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Reality is a flux, an endless becoming that is beyond words and language - all language is metaphor, useful to us but ultimately detached from reality." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Was aus Liebe getan wird, geschieht immer jenseits von Gut und Böse. (What is done out of love always takes place beyond good and evil.)" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Never trust a thought that occurs to you indoors." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Under peaceful conditions, the warlike man attacks himself." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"You may lie with your mouth, but with the mouth you make as you do so you none the less tell the truth." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"And if you gaze long enough into an abyss, the abyss will gaze back into you." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Man is the most bungled of all the animals, the sickliest, and not one has strayed more dangerously from its instincts. But for all that, of course, he is the most interesting." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The value of a thing sometimes lies not in what one attains with it, but in what one pays for it - what it costs us." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"God is dead, God remains dead, and we have killed him." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"الإله يخفيه حجاب جماله، هكذا تحجبين نجومك.. أنتِ لا تتكلمين؛ وهكذا تكشفين لي عن حكمتك" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"You have evolved from worm to man, but much within you is still worm. Once you were apes, yet even now man is more of an ape than any of the apes." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"if you kill a cockroach you are a hero, if you kill a butterfly, you are evil. morals have aesthetic criteria." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Fanatics are picturesque, mankind would rather see gestures than listen to reasons." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Are you one who looks on? or lends a hand? - or who looks away, sidles off?...Third question for the conscience." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What is good? - All that heightens the feelings of power, the will to power, power itself in man. What is bad? - All that proceeds from weakness. What is happiness? - The feeling that power increases - that a resistance is overcome." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Art is not merely an imitation of the reality of nature, but in truth a metaphysical supplement to the reality of nature, placed alongside thereof for its conquest. " -Friedrich Nietzsche
"the lie is a condition of life." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"ناامیدی بهایی است که فرد برای خودآگاهی می پردازد" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The word ""Christianity"" is already a misunderstanding; in reality there has been only one Christian, and he died on the cross." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Another thing is war. I am naturally warlike. Attacking is one of my instincts. Being able to be an enemy, being an enemy — these require a strong nature, perhaps; in any case every strong nature presupposes them. It needs resistances, so it seeks resistance: aggressive pathos is just as integrally necessary to strength as the feeling of revenge and reaction is to weakness. Woman, forinstance, is vengeful: that is a condition of her weakness, as is her sensitivity to other people's afﬂictions. — The strength of anattacker can in a way be gauged by the opposition he requires; allgrowth makes itself manifest by searching out a more powerful opponent — or problem: for a philosopher who is warlike challenges problems to duels, too. The task is not to master all resistances, but only those against which one has to pit one's entire strength, suppleness, and mastery-at-arms — opponents who are equal..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"i have never pondered over questions that are not questions." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Why go on clinging to this clod of earth, this way of life, why pay heed to what your neighbour says? It is so parochial to bind oneself to views which are no longer binding even a couple of hundred miles away. Orient and Occident are chalk-lines drawn before us to fool our timidity. I will make an attempt to attain freedom, the youthful soul says to itself; and is it to be hindered in this by the fact that two nations happen to hate and fight one another, or that two continents are separated by an ocean, or that all around it a religion is taught which, nevertheless, did not exist a few thousand years ago. All that is not you, it says to itself." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Even the most courageous among us only rarely has the courage to face what he already knows." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Existence really is an imperfect tense that never becomes a present." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is invisible hands that torment and bend us the worst" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The pathetic thing that grows out of this condition is called faith: in other words, closing one's eyes upon one's self once for all, to avoid suffering the sight of incurable falsehood. People erect a concept of morality, of virtue, of holiness upon this false view of all things; they ground good conscience upon faulty vision; they argue that no other sort of vision has value any more, once they have made theirs sacrosanct with the names of ""God,"" ""salvation"" and ""eternity."" I unearth this theological instinct in all directions: it is the most widespread and the most subterranean form of falsehood to be found on earth." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The images of myth must be the daemonic guardians, omnipresent and unnoticed, which protect the growth of the young mind, and guide man's interpretation of his life and struggles." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Read from a distant star, the majuscule script of our earthly existence would perhaps lead to the conclusion that the earth was the distinctively ascetic planet, a nook of disgruntled, arrogant creatures filled with a profound disgust with themselves, at the earth, at all life, who inflict as much pain on themselves as they possibly can out of pleasure in inflicting pain which is probably their only pleasure." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"if a person wishes to achieve peace of mind and happiness then they should acquire faith, but if they want to be a disciple of truth, which can be ""frightening and ugly,' then they need tosearch." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There are days when I am haunted by a feeling that is blacker than the blackest melancholy. I have a contempt for humanity. I despise the people I have been fated to call my contemporaries. I feel suffocated by their filthy breath." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In some remote corner of the universe, poured out and glittering in innumerable solar systems, there once was a star on which clever animals invented knowledge. That was the haughtiest and most mendacious minute of ""world history""- yet only a minute. After nature had drawn a few breaths the star grew cold, and the clever animals had to die." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Mystical explanations are considered deep. The truth is that they are not even superficial." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Healthy introspection, without undermining oneself; it is a rare gift to venture into the unexplored depths of the self, without delusions or fictions, but with an uncorrupted gaze." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Sometimes it is harder to accede to a thing than it is to see its truth." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The melancholy of everything completed!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Here the spirit becomes a lion who would conquer his freedom and be master…Who is the great dragon whom the spirit will no longer call lord and go? ‘Thou shalt' is the name of the great dragon.But the spirit of the lion says, ‘I will." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Men of profound sadness betray themselves when they are happy: they have a mode of seizing upon happiness as though they would choke and strangle it, out of jealousy--ah, they know only too well that it will flee from them!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The existence of forgetting has never been proved: we only know that some things do not come to our mind when we want them to." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Dead are all gods: now we want the overman to live." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Every achievement, every step forward in knowledge, is the consequence of courage, of toughness towards oneself, of sincerity to oneself" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"You say you're a pessimist, but I happen to know that you're in the habit of practicing your flute for two hours every evening." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"For nothing is more democratic than logic; it is no respecter of persons and makes no distinction between crooked and straight noses." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"ضوء منتصف الليل من حولي دائمًا، وإلى جانبه كانت تقبع الوحدة، وثالثهما حشرجة الصمت الموات، أسوأ أصدقائي جميعًا" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"God is a thought who makes crooked all that is straight. " -Friedrich Nietzsche
"As an artist, a man has no home in Europe save in Paris." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I am a disciple of the philosopher Dionysus, and I would prefer to be even a satyr than a saint." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Their [philosophers] thinking is, in fact, far less a discovery than a re-recognizing, a remembering, a return and a home-coming to a far-off, ancient common-household of the soul, out of which those ideas formerly grew: philosophizing is so far a kind of atavism of the highest order." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"إن الإنسان مثله مثل الشجرة. كلما رنا إلى الأعالي و إلى النور إلا ونحت جذوره إلى التوغل في الأرض، في التحت، في العتمة و لعمق - في الشر." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Generally speaking, punishment makes men hard and cold; it concentrates; it sharpens the feeling of alienation; it strengthens the power of resistance" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"If, in all that you wish to do, you begin by asking yourself: am I certain that I would wish to do this an infinite number of times? This should be for you the most solid centre of gravity . . . My doctrine says, the task is to live your life in such a way that you must wish to live it again - for you will anyway! If striving gives you the highest feeling, then strive! If rest gives you the highest feeling, then rest! If fitting in, following and obeying give you the highest feeling, then obey! Only make sure you come to know what gives you the highest feeling, and then spare no means. Eternity is at stake! This doctrine is mild in its treatment of those who do not believe in it. It has neither hell nor threats. But anyone who does not believe merely lives a fugitive life in the consciousness of it." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Supposing truth is a woman -- what then?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I tell you: one must still have chaos in oneself to give birth to a dancing star. I tell you: you still have chaos in yourselves." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A traveler who had seen many countries, peoples and several of the earth's continents was asked what attribute he had found in men everywhere. He said: 'They have a propensity for laziness.' To others, it seems that he should have said: 'They are all fearful. They hide themselves behind customs and opinions.' In his heart every man knows quite well that, being unique, he will be in the world only once and that there will be no second chance for his oneness to coalesce from the strangely variegated assortment that he is: he knows it but hides it like a bad conscience – why? From fear of his neighbor, who demands conformity and cloaks himself with it. But what is it that forces the individual to fear his neighbor, to think and act like a member of a herd, and to have no joy in himself? Modesty, perhaps, in a few rare cases. For the majority it is idleness, inertia, in short that propensity for laziness of which the traveler spoke. He is right: men are even lazier than they are fearful." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Every philosophy is a foreground philosophy — that is a hermit's judgment: ""There is something arbitrary in his stopping  to look back and look around, in his not digging deeper  but laying his spade aside; there is also something suspicious about it."" Every philosophy also  a philosophy; every opinion is also a hideout, every word also a mask." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Man... cannot learn to forget, but hangs on the past: however far or fast he runs, that chain runs with him." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It takes chaos to give birth to a dancing star" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To what end the ‘world' exists, to what end ‘man­kind' exists, ought not to concern us at all for the moment except as objects of humour: for the presumptuousness of the little human worm is the funniest thing at present on the world's stage; on the other hand, do ask yourself why you, the individual, exist, and if you can get no other answer try for once to justify the meaning of your existence as it were a posteriori by setting before yourself an aim, a goal, a ‘to this end', an exalted and noble ‘to this end' . Perish in pursuit of this and only this - I know of no better aim of life than that of perishing, animae magnae prodigus, in pursuit of the great and the impossible. If, on the other hand, the doctrines of sovereign becoming, of the fluidity of all concepts, types and species, of the lack of any cardinal distinction between man and animal - doctrines which I consider true but deadly - are thrust upon the people for another generation with the rage for instruction that has by now become normal, no one should be surprised if the people perishes of petty egoism, ossification and greed, falls apart and ceases to be a people; in its place sys­tems of individualist egoism, brotherhoods for the rapacious exploitation of the non-brothers, and similar creations of utilitarian vulgarity may perhaps appear in the arena of the future. To prepare the way for these creations all one has to do is to go on writing history from the standpoint of the masses and seeking to derive the laws which govern it from the needs of these masses, that is to say from the laws which move the lowest mud- and clay-strata of society. The masses seem to me to deserve notice in three respects only: first as faded copies of great men produced on poor paper with worn-out plates, then as a force of resistance to great men, finally as instruments in the hands of great men; for the rest, let the Devil and statistics take them!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It was a subtle refinement of God to learn Greek when he wished to write a book – and that he did not learn it better." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"And life confided the secret to me: behold, it said, l am that which must always overcome itself." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Books and drafts mean something quite different for different thinkers. One collects in a book the lights he was able to steal and carry home swiftly out of the rays of some insight that suddenly dawned on him, while another thinker offers us nothing but shadows - images in black and grey of what had built up in his soul the day before." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is not doubt but certainty that drives you mad..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Courage, however, is the best slayer—courage which attacks: which slays even death itself, for it says, 'Was that life? Well then! Once more!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What else is love but understanding and rejoicing in the fact that another person lives acts and experiences otherwise than we do?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When a woman has scholarly inclinations there is usually something wrong with her sexuality." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Without music, life would be a mistake.. I would only believe in a God who knew how to dance." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"صبوری هنر پنهان کردن بی صبری است" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Saying yes to life, even in its strangest and hardest problems." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The demand to be loved is the greatest of all arrogant presumptions." -Friedrich Nietzsche
". . . there is no being behind doing, effecting, becoming; ""the doer"" is merely a fiction added to the deed—the deed is everything." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I do not refute ideals, I merely put on gloves when I deal with them..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"...inability to lie is still far from being love to truth. Be on your guard! ... He who cannot lie, doth not know what truth is." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A man recovers best from his exceptional nature - his intellectuality - by giving his animal instincts a chance." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Everything in proximity to the hero becomes tragedy; everything in proximity to the demigod becomes satyr-play; and everything in proximity to God becomes...what? ""world"" perhaps?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In every real man, a child is hidden that wants to play." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"For one thing is needful: that a human being should attain satisfaction with himself, whether it be by means of this or that poetry or art; only then is a human being at all tolerable to behold. Whoever is dissatisfied with himself is constantly ready for revenge, and we others will be his victims, if only by having to endure his ugly sight." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What have we in common with the rosebud, which trembles because a drop of dew is lying upon it?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Every word is a prejudice." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is a new step towards independence, once a man dares to express opinions that bring disgrace on him if he entertains them; then even his friends and acquaintances begin to grow anxious. The man of talent must pass through this fire, too; afterwards he is much more his own person." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When Zarathustra had spoken these words, he again looked at the people, and was silent. ""There they stand,"" said he to his heart; ""there they laugh: they do not understand me; I am not the mouth for these ears." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Against the censurers of brevity. - Something said briefly can be the fruit of much long thought: but the reader who is a novice in this field, and has as yet reflected on it not at all, sees in everything said briefly something embryonic, not without censuring the author for having served him up such immature and unripened fare." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"تنها این دو تو را از جمله ی رنجها می رهانداکنون برگزینمرگ زودهنگام یا عشق طولانی." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Energy wasted on negative ends." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"None of the people have any real interest in a science, who only begin to be enthusiastic about it when they themselves have made discoveries in it." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"التكفير عن الماضي وتحويل كل شيء (كان) إلى (ما أود أن أحوزه) هذا وحده ما أسميه التفكير" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Joyous distrust is a sign of health. Everything absolute belongs to pathology." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The free spirit again draws near to life - slowly, to be sure, almost reluctantly, almost mistrustfully. It again grows warmer about him, yellower as it were; feeling and feeling for others acquire depth, warm breezes of all kind blow across him. It seems to him as if his eyes are only now open to what is close at hand. he is astonished and sits silent: where had he been? These close and closest things: how changed they seem! what bloom and magic they have acquired! He looks back gratefully - grateful to his wandering, to his hardness and self-alienation, to his viewing of far distances and bird-like flights in cold heights. What a good thing he had not always stayed ""at home,"" stayed ""under his own roof"" like a delicate apathetic loafer! He had been -beside himself-: no doubt about that. Only now does he see himself - and what surprises he experiences as he does so! What unprecedented shudders! What happiness even in the weariness, the old sickness, the relapses of the convalescent! How he loves to sit sadly still, to spin out patience, to lie in the sun! Who understands as he does the joy that comes in winter, the spots of sunlight on the wall! They are the most grateful animals in the world, also the most modest, these convalescents and lizards again half-turned towards life: - there are some among them who allow no day to pass without hanging a little song of praise on the hem of its departing robe. And to speak seriously: to become sick in the manner of these free spirits, to remain sick for a long time and then, slowly, slowly, to become healthy, by which I mean ""healthier,"" is a fundamental cure for all pessimism." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Where one can no longer love, there one should pass by." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"لابد من وجود كاتب رديء باستمرار، وذلك لأنه يشبع ذوق الأجيال الشابة التي لم تتطور بعد. ولهذه الأجيال حاجات كالآخرين تماماً، ولو كانت الحياة الإنسانية أطول لكان عدد الناضجين يفوق أو يعادل عدد اللاناضجين، أي أن هناك دوماً غالبية من العقول المتخلفة ذات الذوق الرديء. هذه العقول تطالب، وبكل عنف الشباب، بإرضاء وإشباع حاجاتها وتسبب وجود كتّاب رديئين مخصصين لها." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To be sure, I am a forest, and a night of dark trees: but (s)he who is not afraid of my darkness, will find banks full of roses under my cypresses." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"... all life rests on appearance, art, illusion, optics, the need for perspective and for error..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"But like infection is the petty thought: it creeps and hides, and wants to be nowhere--until the whole body is decayed and withered by the petty infection... Thus spoke Zarathustra." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I beseech you, my brothers, remain faithful to the earth, and do not believe those who speak to you of otherworldly hopes! Poison-mixers are they, whether they know it or not. Despisers of life are they, decaying and poisoned themselves, of whom the earth is weary: so let them go. Once the sin against God was the greatest sin; but God died, and these sinners died with him. To sin against the earth is now the most dreadful thing, and to esteem the entrails of the unknowable higher than the meaning of the earth... What is the greatest experience you can have? It is the hour of the great contempt. The hour when your happiness, too, arouses your disgust, and even your reason and your virtue." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"O man! Attend!What does deep midnight's voice contend?I slept my sleep,And now awake at dreaming's end:The world is deep,And deeper than day can comprehend.Deep is its woe,Joy—deeper than heart's agony:Woe says: Fade! Go!But all joy wants eternity,Wants deep, wants deep eternity." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There have been two great narcotics in European civilisation: Christianity and alcohol." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"For the new year. -- I still live, I still think: I still have to live, for I still have to think. Sum, ergo cogito: cogito, ergo sum. Today everybody permits himself the expression of his wish and his dearest thought: hence I, too, shall say what it is that I wish from myself today, and what was the first thought to run across my heart this year -- what thought shall be for me the reason, warranty, and sweetness of my life henceforth. I want to learn to see more and more as beautiful what is necessary in things; then I shall be one of those who makes things beautiful. Amor fati: let that be my love henceforth! I do not want to wage war against what is ugly. I do not want to accuse. Looking away shall be my only negation. And all and all and on the whole: someday I wish to be only a Yes-sayer." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is a pity that there was no Dostoevsky living near this most interesting decadent [Jesus], I mean someone with an eye for the distinctive charm that this sort of mixture of sublimity, sickness, and childishness has to offer." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When the anarchist, as the mouthpiece of the  levels of society, insists on 'right,' 'justice,' 'equal rights' with such beautiful indignation, he is just acting under the pressure of his lack of culture, which cannot grasp  he really suffers,  he is poor in– in life.A drive to find causes is powerful in him: it must be somebody's fault that he's feeling bad . . . Even his 'beautiful indignation' does him good; all poor devils like to whine--it gives them a little thrill of power. Even complaints, the act of complaining, can give life the charm on account of which one can stand to live it: there is a subtle dose of  in every complaint; one blames those who are different for one's own feeling bad, and in certain circumstances even being bad, as if they were guilty of an injustice, a  privilege. 'If I'm a lowlife, you should be one too': on this logic, revolutions are built.–Complaining is never good for anything; it comes from weakness. Whether one ascribes one's feeling bad to others or to –the socialist does the former, the Christian, for example, the latter–makes no real difference. What is common to both and, let us add, what is , is that it should be someone's  that one is suffering–in short, that the sufferer prescribes the honey of revenge as a cure for his own suffering." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The Christian faith from the beginning, is sacrifice the sacrifice of all freedom, all pride, all self-confidence of spirit, it is at the same time subjection, self-derision, and self-mutilation." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I have done that', says my memory. I cannot have done that—says my pride and remains unshakeable. Finally—memory yields." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The best friend will probably acquire the best wife, because a good marriage is founded on the talent for friendship." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"throw roses into the abyss and say: ‘here is my thanks to the monster who didn't succeed in swallowing me alive." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is certainly not the least charm of a theory that it is refutable; it is precisely thereby that it attracts the more subtle minds. It seems that the hundred-times-refuted theory of the ""free will"" owes its persistence to this charm alone; some one is always appearing who feels himself strong enough to refute it." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"He who has a Why can endure any How." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is intoxicating joy for the sufferer to look away from his suffering and to forget himself." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Not without deep pain do we admit to ourselves that the artists of all ages have in their highest flights carried to heavenly transfiguration precisely those conceptions that we now recognize as false: they are the glorifiers of the religious and philosophical errors of humanity, and they could not have done this without their belief in the absolute truth of these errors. Now if the belief in such truth generally diminishes, if the rainbow colors at the outermost ends of human knowing and imagining fade: then the species of art that, like the , Raphael's pictures, Michelangelo's frescoes, the Gothic cathedrals, presupposes not only a cosmic, but also a metaphysical significance for art objects can never blossom again. A touching tale will come of this, that there was once such an art, such belief by artists." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The misunderstanding of passion and reason, as if the latter were an independent entity and not rather a system of relations between various passions and desires; and as if every passion did not possess its quantum of reason" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When we have to change an opinion about any one, we charge heavily to his account the inconvenience he thereby causes us." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Perhaps I am even envious of Stendhal? He robbed me of the best atheist joke which precisely I could have made: 'God's only excuse is that he does not exist'...I myself have said somewhere: what hitherto been the greatest objection to existence? ..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In the end one experiences only oneself." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The state, I call it, where all are poison-drinkers, the good and the bad: the state, where all lose themselves, the good and the bad: the state, where the slow suicide of all — is called ""life.""Just see these superfluous ones! They steal the works of the inventors and the treasures of the wise. Culture, they call their theft — and everything becometh sickness and trouble unto them!Just see these superfluous ones! Sick are they always; they vomit their bile and call it a newspaper. They devour one another, and cannot even digest themselves." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Every acquisition, every step forward in knowledge is the result of courage, of severity toward oneself, of cleanliness with respect to oneself." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There is a false saying, ‘Whoever cannot save himself - how can he save others?' But if I have the key to your chains, why should your and my lock be the same." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"And if you gaze for long into an abyss, the abyss gazes also into you." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"My conception of freedom. -- The value of a thing sometimes does not lie in that which one attains by it, but in what one pays for it -- what it costs us. I shall give an example. Liberal institutions cease to be liberal as soon as they are attained: later on, there are no worse and no more thorough injurers of freedom than liberal institutions. Their effects are known well enough: they undermine the will to power; they level mountain and valley, and call that morality; they make men small, cowardly, and hedonistic -- every time it is the herd animal that triumphs with them. Liberalism: in other words, herd-animalization.These same institutions produce quite different effects while they are still being fought for; then they really promote freedom in a powerful way. On closer inspection it is war that produces these effects, the war for liberal institutions, which, as a war, permits illiberal instincts to continue. And war educates for freedom. For what is freedom? That one has the will to assume responsibility for oneself. That one maintains the distance which separates us. That one becomes more indifferent to difficulties, hardships, privation, even to life itself. That one is prepared to sacrifice human beings for one's cause, not excluding oneself. Freedom means that the manly instincts which delight in war and victory dominate over other instincts, for example, over those of ""pleasure."" The human being who has become free -- and how much more the spirit who has become free -- spits on the contemptible type of well-being dreamed of by shopkeepers, Christians, cows, females, Englishmen, and other democrats. The free man is a warrior. How is freedom measured in individuals and peoples? According to the resistance which must be overcome, according to the exertion required, to remain on top. The highest type of free men should be sought where the highest resistance is constantly overcome: five steps from tyranny, close to the threshold of the danger of servitude. This is true psychologically if by ""tyrants"" are meant inexorable and fearful instincts that provoke the maximum of authority and discipline against themselves; most beautiful type: Julius Caesar. This is true politically too; one need only go through history. The peoples who had some value, who attained some value, never attained it under liberal institutions: it was great danger that made something of them that merits respect. Danger alone acquaints us with our own resources, our virtues, our armor and weapons, our spirit, and forces us to be strong. First principle: one must need to be strong -- otherwise one will never become strong. Those large hothouses for the strong -- for the strongest kind of human being that has so far been known -- the aristocratic commonwealths of the type of Rome or Venice, understood freedom exactly in the sense in which I understand it: as something one has and does not have, something one wants, something one conquers" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There is one path in the world that none can walk but you. Where does it lead? Don't ask, walk!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"[T]he mob is the most ruthless of tyrants;" -Friedrich Nietzsche
". - In the glorification of 'work', in the unwearied talk of the 'blessing of work', I see the same covert idea as in the praise of useful impersonal actions: that of fear of everything individual. Fundamentally, one now feels at the sight of work - one always means by work that hard industriousness from early till late - that such work is the best policeman, that it keeps everyone in bounds and can mightily hinder the development of reason, covetousness, desire for independence. For it uses up an extraordinary amount of nervous energy, which is thus denied to reflection, brooding, dreaming, worrying, loving, hating; it sets a small goal always in sight and guarantees easy and regular satisfactions. Thus a society in which there is continual hard work will have more security: and security is now worshipped as the supreme divinity. - And now! Horror! Precisely the 'worker' has become ! The place is swarming with 'dangerous individuals'! And behind them the danger of dangers -  individual!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I deny morality as I deny alchemy." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is disgraceful for a philosopher to say: the good and the beautiful are one; if he adds 'also the true', one ought to beat him. Truth is ugly. We possess art lest we perish of the truth." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"He who does not lie does not know what truth is." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Do you love tragedies and everything that breaks the heart?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Todo el que disfruta cree que lo que importa del árbol es el fruto, cuando en realidad es la semilla.He aquí la diferencia entre los que creen y los que disfrutan." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When a hundred men stand together, each of them loses his mind and gets another one." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What is life? Life - that is: continually shedding something that wants to die. Life - that is: being cruel and inexorable against everything about us that is growing old and weak -and not only about us. Life - that is, then: being without reverence for those who are dying, who are wretched, who are ancient? Constantly being a murderer? -And yet old Moses said: ""Thou shalt not kill." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"تقول 'أنا'، وتشعر بالفخر لهذه الكلمة، لكن ما هو أعظم هو ذلك الذي لا تريد أن تؤمن به، جسدك وعقله الكبير: ذلك العقل لا يقول 'أنا'، بل يفعل 'أنا'ا" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The tension of the soul in unhappiness, which cultivates its strength; its horror at the sight of the great destruction; its inventiveness and bravery in bearing, enduring, interpreting, exploiting unhappiness, and whatever in the way of depth, mystery, mask, spirit, cleverness, greatness the heart has been granted - has it not been granted them through suffering, through the discipline of great suffering?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Every habit makes our hand more witty, and out wit more handy." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"With hard men intimacy is a thing of shame- and something precious." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Democracy represents the disbelief in all great men and in all elite societies: everybody is everybody else's equal, 'At bottom we are all herd and mob." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Man will desire oblivion rather than not desire at all." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"You shall love beyond yourselves some day! So first, learn to love. And for that you have to drink the bitter cup of your love." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Altered opinions do not alter a man's character (or do so very little); but they do illuminate individual aspects of the constellation of his personality which with a different constellation of opinions had hitherto remained dark and unrecognizable." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"This woman is beautiful and clever: but how much cleverer she would have become if she were not beautiful!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"All beings so far have created something beyond themselves; and do you want to be the ebb of this great flood and even go back to the beasts rather than overcome man? What is the ape to man? A laughingstock or a painful embarrassment. And man shall be just that for the overman: a laughingstock or a painful embarrassment…" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"But the thought is one thing, the deed is another, and another yet is the image of the deed. The wheel of causality does not roll between them." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Every select man strives instinctively for a citadel and a privacy, where he is FREE from the crowd, the many, the majority-- where he may forget ""men who are the rule,"" as their exception;-- exclusive only of the case in which he is pushed straight to such men by a still stronger instinct, as a discerner in the great and exceptional sense." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Now and then, in philosophers or artists, one finds a passionate and exaggerated worship of 'pure forms': no one should doubt that a person who so needs the surface must once have made an unfortunate grab underneath it. Perhaps these burnt children, the born artists who find their only joy in trying to falsify life's images (as if taking protracted revenge against it-), perhaps they may even belong to a hierarchy: we could tell the degree to which they are sick of life by how much they wish to see its image adulterated, diluted, transcendentalized, apotheosized- we could count the homines religiosi among the artists, as their highest class." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I attack only things that are triumphant — if necessary, I wait until they become triumphant." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"My melancholy wants to rest in the hiding places and abysses of perfection: that is why I need music." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"All modern philosophizing is political, policed by governments, churches, academics, custom, fashion, and human cowardice, all of which limit it to a fake learnedness." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Foolish is my happiness, and foolish things will it speak: it is still too young—so have patience with it!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Man is no longer an artist, he has become a work of art." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The spirit now wills his own will, and he who had been lost to the world now conquers the world." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Anyone who manages to experience the history of humanity as a whole as his own history will feel in an enormously generalized way all the grief of an invalid who thinks of health, of an old man who thinks of the dream of his youth, of a lover deprived of his beloved, of the martyr whose ideal is perishing, of the hero on the evening after a battle that has decided nothing but brought him wounds and the loss of his friend. But if one endured, if one could endure this immense sum of grief of all kinds while yet being the hero who, as the second day of battle breaks, welcomes the dawn and his fortune, being a person whose horizon encompasses thousands of years, past and future, being the heir of all the nobility of all past spirit - an heir with a sense of obligation, the most aristocratic of old nobles and at the same time the first of a new nobility - the like of which no age has yet seen or dreamed of; if one could burden one's soul with all of this - the oldest, the newest, losses, hopes, conquests, and the victories of humanity; if one could finally contain all this in one soul and crowd it into a single feeling - this would surely have to result in a happiness that humanity has not known so far: the happiness of a god full of power and love, full of tears and laughter, a happiness that, like the sun in the evening, continually bestows its inexhaustible riches, pouring them into the sea, feeling richest, as the sun does, only when even the poorest fishermen is still rowing with golden oars! This godlike feeling would then be called - humaneness." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Out of life's school of war: What does not destroy me, makes me stronger." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"the process of evolution does not necessarily mean elevation, enhancement, strengthening." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"That is an artist as I love artists, modest in his needs: he really wants only two things, his bread and his art - panem et Circen." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Language can never adequately render the cosmic symbolism of music, because music stands in symbolic relation to the primordial contradiction and primordial pain in the heart of the primal unity, and therefore symbolizes a sphere which is beyond and prior to all phenomena. Rather, all phenomena, compared with it, are merely symbols: hence language, as the organ and symbol of phenomena, can never by any means disclose the innermost heart of music; language, in its attempt to imitate it, can only be in superficial contact with music; while all the eloquence of lyric poetry cannot bring the deepest significance of the latter one step nearer to us." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It was suffering and incapacity that created all afterworlds - this, and that brief madness of bliss which is experienced only by those who suffer deeply. Weariness that wants to reach the ultimate with one leap, with one fatal leap, a poor ignorant weariness that does not want to want any more: this created all gods and afterworlds." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Whatever they may think and say about their ""egoism"", the great majority nonetheless do nothing for their ego their whole life long: what they do is done for the phantom of their ego which has formed itself in the heads of those around them and has been communicated to them." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"People have always wanted to 'improve' human beings; for the most part, this has been called morality." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I would only believe in a God that wold know how to dance." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Great intellects are skeptical." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"...'I suffer: someone or other must be guilty' – and every sick sheep thinks the same." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The craving for equality can express itself either as a desire to pull everyone down to our own level (by belittling them, excluding them, tripping them up) or as a desire to raise ourselves up along with everyone else (by acknowledging them, helping them, and rejoicing in their success)." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The believer in magic and miracles reflects on how to impose a law on nature--: and, in brief, the religious cult is the outcome of this reflection." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The good men of every age are those who go to the roots of the old thoughts and bear fruit with them." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To live with tremendous and proud composure; always beyond —. To have and not to have one's affects, one's pro and con, at will; to condescend to them, for a few hours; to  oneself on them as on a horse, often as on an ass — for one must know how to make use of their stupidity as much as of their fire. To reserve one's three hundred foregrounds; also the dark glasses; for there are cases when nobody may look into our eyes, still less into our ""grounds."" And to choose for company that impish and cheerful vice, courtesy. And to remain master of one's four virtues: of courage, insight, sympathy, and solitude." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I would not know what the spirit of a philosopher might wish more to be than a good dancer." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A promise to love someone forever, then, means, 'As long as I love you I will render unto you the actions of love; if I no longer love you, you will continue to receive the same actions from me, if for other motives.' Thus the illusion remains in the minds of one's fellow men that the love is unchanged and still the same." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"العار، العار، العار .. ذلك هو تاريخ الإنسان." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We do not belong to those who have ideas only among books, when stimulated by books. It is our habit to think outdoors - walking, leaping, climbing, dancing, preferably on lonely mountains or near the sea where even the trails become thoughtful." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One not only wants to be understood when one writes, but also quite as certainly not to be understood. It is by no means an objection to a book when someone finds it unintelligible: perhaps this might just have been the intention of its author, perhaps he did not want to be understood by ""anyone'. A distinguished intellect and taste, when it wants to communicate its thoughts, always selects its hearers; by selecting them, it at the same time closes its barriers against ""the others"". It is there that all the more refined laws of style have their origin: they at the same time keep off, they create distance, they prevent ""access"" (intelligibility, as we have said,) while they open the ears of those who are acoustically related to them." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Life is at an end where the kingdom of God begins" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Life is hard to bear: but do not pretend to be so delicate!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Nobody is more inferior than those who insist on being equal ." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There's no defense against stupidity." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One should not go into churches if one wishes to breathe pure air." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"إذ الإنسان يفضل أن يريد اللاشيء على لأن لا يريد شيئاً" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Truth as Circe. - Error has transformed animals into men; is truth perhaps capable of changing man back into an animal?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I and me are always too deeply in conversation." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is always as it was between Achilles and Homer: one person has the experience, the sensation, the other  it. A real writer only gives words to the affects and experiences of others; he is an artist in divining a great deal from the little that he has felt. Artist are by no means people of great passion, but they frequently  themselves as such, unconsciously sensing that others give greater credence to the passions they portray if the artist's own life testifies to his experience in this area. We need only let ourselves go, not control ourselves, give free play to our wrath or our desire, and the whole world immediately cries: how passionate he is! But there really is something significant in a deeply gnawing passion that consumes and often swallows up an individual: whoever experiences this surely does not describe it in dramas, music, or novels. Artists are frequently  individuals, insofar, that is, as they are not artists: but that is something different." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Women can form a friendship with a man very well; but to preserve it, a slight physical antipathy most probably helps." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I might believe in the Redeemer if his followers looked more redeemed." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"For man to be redeemed from revenge, that is for me the bridge to the highest hope, and a rainbow after long storms.Distrust all in whom the impulse to punish is powerful!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"as though ""the Truth"" were such an innocent and incompetent creature as to require protectors!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"كل ما في الدنيا كذب في كذب ,أنا الحقيقه الوحيده ,أنا حقيقتي المؤكده" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The strongest intimidation, by the way, is the invention of a hereafter with a hell everlasting." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Loneliness is one thing, solitude another: you have learned  - now!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"philosophy is not suited for the masses, what they need is holiness." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Behold, I bring you the Superman! The Superman is the meaning of the earth. Let your will say: The Superman shall be the meaning of the earth! I beg of you my brothers, remain true to the earth, and believe not those who speak to you of otherworldly hopes! Poisoners are they, whether they know it or not. Despisers of life are they, decaying ones and poisoned ones themselves, of whom the earth is weary: so away with them!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A: So you intend to return to your desert?B: I am not quick moving. I have to wait for myself— it is always late before the water comes to light out of the well of my self, and I often have to endure thirst for longer than I have patience. That is why I go into solitude— so as not to drink out of everybody's cistern. When I am among the many I live as the many do, and I do not think as I really think; after a time it always seems as though they want to banish me from myself and rob me of my soul— and I grow angry with everybody and fear everybody. I then require the desert, so as to grow good again." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Some cannot loosen their own chains and can nonetheless redeem their friends." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The worst mutilation of man that can be imagined presented as the ""good man""." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Life has not been devised by morality: it wants deception, it lives on deception." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When one has much to put in them, a day has a thousand pockets." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What? A great man? I always see merely the play-actor of his own ideal." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"He whom the flame of jealousy encompasses, will at last, like the scorpion, turn the poisoned sting against himself." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I want to speak to the despisers of the body. I would not have them learn and teach differently, but merely say farewell to their own bodies-- and thus become silent." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"They devour each other and cannot even digest themselves." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"They would have to sing better songs for me to learn to have faith in their Redeemer; and his disciples would have to look more redeemed!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Brave and creative men never consider pleasure and pain as ultimate values—they are epiphenomena: one must desire both if one is to achieve anything." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What has shaken me is not that you lied to me, but that I no longer believe you." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"He who is punished is never he who performed the deed. He is always the scapegoat." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Discovering that one is loved in return really ought to disenchant the lover with the beloved. 'What? this person is modest enough to love even you? Or stupid enough? Or-or-" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There are many kinds of eyes. Even the sphinx has eyes - and consequently there are many kinds of 'truths,' and consequently there is no truth" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Visiting the sick' is an orgasm of superiority in the contemplation of our neighbor's helplessness" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The wittiest authors raise the very slightest of smiles." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"الحلم وقد أسىء فهمه: إن أصل كل ميتا فيزيقا هو كون الإنسان، فى الأزمنة الأولى لحضارة لما تزل بدائية، قد اعتقد أنه اكتشف فى الحلم عالما حقيقيا ثانيا. لولا الحلم لما وجد الناس أدنى سبب لتقسيم العالم إلى قسمين. إن انفصال الروح والجسد يرتبط هو كذلك بأقدم تصور للحلم تماما مثل فرضية صورة جسدية للروح، كما يرتبط به إجمالا أصل كل اعتقاد فى الأرواح، وربما أصل الإيمان بالآلهة. ""إن الميت يظل حيا، لأنه يظهر للأحياء فى الحلم."": هذا هو الاستدلال الذى ساد فيما مضى طيلة ألفيات." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"عبارة ""العقل الحر"" لا يمكن أن تفهم هنا إلا بهذا المعنى: إنه عقل محرر قد استعاد تملكه بذاته" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Wir haben die Kunst, damit wir nicht an der Wahrheit zugrunde gehen." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Can you give yourself your own evil and your own good and hang your own will over yourself as a law? Can you be your own judge and avenger of your law? Terrible it is to be alone with the judge and avenger of one's own law. Thus is a star thrown out into the void and into the icy breath of solitude. Today you are still suffering from the many being one: today your courage and your hopes are still whole. But the time will come when solitude will make you weary, when your pride will double up and your courage gnash its teeth. And you will cry, ""I am alone!"" The time will come when that which seems high to you will no longer be in sight, and that which seems low will be all-too-near; even what seems sublime to you will frighten you like a ghost And you will cry, ""All is false!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Have you ever heard of the madman who on a bright morning lighted a lantern and ran to the market-place calling out unceasingly: ""I seek God! I seek God!""—As there were many people standing about who did not believe in God, he caused a great deal of amusement. Why! is he lost? said one. Has he strayed away like a child? said another. Or does he keep himself hidden? Is he afraid of us? Has he taken a sea-voyage? Has he emigrated?—the people cried out laughingly, all in a hubbub. The insane man jumped into their midst and transfixed them with his glances. ""Where is God gone?"" he called out. ""I mean to tell you! We have killed him,—you and I! We are all his murderers! But how have we done it? How were we able to drink up the sea? Who gave us the sponge to wipe away the whole horizon? What did we do when we loosened this earth from its sun? Whither does it now move? Whither do we move? Away from all suns? Do we not dash on unceasingly? Back-wards, sideways, forewards, in all directions? Is there still an above and below? Do we not stray, as through infinite nothingness? Does not empty space breathe upon us? Has it not become colder? Does not night come on continually, darker and darker? Shall we not have to light lanterns in the morning? Do we not hear the noise of the grave-diggers who are burying God? Do we not smell the divine putrefaction?—for even Gods putrefy! God is dead! God remains dead! And we have killed him! How shall we console ourselves, the most murderous of all murderers? The holiest and the mightiest that the world has hitherto possessed, has bled to death under our knife,—who will wipe the blood from us? With what water could we cleanse ourselves? What lustrums, what sacred games shall we have to devise? Is not the magnitude of this deed too great for us? Shall we not ourselves have to become Gods, merely to seem worthy of it? There never was a greater event,—and on account of it, all who are born after us belong to a higher history than any history hitherto!""—Here the madman was silent and looked again at his hearers; they also were silent and looked at him in surprise. At last he threw his lantern on the ground, so that it broke in pieces and was extinguished. ""I come too early,"" he then said, ""I am not yet at the right time. This prodigious event is still on its way, and is travelling,—it has not yet reached men's ears. Lightning and thunder need time, the light of the stars needs time, deeds need time, even after they are done, to be seen and heard. This deed is as yet further from them than the furthest star,—and yet they have done it!""—It is further stated that the madman made his way into different churches on the same day, and there intoned his Requiem æternam deo. When led out and called to account, he always gave the reply: ""What are these churches now, if they are not the tombs and monuments of God?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"For others do I wait...for higher ones, stronger ones, more triumphant ones, merrier ones, for such as are built squarely in body and soul: laughing lions must come." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Even when in the deepest distress, the actor ultimately cannot cease to think of the impression he and the whole scenic effect is making, even for example at the burial of his own child; he will weep over his own distress and the ways in which it expresses itself, as his own audience. The hypocrite who always plays one and the same role finally ceases to be a hypocrite; for example priests, who as young men are usually conscious or unconscious hypocrites, finally become natural and then really are priests without any affectation; or if the father fails to get that far then perhaps the son does so, employing his father's start and inheriting his habits. If someone obstinately and for a long time wants to appear  it is int he end hard for him to  anything else. The profession of almost every man, even that of the artist, begins with hypocrisy, with an imitation from without, with a copying of what is most effective. He who is always wearing a mask of a friendly countenance must finally acquire a power over benevolent moods without which the impression of friendliness cannot be obtained - and finally these acquire power over him, he is benevolent." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"You say it is the good cause that hallows even war? I say unto you: it is the good war that hallows any cause. War and courage have accomplished more great things than love of the neighbor. Not your pity but your courage has so far saved the unfortunate." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In solitude the solitary man consumes himself, in the crowd the crowd consumes him." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"But grant me from time to time—if there are divine goddesses in the realm beyond good and evil—grant me the sight, but  glance of something perfect, wholly achieved, happy, mighty, triumphant, something still capable of arousing fear! Of a man who justifies , of a complementary and redeeming lucky hit on the part of man for the sake of which one may still " -Friedrich Nietzsche
"دولت نام سردترین هیولاهای سرد است و به سردی دروغ می گوید، و این دروغ از دهانش برون می خزد که «منِ دولت، همان ملتم.»" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"How can man know himself? It is a dark, mysterious business: if a hare has seven skins, a man may skin himself seventy times seven times without being able to say, 'Now that is truly you; that is no longer your outside.' It is also an agonizing, hazardous undertaking thus to dig into oneself, to climb down toughly and directly into the tunnels of one's being. How easy it is thereby to give oneself such injuries as no doctor can heal. Moreover, why should it even be necessary given that everything bears witness to our being — our friendships and animosities, our glances and handshakes, our memories and all that we forget, our books as well as our pens. For the most important inquiry, however, there is a method. Let the young soul survey its own life with a view of the following question: 'What have you truly loved thus far? What has ever uplifted your soul, what has dominated and delighted it at the same time?' Assemble these revered objects in a row before you and perhaps they will reveal a law by their nature and their order: the fundamental law of your very self. Compare these objects, see how they complement, enlarge, outdo, transfigure one another; how they form a ladder on whose steps you have been climbing up to yourself so far; for your true self does not lie buried deep within you, but rather rises immeasurably high above you, or at least above what you commonly take to be your I." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Society tames the wolf into a dog. And man is the most domesticated animal of all." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"From the sun did I learn this, when it goeth down, the exuberant one: gold doth it then pour into the sea, out of inexhaustible riches, -So that the poorest fisherman roweth even with golden oars! For this did I once see, and did not tire of weeping in beholding it. - Like the sun will also Zarathustra go down: now sitteth he here and waiteth, old broken tables around him, and also new tables half-written." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"we often refuse to accept an idea merely because the way in which it has been expressed is unsympathetic to us." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Do I advise you to love thy neighbor? I suggest rather to escape from thy neighbor and to love those who are the farthest away from you. Higher than the love for thy neighbor is the love for the man who is distant and has still to come." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Everything straight lies,' murmured the dwarf disdainfully. 'All truth is crooked, time itself is a circle." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The bite of conscience is indecent." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Is the world really beautified by the fact that man thinks it beautiful? He has humanized it, that is all." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"whatever is profound loves masks; what is most profound even hates image and parable." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A little wisdom is indeed possible; but this blessed security have I found in all things, that they prefer--to DANCE on the feet of chance." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One who cannot leave himself behind on the threshold of the moment and forget the past, who cannot stand on a single point, like a goddess of victory, without fear or giddiness, will never know what happiness is; and, worse still, will never do anything that makes others happy." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A virtue must be our invention; it must spring out of our personal need and defence." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What do you think, you Higher Men? Am I a prophet? A dreamer? A drunkard? An interpreter of dreams? A midnight bell? A drop of dew? An odour and scent of eternity? Do you not hear it? Do you not smell it? My world has just become perfect, midnight is also noonday, pain is also joy, a curse is also a blessing, the night is also a sun – be gone, or you will learn: a wise man is also a fool. Did you ever say Yes to one joy? O my friends, then you said Yes to all woe as well. All things are chained and entwined together, all things are in love; if ever you wanted one moment twice, if ever you said: ‘You please me, happiness, instant, moment!' then you wanted everything to return! you wanted everything anew, everything eternal, everything chained, entwined together, everything in love, O that is how you loved the world, you everlasting men, loved it eternally and for all time: and you say even to woe:' Go, but return!' For all joy wants -eternity!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Close the Bible and open the Manu Smriti. It has an affirmation of life, a triumphing agreeable sensation in life and that to draw up a lawbook such as Manu means to permit oneself to get the upper hand, to become perfection, to be ambitious of the highest art of living." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We have to be careful that in throwing out the devil, we don't throw out the best part of ourselves." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"They fear their higher self, because when it speaks, it speaks demandingly." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Everything in woman is a riddle, and everything in womanhath one solution —it is called pregnancy.Man is for woman a means: the purpose is always thechild. But what is woman for man?Two different things wanted the true man: danger anddiversion. Therefore wanted he woman, as the most dangerous plaything.Man shall be trained for war, and woman for the recreation of the warrior: all else is folly.Too sweet fruits—these the warrior like not. Therefore like he woman;—bitter is even the sweetest woman.Better than man doth woman understand children, butman is more childish than woman.In the true man there is a child hidden: it wanted toplay. Up then, ye women, and discover the child in man!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When the oppressed, downtrodden, outraged exhort one another with the vengeful cunning of impotence: ""let us be different from the evil, namely good! And he is good who does not outrage, who harms nobody, who does not attack, who does not requite, who leaves revenge to God, who keeps himself hidden as we do, who avoids evil and desires little from life, like us, the patient, humble, and just"" -- this, listened to calmly and without previous bias, really amounts to no more than: ""we weak ones are, after all, weak; it would be good if we did nothing for which we are not strong enough""; but this dry matter of fact, this prudence of the lowest order which even insects possess (popsing as dead, when in great danger, so as not to do ""too much""), has, thanks to counterfeit and self-deception of impotence, clad itself in the ostentatious garb of the virtue of quiet, calm resignation, just as if the weakness of the weak -- that is to say, their essence, their effects, their sole ineluctable, irremovable reality - were a voluntary achievement, willed, chosen, a deed, a meritous act." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We are noble, good, beautiful, and happy!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Beauty is for the artist something outside all orders of rank, because in beauty opposites are tamed; the highest sign of power, namely power over opposites; moreover, without tension: – that violence is no longer needed: that everything follows, obeys, so easily and so pleasantly – that is what delights the artist's WILL TO POWER." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One has to test oneself to see that one is destined for independence and command—and do it at the right time. One should not dodge one's tests, though they may be the most dangerous game one could play and are tests that are taken in the end before no witness or judge but ourselves. Not to remain stuck to a person—not even the most loved—every person is a prison, also a nook.Not to remain stuck to a fatherland—not even if it suffers most and needs help most—it is less difficult to sever one's heart from a victorious fatherland. Not to remain stuck to some pity—not even for higher men into whose rare torture and helplessness some accident allowed us to look.Not to remain stuck to a science—even if it should lure us with the most precious finds that seem to have been saved up precisely for us. Not to remain stuck to one's own detachment, to that voluptuous remoteness and strangeness of the bird who flees ever higher to see ever more below him—the danger of the flier. Not to remain stuck to our own virtues and become as a whole the victim of some detail in us, such as our hospitality, which is the danger of dangers for superior and rich souls who spend themselves lavishly, almost indifferently, and exaggerate the virtue of generosity into a vice. One must know how to conserve oneself: the hardest test of independence." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Convictions are more dangerous enemies of truth than lies." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The perfect woman indulges in literature just as she indulges in a small sin: as an experiment, in passing, looking around to see if anybody notices it — and to make sure that somebody does." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"من بر تقدير خود واقفم: روزى نام من قرين خاطره ى امرى عظيم خواهد شد، خاطره ى بحرانى كه زمين مانندش را به خود نديده، ژرف ترين تصادم وجدان، اراده اى كه ظاهر شد تا بر هر آن چه تاكنون به باور درآمده، مطلوب انگاشته شده، و تقديس گشته بشورد.من انسان نيستم، من ديناميتم!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Nothing is needed more than truth, and in relation to it everything else has only second-rate value.""This unconditional will to truth—what is it? Is it the will not to allow oneself to be deceived? Or is it the will not to deceive? For the will to truth could be interpreted in the second way, too—if only the special case ""I do not want to deceive myself"" is subsumed under the generalization ""I do not want to deceive."" But why not deceive?But why not allow oneself to be deceived?Note that the reasons for the former principle belong to an altogether different realm from those for the second. One does not want to allow oneself to be deceived because one assumes that it is harmful, dangerous, calamitous to be deceived. In this sense, science would be a long-range prudence, a caution, a utility; but one could object in all fairness: How is that? Is wanting not to allow oneself to be deceived really less harmful, less dangerous, less calamitous? What do you know in advance of the character of existence to be able to decide whether the greater advantage is on the side of the unconditionally mistrustful or of the unconditionally trusting?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is much more agreeable to offend and later ask forgiveness than to be offended and grant forgiveness. The one who does the former demonstrates his power and then his goodness. The other, if he does not want to be thought inhuman, must forgive; because of this coercion, pleasure in the other's humiliation is slight." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Books that teach us to dance: There are writers who, by portraying the impossible as possible, and by speaking of morality and genius as if both were high-spirited freedom, as if man were rising up on tiptoe and simply had to dance out of inner pleasure. " -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I call Christianity the one great curse, the one great intrinsic depravity, the one great instinct of revenge, for which no means are venomous enough, or secret, subterranean and small enough – I call it the one immortal blemish upon the human race." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"At this point, I can no longer avoid setting out, in an initial, provisional statement, my own hypothesis about the origin of 'bad conscience.' It is not easy to get people to attend to it, and it requires them to consider it at length, to guard it, and to sleep on it. I consider bad conscience the profound illness which human beings had to come down with, under the pressure of the most fundamental of all the changes which they experienced—that change when they finally found themselves locked within the confines of society and peace. Just like the things water animals must have gone though when they were forced either to become land animals or to die off, so events must have played themselves out with this half-beast so happily adapted to the wilderness, war, wandering around, adventure—suddenly all its instincts were devalued and 'disengaged.'From this point on, these animals were to go on foot and 'carry themselves'; whereas previously they had been supported by the water. A terrible heaviness weighed them down. In performing the simplest things they felt ungainly. In dealing with this new unknown world, they no longer had their old leader, the ruling unconscious drives which guided them safely. These unfortunate creatures were reduced to thinking, inferring, calculating, bringing together cause and effect, reduced to their 'consciousness,' their most impoverished and error-prone organ! I believe that on earth there has never been such a feeling of misery, such a leaden discomfort—while at the same time those old instincts had not all at once stopped imposing their demands! Only it was difficult and seldom possible to do their bidding. For the most part, they had to find new and, as it were, underground satisfactions for them." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When virtue has slept, it will arise again all the fresher." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"He who fights with monsters should look to it that he himself does not become a monster. And when you gaze long into an abyss the abyss also gazes into you." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Often they descended to their grave with an ironic smile – for what was there left of them to bury! Only the dross, refuse, vanity, animality that had always weighed them down and that was now consigned to oblivion after having for long been the object of their contempt. But one thing will live, the monogram of their most essential being, a work, an act, a piece of rare enlightenment, a creation: it will live because posterity cannot do without it. In this transfigured form, fame is something more than the tastiest morsel of our egoism, as Schopenhauer called it: it is the belief in the solidarity and continuity of the greatness of all ages and a protest against the passing away of generations and the transitoriness of things." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I would prefer to be a satyr rather than a saint." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Morality negates life." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Knowledge kills action, for action requires a state of being in which we are covered with the veil of illusion." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The people told me, however, that the big ear was not only a man, but a great man, a genius. But I never believed in the people when they spake of great men - and I hold to my belief that it was a reversed cripple, who had too little of everything, and too much of one thing." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The great epochs of life come when we gain the courage to re-christen our evil as what is best in us" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"For the true poet the metaphor is not a rhetorical figure but a representative image that really hovers before him in place of a concept. For him, the character is not a whole laboriously assembled from individual traits, but a person, insistently living before his eyes, distinguished from the otherwise identical vision of the painter by his continuous life and action." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is not enough that you understand in what ignorance man and beast live; you must also have and acquire the will to ignorance. You need to grasp that without this kind of ignorance life itself would be impossible, that it is a condition under which alone the living thing can preserve itself and prosper: a great, firm dome of ignorance must encompass you." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Psychology has falsified love as surrender and altruism, while it is an appropriation or a bestowal following from a super-abundance of personality. Only the most complete persons can love. The depersonalized and objective are the worst lovers." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The discipline of suffering, of great suffering—know ye not that it is only this discipline that has produced all the elevations of humanity hitherto? The tension of soul in misfortune which communicates to it its energy, its shuddering in view of rack and ruin, its inventiveness and bravery in undergoing, enduring, interpreting, and exploiting misfortune, and whatever depth, mystery, disguise, spirit, artifice, or greatness has been bestowed upon the soul—has it not been bestowed through suffering?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Why are we not satisfied when life mirrors itself peacefully in a deep lake? …How seldom do we now meet a person who can keep living so peacefully and cheerfully with himself even amidst the turmoil, saying to himself like Goethe: ‘The best is the deep quiet in which I live and grow against the world, and harvest what they cannot take from me by fire or sword." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When thou goest to woman, take thy whip." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Every culture that has lost myth has lost, by the same token, its natural healthy creativity. Only a horizon ringed about with myths can unify a culture. The forces of imagination and the Apollonian dream are saved only by myth from indiscriminate rambling. The images of myth must be the daemonic guardians, ubiquitous but unnoticed, presiding over the growth of the child's mind and interpreting to the mature man his life and struggles." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Consider the cattle, grazing as they pass you by: they do not know what is meant by yesterday or today, they leap about, eat, rest, digest, leap about again, and so from morn till night and from day to day, fettered to the moment and its pleasure or displeasure, and thus neither melancholy nor bored. This is a hard sight for man to see; for, though he thinks himself better than the animals because he is human, he cannot help envying them their happiness – what they have, a life neither bored nor painful, is precisely what he wants, yet he cannot have it because he refuses to be like an animal…[Man] also wonders at himself, that he cannot learn to forget but clings relentlessly to the past: however far and fast he may run, this chain runs with him. And it is a matter for wonder: a moment, now here and then gone, nothing before it came, again nothing after it has gone, nonetheless returns as a ghost and disturbs the peace of a later moment. A leaf flutters from the scroll of time, floats away – and suddenly floats back again and falls into the man's lap. Then the man says ‘I remember' and envies the animal, who at once forgets and for whom every moment really dies, sinks back into night and fog and is extinguished forever." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Pain is not seen as an objection to life: 'If you have no happiness left to give me, well then! you still have your pain..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"All great artists and thinkers are great workers." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The most basic form of human stupidity is forgetting what we are trying to accomplish." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"And while I shall keep silent about some points, I do not want to remain silent about my morality which says to me: Live in seclusion so that you  live for yourself. Live in ignorance about what seems most important to your age. Between yourself and today lay the skin of at least three centuries. And the clamor of today, the noise of wars and revolutions should be a mere murmur for you." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Light for some time to come will have to be called darkness." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Writers whose thoughts are expressed with clarity and precision are assumed by readers to be superficial. Where the meaning is obscured, then readers give more attention and consider the fruit of their labour more valuable" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"[339] Vita femina. To see the ultimate beauties in a work-all knowledge and good-will is not enough; it requires the rarest, good chance for the veil of clouds to move for once from the summits, and for the sun to shine on them. We must not only stand at precisely the right place to see this, our very soul itself must have pulled away the veil from its heights, and must be in need of an external expression and simile, so as to have a hold and remain master of itself. All these, however, are so rarely united at the same time that I am inclined to believe that the highest summit of all that is good, be it work, deed, man, or nature, has hitherto remained for most people, and even for the best, as something concealed and shrouded-that, however, which unveils itself to us, unveils itself to us but once. The Greeks indeed prayed: ""Twice and thrice, everything beautiful!"" Ah, they had their good reason to call on the Gods, for ungodly actuality does not furnish us with the beautiful at all, or only does so once! I mean to say that the world is overfull of beautiful things, but it is nevertheless poor, very poor, in beautiful moments, and in the unveiling of those beautiful things. But perhaps this is the greatest charm of life: it puts a gold- embroidered veil of lovely potentialities over itself, promising, resisting, modest, mocking, sympathetic, seductive. Yes, life is a woman!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The familiarity of superiors embitters one, because it may not be returned." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Anarchists are mouthpieces of a declining stratum of society; when they work themselves into a state of righteous indignation demanding 'rights', 'justice', 'equal rights', they are just acting under the pressure of their own lack of culture, which has no way of grasping why they really suffer, or what they lack in life." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"But how can we venture to reprove or praise the universe! Let us beware of attributing to it heartlessness and unreason or their opposites: it is neither perfect nor beautiful nor noble, and has no desire to become any of these; it is by no means striving to imitate mankind! It is quite impervious to all our aesthetic and moral judgments! It has likewise no impulse to self-preservation or impulses of any kind; neither does it know any laws. Let us beware of saying there are laws in nature. There are only necessities: there is no one to command, no one to obey, no one to transgress..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"But there is no such substratum; there is no ""being"" behind doing, effecting, becoming; ""the doer"" is merely a fiction added to the deed-the deed is everything." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To live is to suffer,to survive is to find some meaning in the suffering" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Slow is the experience of all deep fountains: long have they to wait until they know what has fallen into their depths." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A full and powerful soul not only copes with painful even terrible losses, deprivations, robberies, insults; it emerges from such hells with a greater fullness and powerfulness, and most essential of all with a new increase in the bliss-Fulness of love.I believe that he who has divined something of the most basic conditions for his growth in love will understand what Dante meant when he wrote over the gate of his inferno: 'I, too, was created by eternal love." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"از کسی که کتابخانه دارد و کتاب های زیادی می خواند نباید هراسید؛از کسی باید ترسید که تنها یک کتاب دارد .و آن را مقدس می شمارد ولی هرگز آن را نخوانده است" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"New struggles. -- After Buddha was dead, they still showed his shadow in a cave for centuries -- a colossal, horrible shadow. God is dead, but given the way people are, there may still be caves for millennia in which his shadow is displayed. -- And we -- we must still defeat his shadow as well!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Write with blood, and you will find that blood is spirit." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"This eternal accusation against Christianity I shall write upon all walls, wherever walls are to be found--I have letters that even the blind will be able to see. . . . I call Christianity the one great curse, the one great intrinsic depravity, the one great instinct of revenge, for which no means are venomous enough, or secret, subterranean and small enough,--I call it the one immortal blemish upon the human race..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Human existence basically is──a never to be completed imperfect tense." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We like to be out in nature so much because it has no opinion about us." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Your bad love of yourselves makes solitude a prison to you." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"How much blood and horror is at the bottom of all 'good things'!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Those who have abandoned God cling that much more firmly to the faith in morality." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In some remote corner of the universe, poured out and glittering in innumerable solar systems, there once was a star on which clever animals invented knowledge. That was the highest and most mendacious minute of 'world history' — yet only a minute. After nature had drawn a few breaths the star grew cold, and the clever animals had to die.One might invent such a fable and still not have illustrated sufficiently how wretched, how shadowy and flighty, how aimless and arbitrary, the human intellect appears in nature. There have been eternities when it did not exist; and when it is done for again, nothing will have happened. For this intellect has no further mission that would lead beyond human life. It is human, rather, and only its owner and producer gives it such importance, as if the world pivoted around it. But if we could communicate with the mosquito, then we would learn that he floats through the air with the same self-importance, feeling within itself the flying center of the world. There is nothing in nature so despicable or insignificant that it cannot immediately be blown up like a bag by a slight breath of this power of knowledge; and just as every porter wants an admirer, the proudest human being, the philosopher, thinks that he sees on the eyes of the universe telescopically focused from all sides on his actions and thoughts." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One is necessary, one is a piece of fate, one belongs to the whole, one is the whole – there exists nothing which could judge, measure, compare, condemn our being, for that would be to judge, measure, compare, condemn the whole…But nothing exists apart from the whole!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The greatest events- they are not noisiest but our stillest hours. The world revolves, not around the inventors of new noises, but around the inventors of new values; it revolves inaudibly." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One must have a good memory to be able to keep the promises one has given. One must have strong powers of imagination to be able to have pity. So closely is morality bound to the quality of the intellect." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The feelings of devotion, self-sacrifice for one's neighbor, the whole morality of self-denial must be questioned mercilessly and taken to court.... There is too much charm and sugar in these feelings of 'for others,' 'not for myself,' for us not to need to become doubly suspicious at this point and to ask: 'are these not perhaps-seductions?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To be incapable of taking one's enemies, one's accidents, even one's misdeeds seriously for very long - that is the sign of strong full natures in whom there is an excess of power to form, to mold, to recuperate and to forget. Mirabeau had no memory for insults and vile actions done to him and was unable to forgive simply because he - forgot. Such a man shakes off with a single shrug the many vermin that eat deep into others." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"How good music and bad reasons sound when one marches against an enemy." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Always look on the bright side of the abyss" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is not their love for men, rather it is the impotence of their love that hinders Christians of today from burning us." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Under the magic of the Dionysian, not only does the bond between man and man lock itself in place once more, but also nature itself, no matter how alienated, hostile, or subjugated, rejoices again in her festival of reconciliation with her prodigal son, man. The earth freely offers up her gifts, and the beasts of prey from the rocks and the desert approach in peace. The wagon of Dionysus is covered with flowers and wreaths; under his yolk stride panthers and tigers." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Life no argument. - We have arranged for ourselves a world in which we can live - by positing bodies, lines, planes, causes and effects, motion and rest, form and content; without these articles of faith nobody now could endure life. But that does not prove them. Life is no argument. The conditions of life might include error." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There is no pre-established harmony between the furtherance of truth and the well-being of mankind." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The majority of men prefer delusion to truth. It soothes. It is easy to grasp. Above all, it fits more snugly than the truth into a universe of false appearances—of complex and irrational phenomena, defectively grasped." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Insight: all evaluation is made from a definite perspective: that of the preservation of the individual, a community, a race, a state, a church, a faith, a culture.--- Because we forget that valuation is always from a perspective, a single individual contains within him a vast confusion of contradictory valuations and consequently of contradictory drives. This is the expression of the diseased condition in man, in contrast to the animals in which all existing instincts answer to quite definite tasks. This contradictory creature has in his nature, however, a great method of acquiring knowledge: he feels many pros and cons, he raises himself to justice---to comprehension beyond esteeming things good and evil. The wisest man would be the one richest in contradictions, who has, as it were, antennae for all types of men---as well as his great moments of grand harmony---a rare accident even in us! A sort of planetary motion---" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We have forsaken the land and gone to sea! We have destroyed the bridge behind us – more so, we have demolished the land behind us! Now, little ship, look out! Beside you is the ocean; it is true, it does not always roar, and at times it lies there like silk and gold and dreams of goodness. But there will be hours when you realize that it is infinite and that there is nothing more awesome than infinity." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I teach you the overman. Man is something that shall be overcome. What have you done to overcome him?... All beings so far have created something beyond themselves; and do you want to be the ebb of this great flood, and even go back to the beasts rather than overcome man? What is ape to man? A laughing stock or painful embarrassment. And man shall be that to overman: a laughingstock or painful embarrassment. You have made your way from worm to man, and much in you is still worm. Once you were apes, and even now, too, man is more ape than any ape... The overman is the meaning of the earth. Let your will say: the overman shall be the meaning of the earth... Man is a rope, tied between beast and overman—a rope over an abyss ... what is great in man is that he is a bridge and not an end." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"He who knows the reader, does nothing for the reader." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Another Christian concept, no less crazy, has passed even more deeply into the tissue of modernity: the concept of the 'equality of souls before God.' This concept furnishes the prototype of all theories of equal rights..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Books for the masses are always bad-smelling books: the odour of little people cling to them." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The belly is the reason why man does not mistake himself for a god." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We have to cease to think, if we refuse to do it in the prison house of language; for we cannot reach further than the doubt which asks whether the limit we see is really a limit." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It was only Christianity, with resentment against life in its foundations, which made sexuality something impure: it threw filth on the beginning, on the prerequisite of our life" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We can destroy only as creators" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is a curious thing that God learned Greek when he wished to turn author--and that he did not learn it better." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Our evaluations. - All actions may be traced back to evaluations, all evaluations are original or adopted - the latter being by far the most common. Why do we adopt them? From fear - that is to say, we consider it more advisable to pretend they are our own - and accustom ourself to this pretense, so that at length it becomes our own nature. Original evaluation: that is to say, to assess a thing according to the extent to which it pleases or displeases us alone and no one else - something excessively rare! But must our evaluation of another, in which there lies motive for our general availing ourselves of his HIS evaluation, at least not proceed from US, be our OWN determination? Yes, but we arrive at it as children, and rarely learn to change our view; most of us are our whole lives long the fools of the way we acquired in childhood of judging our neighbors (their minds, rank, morality, whether they are exemplary or reprehensible) and of finding it necessary to pay homage to their evaluations." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Democracy and free speech are not facets of one gem; democracy and free speech are eternal enemies. But in any battle between an institution and an idea, the idea, in the long run, has the better of it. Here I do not venture into the absurdity of arguing that, as the world wags on, the truth always survives. I believe nothing of the sort. As a matter of fact, it seems to me that an idea that happens to be true—or, more exactly, as near to truth as any human idea can be, and yet remain generally intelligible—it seems to me that such an idea carries a special and often fatal handi cap. The majority of men prefer delusion to truth. It soothes. It is easy to grasp. Above all, it fits more snugly than the truth into a universe of false appearances—of complex and irrational phenomena," -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Just as in the second part of a verse bad poets seek a thought to fit their rhyme, so in the second half of their lives people tend to become more anxious about finding actions, positions, relationships that fit those of their earlier lives, so that everything harmonizes quite well on the surface: but their lives are no longer ruled by a strong thought, and instead, in its place, comes the intention of finding a rhyme." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"If thinking is your fate, revere this fate with divine honour and sacrifice to it the best, the most beloved" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Man is a rope stretched between the animal and the Superman—a rope over an abyss. A dangerous crossing, a dangerous wayfaring, a dangerous looking-back, a dangerous trembling and halting." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Ye shall only have foes to be hated; but not foes to be despised: ye must be proud of your foes." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"My wisdom has accumulated long like a cloud, it becomes stiller and darker. So does all wisdom which shall one day bear lightnings.-" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Thus spoke the devil to me, once on a time: ""Even God has his hell: it is his love for man"". And lately did I hear him say these words: ""God is dead: of his pity for man has God died""." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Tethered heart, free spirit.--If one tethers one's heart severely and imprisons it, one can give one's spirit many liberties." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"إن الألمان مثل النساء، لا نستطيع أن نتخيل أعماقهم فليست لهم أعماق. وهذا ينهي المسألة" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A. Was I ill? Have I got well? Who was my doctor? Can you tell? Oh, my memory is rotten!B. Only now you're truly well. Those are well who have forgotten." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A degree of culture, and assuredly a very high one, is attained when man rises above superstitions and religious notions and fears, and, for instance, no longer believes in guardian angels or in original sin, and has also ceased to talk of the salvation of his soul." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In his heart every man knows quite well that, being unique, he will be in the world only once and that no imaginable chance will for a second time gather together into a unity so strangely variegated an assortment as he is: he knows it but hides it like a bad conscience." -Friedrich Nietzsche
". (tr. Through what is laughable say what is somber.)" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A friend should be a master at guessing and keeping still: you must not want to see everything." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Happiness: being able to forget or, to express in a more learned fashion." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Dante, I think, committed a crude blunder when, with a terror-inspiring ingenuity, he placed above the gateway of his hell the inscription, 'I too was created by eternal love'--at any rate, there would be more justification for placing above the gateway to the Christian Paradise...the inscription 'I too was created by eternal hate'..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"هناك أوثان في هذا العالم أكثر من الحقائق" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"ترنون بأعينكم إلى الأعالي وأنتم تطالبون العُلى، وأنظر إلى الأسفل لأنني في الأعالي من منكم باستطاعته أن يضحك ويكون في الوقت نفسه ساميًا؟  الذي يصعد إلى الجبال الشواهق يضحك من كل مآسي المسرح، ومآسي الحياة" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Every kind of contempt for sex, every impurification of it by means of the concept ""impure"", is the crime par excellence against life--is the real sin against the holy spirit of life" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In belief in what? In love with what? In hope for what?—There's no doubt that these weak people—at some time or another they also want to be the strong people, some day their ""kingdom"" is to arrive—they call it simply ""the kingdom of God"" as I mentioned. People are indeed so humble about everything! Only to experience that, one has to live a long time, beyond death—in fact, people must have an eternal life, so they can also win eternal recompense in the ""kingdom of God"" for that earthly life ""in faith, in love, in hope."" Recompense for what? Recompense through what? In my view, Dante was grossly in error when, with an ingenuity inspiring terror, he set that inscription over the gateway into his hell:""Eternal love also created me."" Over the gateway into the Christian paradise and its ""eternal blessedness"" it would, in any event, be more fitting to let the inscription stand ""Eternal hate also created me""—provided it's all right to set a truth over the gateway to a lie! For what is the bliss of that paradise? Perhaps we might have guessed that already, but it is better for it to be expressly described for us by an authority we cannot underestimate in such matters, Thomas Aquinas, the great teacher and saint: ""In the kingdom of heaven"" he says as gently as a lamb, ""the blessed will see the punishment of the damned, so that they will derive all the more pleasure from their heavenly bliss." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Whoever fights monsters should see to it that in the process he does not become a monster." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Socrates, the dialectical hero of the Platonic drama, reminds us of the kindred nature of the Euripidean hero who must defend his actions with arguments and counterarguments and in the process often risks the loss of our tragic pity; for who could mistake the  element in the nature of the dialectic, which celebrates a triumph with every conclusion and can breathe only in cool clarity and consciousness." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"All good things are powerful stimulants to life, even a good book written against life." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Three metamorphoses of the spirit have I designated to you: how thespirit became a camel, the camel a lion, and the lion at last a child." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Pitch-black winter nights live in my bones." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"أما هناك ف، في الأسفل - الكل يتكلم هناك ، ولا شيء يُسمع . وحتى لو أعلن المرء عن حكمته قرعاً بالأجراس ، فإن بقالي السوق سيغطون على صوته برنين القروش ." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Lo que no te mata te hiere de gravedad y te deja tan apaleado, que luego aceptas cualquier tipo de maltrato y te dices a ti mismo que eso te fortalece." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The tragedy is that we cannot believe the dogmas of religion and metaphysics if we have the strict methods of truth in heart and head, but on the other hand, we have become through the development of humanity so tenderly suffering that we need the highest kind of means of salvation and consolation: whence arises the danger that man may bleed to death through the truth that he realises." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"For fanaticism is the only form of willpower that even the weak and insecure can be brought to attain." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The voice of the Socratic dream vision is the only sign of any misgivings about the limits of logic: Perhaps – thus he might have asked himself – what is not intelligible to me is not necessarily unintelligent? Perhaps there is a realm of wisdom from which the logician is exiled? Perhaps art is even a necessary correlative of, and supplement for science?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The certain prospect of death could sweeten every life with a precious and fragrant drop of levity; and now you strange apothecary souls have turned it into an ill-tasting drop of poison that makes the whole of life repulsive." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Moderation sees itself as beautiful; it is unaware that in the eye of the immoderate it appears black and sober and consequently ugly-looking" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"All that exists is just and unjust and is equally justified in both respects." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Aristotle says that in order to live alone one must either be an animal or a god. The third alternative is lacking. A man must be both; a philosopher." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We love life, not because we are used to living but because we are used to loving." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Alas, where is there still a sea in which one could drown: thus our lament resounds – across shallow swamps. " -Friedrich Nietzsche
"thou great star! what would be thy happiness if thou hadst not those for whom thou shinest!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"If a man has a great deal to put in them, a day will have a hundred pockets." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The sick are the greatest danger for the healthy; it is not from the strongest that harm comes to the strong, but from the weakest." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To make an individual uncomfortable, that is my task." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"That which intoxicates, the sensually ecstatic, the sudden surprise, the urge to be profoundly stirred at any price -- dreadful tendencies!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In truth, nothing could be more opposed to the purely aesthetic interpretation and justification of the world which are taught in this book than the Christian teaching, which is, and wants to be,  moral and which relegates art,  art, to the realm of ; with its absolute standards, beginning with the truthfulness of God, it negates, judges, and damns art." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We possess art lest we perish of the truth." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The noble man wants to create something new and a new virtue. The good want the old, and that old should be preserved." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To leave is to suffer,to survive is to find some meaning in the suffering." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"آن زمان که خوش‌ترین مزه‌ها را داری مگذار تو را تمام بخورند. آنان که می‌خواهند دیرزمانی در دل‌ها جای داشته باشند این را می‌دانند" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We are, all of us, growing volcanoes that approach the hour of their eruption, but how near or distant that is, nobody knows- not even God." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"love as a passion—it is our European specialty—must absolutely be of noble origin; as is well known, its invention is due to the Provencal poet-cavaliers, those brilliant, ingenious men of the ""gai saber,"" to whom Europe owes so much, and almost owes itself." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When one gives up the Christian faith, one pulls the right to Christian morality out from under one's feet... Christianity is a system, a whole view of things thought out together. By breaking one main concept out of it, the faith in God, one breaks the whole: nothing necessary remains in one's hands. Christianity presupposes that man does not know, cannot know, what is good for him, what evil: he believes in God, who alone knows it... it has truth only if God is the truth — it stands and falls with faith in God." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Even a man who makes the most modest pretensions to integrity must know that a theologian, a priest, a pope of today not only errs when he speaks, but actually lies—and that he no longer escapes blame for his lie through 'innocence' or 'ignorance.' The priest knows, as every one knows, that there is no longer any 'God," -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Only great pain is the ultimate liberator of the spirit….I doubt that such pain makes us ‘better'; but I know that it makes us more profound." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Terribleness is part of greatness: let us not deceive ourselves." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In the end I also write slowly. Nowadays it is not only my habit, it is also to my taste - a malicious taste, perhaps? - no longer to write anything which does not reduce to despair every sort of man who is 'in a hurry'. For philology is that venerable art which demands of its votaries one thing above all: to go aside, to take time, to become still, to become slow- it is a goldsmith's art and connoisseurship of the word which has nothing but delicate, cautious work to do and achieves nothing if it does not achieve it Lento. But for precisely this reason it is more necessary than ever today, by precisely this means does it entice and enchant us the most, in the midst of an age of 'work', that is to say, of hurry, of indecent and perspiring haste, which wants to 'get everything done' at once, including every old or new book: - this art does not so easily get anything done, it teaches to read well, that is to say, to read slowly, deeply, looking cautiously before and aft, with reservations, with doors left open, with delicate eyes and fingers ... My patient friends, this book desires for itself only perfect readers and philologists: Learn to read me well!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Whence come the highest mountains? I once asked. Then I learned that they came out of the sea. The evidence is written in their rocks and in the walls of their peaks. It is out of the deepest depth that the highest must come to its height." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"4. The falseness of an opinion is not for us any objection to it: it is here, perhaps, that our new language sounds most strangely. The question is, how far an opinion is life-furthering, life- preserving, species-preserving, perhaps species-rearing, and we are fundamentally inclined to maintain that the falsest opinions (to which the synthetic judgments a priori belong), are the most indispensable to us, that without a recognition of logical fictions, without a comparison of reality with the purely IMAGINED world of the absolute and immutable, without a constant counterfeiting of the world by means of numbers, man could not live—that the renunciation of false opinions would be a renunciation of life, a negation of life. TO RECOGNISE UNTRUTH AS A CONDITION OF LIFE; that is certainly to impugn the traditional ideas of value in a dangerous manner, and a philosophy which ventures to do so, has thereby alone placed itself beyond good and evil." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Sharp and mild, dull and keen,well known and strange, dirty and clean,where both the fool and wise are seen:All this am I, have ever been, -in me dove, snake and swine convene!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A time came when one rubbed one's eyes; one is still rubbing them today." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"This tremendous event is still on its way, still wandering; it has not yet reached the ears of men. Lightning and thunder require time; the light on the stars requires time; deeds though done, still require time to be seen and heard. This deed is still more distant from them than the most distant stars - and yet they have done it themselves." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The recipe for becoming a good novelist, for example is easy to give but to carry it out presupposes qualities one is accustomed to overlook when one says 'I do not have enough talent'. One has only to make a hundred or so sketches for novels, none longer than two pages but of such distinctness that every word in them is necessary; one should write down anecdotes each day until one has learned how to give them the most pregnant and effective form; one should be tireless in collecting and describing human types and characters; one should above all relate things to others and listen to others relate, keeping one's eyes and ears open for the effect produced on those present, one should travel like a landscape painter or costume designer; one should excerpt for oneself out of the individual sciences everything that will produce an artistic effect when it is well described, one should, finally, reflect on the motives of human actions, disdain no signpost to instruction about them and be a collector of these things by day and night. One should continue in this many-sided exercise some ten years: what is then created in the work­shop, however, will be fit to go out into the world. - What, however, do most people do? They begin, not with the parts, but with the whole. Per­haps they chance to strike a right note, excite attention and from then on strike worse and worse notes, for good, natural reasons." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Examine the lives of the best and more fruitful men and peoples, and ask yourselves whether a tree, if it is to grow proudly into the sky, can do without bad weather and storms: whether unkindness and opposition from without, whether some sort of hatred, envy, obstinacy, mistrust, severity, greed and violence do not belong to the favouring circumstances without which a great increase even in virtue is hardly possible. The poison which destroys the weaker nature strengthens the stronger – and he does not call it poison, either." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Any human being who does not wish to be part of the masses need only stop making things easy for himself. Let him follow his conscience, which calls out to him: 'Be yourself! All that you are now doing, thinking, desiring, all that is not you." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Mankind ought constantly to be striving to produce Great Men --this and nothing else is its duty" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"O Solitude! You are my home, Solitude!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Twofold misjudgement. - The misfortune suffered by clear-minded and easily understood writers is that they are taken for shallow and thus little effort is expended on reading them: and the good fortune that attends the obscure is that the reader toils at them and ascribes to them the pleasure he has in fact gained from his own zeal." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"If you would go up high, then use your own legs! Do not get yourselves carried aloft; do not seat yourselves on other people's backs and heads!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I love him whose soul is so overfull that he forgets himself, and all things are in him: thus all things become his going under." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We say it is ""explanation"" but it is only in ""description"" that we are in advance of the older stages of knowledge and science. We describe better we explain just as little as our predecessors. We have discovered a manifold succession where the naive man and investigator of older cultures saw only two things ""cause"" and ""effect "" as it was said we have perfected the conception of becoming but have not got a knowledge of what is above and behind the conception. The series of ""causes"" stands before us much more complete in every case we conclude that this and that must first precede in order that that other may follow - but we have not grasped anything thereby. The peculiarity for example in every chemical process seems a ""miracle "" the same as before just like all locomotion nobody has ""explained"" impulse. How could we ever explain We operate only with things which do not exist with lines surfaces bodies atoms divisible times divisible spaces - how can explanation ever be possible when we first make everything a conception our conception It is sufficient to regard science as the exactest humanizing of things that is possible we always learn to describe ourselves more accurately by describing things and their successions. Cause and effect: there is probably never any such duality in fact there is a continuum before us from which we isolate a few portions - just as we always observe a motion as isolated points and therefore do not properly see it but infer it. The abruptness with which many effects take place leads us into error it is however only an abruptness for us. There is an infinite multitude of processes in that abrupt moment which escape us. An intellect which could see cause and effect as a continuum which could see the flux of events not according to our mode of perception as things arbitrarily separated and broken - would throw aside the conception of cause and effect and would deny all conditionality." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"1. The Will to Truth, which is to tempt us to many a hazardous enterprise, the famous Truthfulness of which all philosophers have hitherto spoken with respect, what questions has this Will to Truth not laid before us! What strange, perplexing, questionable questions! It is already a long story; yet it seems as if it were hardly commenced. Is it any wonder if we at last grow distrustful, lose patience, and turn impatiently away? That this Sphinx teaches us at last to ask questions ourselves? WHO is it really that puts questions to us here? WHAT really is this ""Will to Truth"" in us? In fact we made a long halt at the question as to the origin of this Will—until at last we came to an absolute standstill before a yet more fundamental question. We inquired about the VALUE of this Will. Granted that we want the truth: WHY NOT RATHER untruth? And uncertainty? Even ignorance? The problem of the value of truth presented itself before us—or was it we who presented ourselves before the problem? Which of us is the Oedipus here? Which the Sphinx? It would seem to be a rendezvous of questions and notes of interrogation. And could it be believed that it at last seems to us as if the problem had never been propounded before, as if we were the first to discern it, get a sight of it, and RISK RAISING it? For there is risk in raising it, perhaps there is no greater risk." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Life consists of rare, isolated moments of the greatest significance, and of innumerable many intervals, during which at best the silhouettes of those moments hover about us." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I love all those who are heavy drops falling from the dark cloud that hangs over men: they herald the advent of lightning, and, as heralds, they perish." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Smooth iceis paradisefor those who dance with expertise." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"People who have given us their complete confidence believe that they have a right to ours. The inference is false, a gift confers no rights." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Every moment of life wants to tell us something, but we do not want to hear what it has to say: when we are alone and quiet we are afraid that something will be whispered into our ear and hence we despise quiet and drug ourselves with sociability." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When virtue has slept it will arise more vigorous." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"الذى لا يستطيع أن يأمر عليه أن يطيع" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What therefore is truth? A mobile army of metaphors, metonymies, anthropomorphisms: in short a sum of human relations which became poetically and rhetorically intensified, metamorphosed, adorned, and after long usage seem to a notion fixed, canonic, and binding; truths are illusions of which one has forgotten that they are illusions; worn-out metaphors which have become powerless to affect the senses; coins which have their obverse effaced and now are no longer of account as coins but merely as metal." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"...good men never tell the truth. The good taught you false shores and false securities: you were born and kept in the lies of the good. Everything has been distorted and twisted down to its very bottom through the good" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I am not angry with anybody. But when I am alone it seems to me that I can see my friends in a clearer and rosier light than when I am with them; and when I loved and felt music best I lived far from it. It would seem that I must have distant perspectives in order that I may think well of things." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To die proudly when it is no longer possible to live proudly. Death of one's own free choice, death at the proper time, with a clear head and with joyfulness, consummated in the midst of children and witnesses: so that an actual leave-taking is possible while he who is leaving is still there" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The domestication (the culture) of man does not go deep--where it does go deep it at once becomes degeneration (type: the Christian). The 'savage' (or, in moral terms, the evil man) is a return to nature--and in a certain sense his recovery, his cure from 'culture'." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"أنظروا إلى المؤمنين بجميع المعتقدات تعلموا من هو ألد أعدائهم إنه من يحطم الألواح التي حفروا عليها سننهم، ذلك هو الهدام، ذلك هو المجرم، غير أنه هو المبدع." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A day when you haven't danced, you haven't lived." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Ein Buch, das man liebt, darf man nicht leihen, sondern muss es besitzen." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The more you let yourself go, the less others let you go" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Here is the great city: here have you nothing to seek and everything to lose." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"He has heart who knows fear, but vanquishes it; who sees the abyss, but with pride.He who sees the abyss, but with eagle's eyes,- he who with eagle's talons grasps the abyss: he has courage." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One pays dearly for any kind of mastery on earth, where perhaps one pays too dearly for everything; one is master of one's trade at the price of also being its victim." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"How could you rise anew if you have not first become ashes?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"You run ahead? Are you doing it as a shepherd? Or as an exception? A third case would be as a fugitive. First question of conscience. Are you genuine? Or merely an actor? A representative? Or that which is represented? In the end, perhaps you are merely a copy of an actor. Second question of conscience.  Are you one who looks on? Or one who lends a hand? Or one who looks away and walks off? Third question of conscience.  Do you want to walk along? Or walk ahead? Or walk by yourself? One must know what one wants and that one wants. Fourth question of conscience." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What good is all this free-thinking, modernity, and turncoat flexibility if at some gut level you are still a Christian, a Catholic, and even a priest!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"This is the  insofar as we believe in morality we pass sentence on existence." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"He wants to be known deep down, abysmally deep down, before he is capable of being loved at all; he dares to let himself be fathomed. He feels that his beloved is fully in his possession only when she no longer deceives herself about him, when she loves him just as much for his devilry and hidden insatiability as for his graciousness, patience, and spirituality." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"لا يكفي لطالب الحقيقة أن يكون مخلصاً في قصده، بل عليه أن يترصد أخلاصه، ويقف موقف المشكك فيها؛ لأن عاشق الحقيقة إنما يحبها لا لنفسه مجاراةً لأهوائه، بل يهيم بها لذاتها ولو كان ذلك مخالفاً لعقيدته، فإذا هو اعترضته فكرة ناقضت مبدأه وجب عليه أن يقف عندها فلا يتردد أن يأخذ بها.إياك أن تقف حائلاً بين فكرتك وبين ما يُنافيها، فلا يبلغ أولَ درجة من الحكمة مَنْ لا يعمل بهذه الوصية.عليك أن تُصلى نفسك كل يومٍ حرباً وليس لك أن تُبالى بما تجنيه من نصر أو تجنى علبك جهودك من اندحار، فإن ذلك من شأن الحقيقة لا من شأنك." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is not the victory of science that distinguishes our nineteenth century, but the victory of scientific method over science." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What if pleasure and displeasure were so tied together that whoever wanted to have as much as possible of one must also have as much as possible of the other. You have a choice in life: either as little displeasure as possible, painlessness in brief or as much displeasure as possible as the price for an abundance of subtle pleasures and joys" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The danger in happiness - ""Now everything is turning out right for me; from now on I'll love every turn of fate - Who wants to be my fate?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I do not know how to make a distinction between tears and music﻿" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Creating—that is the great salvation from suffering, and life's alleviation. But for the creator to appear, suffering itself is needed, and much transformation. Yea, much bitter dying must there be in your life, ye creators! Thus are ye advocates and justifiers of all perishableness. For the creator himself to be the new-born child, he must also be willing to be the child-bearer, and endure the pangs of the child-bearer." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Popular medicine and popular morality belong together and ought not to be evaluated so differently as they still are: both are the most dangerous pseudo-sciences." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Not one shred of evidence supports the notion that life is serious." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"For this is how things are: the diminution and leveling of European man constitutes  greatest danger, for the sight of him makes us weary.—We can see nothing today that wants to grow greater, we suspect that things will continue to go down, down, to become thinner, more good-natured, more prudent, more comfortable, more mediocre, more indifferent, more Chinese, more Christian—there is no doubt that man is getting 'better' all the time." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"And many such good inventions are there, that they are like woman's breasts: useful at the same time, and pleasant." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"My taste, which may be the opposite of a tolerant taste, is in this case very far from saying Yes indiscriminately: it does not like to say Yes; better to say No, but best of all to say nothing." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"All concepts in which an entire process is semiotically concentrated elude definition; only that which has no history is definable." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Whoever extolls him as a God of love, does not think highly enough of love itself." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"But I am still far from them, and my sense does not speak to their sense. To men I am something between a fool and a corpse." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The worst sickness of men tends to originate in the sentimental way they try to combat their sicknesses. What seems like an easy cure, in the long run produces something worse than what it's supposed to overcome. Fake consolations always have to be paid for with a general and profound worsening of the original complaint." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"وإنها لمكافئة رديئة للمعّلم أن يظلّ المرء على الدوام مجرّد تلميذ" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"She has the power to both possess and shatter my entire universe, that is all." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What do you plan to do in the land of the sleepers? You have been floating in a sea of solitude, and the sea has borne you up. At long last, are you ready for dry land? Are you ready to drag yourself ashore?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When a man feels that he has a divine mission, say to lift up, to save or to liberate mankind‐‐when a man feels the divine spark in his heart and believes that he is the mouthpiece of supernatural imperatives‐‐ when such a mission in. flames him, it is only natural that he should stand beyond all merely reasonable standards of judgment. He feels that he is himself sanctified by this mission, that he is himself a type of a higher order! . . . What has a priest to do with philosophy! He stands far above it!‐‐And hitherto the priest has ruled!‐‐He has determined the meaning of ""true"" and ""not true""!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The chastest expression I have ever heard: 'Dans la véritable amour c'est l'âme, qui enveloppe le corps." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Growth in wisdom can be measured precisely by decline in bile." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What can everyone do? Praise and blame. This is human virtue, this is human madness." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Supposing that what is at any rate believed to be the 'truth' really is true, and the  is the reduction of the beast of prey 'man' to a tame and civilized animal, a , then one would undoubtedly have to regard all those instincts of reaction and  through whose aid the noble races and their ideals were finally confounded and overthrown as the actual ; which is not to say that the  of these instincts themselves represent culture. Rather is the reverse not merely probable—no! today it is  These bearers of the oppressive instincts that thirst for reprisal, the descendants of every kind of European and non-European slavery, and especially of the entire pre-Aryan populace—they represent the  of mankind! These 'instruments of culture' are a disgrace to man and rather an accusation and counterargument against 'culture' in general!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A pair of powerful spectacles has sometimes sufficed to cure a person in love." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Life itself appears to me as an instinct for growth, for survival, for the accumulation of forces, for power: whenever the will to power fails there is disaster. My contention is that all the highest values of humanity have been emptied of this will—that the values of décadence, of nihilism, now prevail under the holiest names. 7. Christianity is called the religion of pity.—Pity stands in" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Love your enemies because they bring out the best in you." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To put up with people, to keep open house with one's heart — that is liberal, but that is merely liberal. One recognizes those hearts which are capable of noble hospitality by the many draped windows and closedshutters, they keep their best rooms empty. Why? Because they expect guests with whom one does not ""put up." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The surest way of ruining a youth is to teach him to respect those who think as he does more highly than those who think differently from him." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One cannot refute Christianity; one cannot refute a disease of the eye." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Die at the right time" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The creator seeks companions, not corpses- and not herds or believers either. The creator seeks fellow-creators - those who grave new values on new law-tablets." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"If you invest all your energy in economics, world commerce, parliamentarianism, military engagements, power and power politics, -if you take the quantum of intelligence, seriousness, will, and self-overcoming that you embody and expend it all in this one direction, there there won't be any left for the other direction. Culture and the state - let us be honest with ourselves - these are adversaries." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The same passions in man and woman nonetheless differ in tempo; hence man and woman do not cease misunderstanding one another." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When I picture a perfect reader, I always picture a monster of courage and curiosity, also something supple, cunning, cautious, a born adventurer and discoverer" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Youth is an unpleasant period; for then it is not possible or not prudent to be productive in any sense whatsoever." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There is only a perspective seeing, only a perspective ""knowing""; and the more affects we allow to speak about one thing, the more eyes, different eyes, we can use to observe one thing, the more complete will our ""concept"" of this thing, our ""objectivity,"" be." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When, however, you have an enemy, then do not requite him good for evil: for that would shame him. Instead, prove that he did some good for you. And rather be angry than put to shame! And when you are cursed, I do not like it that you want to bless. Rather curse a little also! And if you are done a great injustice, then quickly add five small ones. Hideous to behold is he who is obsessed with an injustice." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"So I ask my pride that it always go along with my wisdom. And when my wisdom leaves me one day alas - it loves to flyway - let my pride then fly with my folly." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"If you gaze long into an abyss, the abyss will gaze back into you?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"That which you term ""moderation"", I call ""mediocrity" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is obvious that my head does not stand properly on my shoulders; for it is well known that everyone else knows better than I what I should do and not do: only I, poor rogue, do not know what I should be at. Are we not all like statues with the wrong heads on them? Isn't that so, my dear neighbor? - But no, you, precisely you, are the exception." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Christianity is the metaphysics of the hangman." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"People are always angry at anyone who chooses very individual standards for his life; because of the extraordinary treatment which that man grants to himself, they feel degraded, like ordinary beings." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The actual stronghold of a man is inaccessible, almost invisible, until friends and enemies turn traitor- and lead him there by a secret path" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"For some time now, our whole European culture has been moving with a tortured tension that is growing from decade to decade, as toward a catastrophe: restlessly, violently, headlong, like a river that wants to reach the end, that no longer reflects, that is afraid to reflect." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Like a last signpost to the other path, Napoleon appeared, the most isolated and late-born man there has even been, and in him the problem of the noble ideal as such made flesh--one might well ponder what kind of problem it is; Napoleon this synthesis of the inhuman and the superhuman" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When the gratitude of many to one throws away all shame, we behold fame." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There is an ancient story that King Midas hunted in the forest a long time for the wise Silenus, the companion of Dionysus, without capturing him. When Silenus at last fell into his hands, the king asked what was the best and most desirable of all things for man. Fixed and immovable, the demigod said not a word, till at last, urged by the king, he gave a shrill laugh and broke out into these words: ‘Oh, wretched ephemeral race, children of chance and misery, why do you compel me to tell you what it would be most expedient for you not to hear? What is best of all is utterly beyond your reach: not to be born, not to be, to be nothing. But the second best for you is—to die soon." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The levelling of the European man is the great process which cannot be obstructed; it should even be accelerated. The necessity of cleaving gulfs, distance, order of rank, is therefore imperative —not the necessity of retarding this process. This homogenizing species requires justification as soon as it is attained: its justification is that it lies in serving a higher and sovereign race which stands upon the former and can raise itself this task only by doing this. Not merely a race of masters whose sole task is to rule, but a race with its own sphere of life, with an overflow of energy for beauty, bravery, culture, and manners, even for the most abstract thought; a yea-saying race that may grant itself every great luxury —strong enough to have no need of the tyranny of the virtue-imperative, rich enough to have no need of economy or pedantry; beyond good and evil; a hothouse for rare and exceptional plants." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Creation-that is the great redemption from suffering, and life's growing light. But that the creator may be, much suffering is needed and much change. Indeed, there must be much bitter dying in your life, you creators" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Error regarding life necessary to life. - Every belief in the value and dignity of life rests on false thinking; it is possible only through the fact that empathy with the universal life and suffering of mankind is very feebly developed in the individual. Even those rarer men who think beyond themselves at all have an eye, not for this universal life, but for fenced-off portions of it. If one knows how to keep the exceptions principally in view, I mean the greatly gifted and pure of soul, takes their production for the goal of world-evolution and rejoices in the effects they in turn produce, one may believe in the value of life, because the one is overlooking all other men: thinking falsely, that is to say. And likewise if, though one does keep in view all mankind, one accords validity only to one species of drives, the less egoistical, and justifies them in face of all the others, then again one can hope for something of mankind as a whole and to this extent believe in the value of life: thus, in this case too, through falsity of thinking. Whichever of these attitudes one adopts, however, one is by adopting in an exception among men. The great majority endure life without complaining overmuch; they believe in the value of existence, but they do so precisely because each of them exists for himself alone, refusing to step out of himself as those exceptions do: everything outside themselves they notice not at all or at most as a dim shadow. Thus for the ordinary, everyday man the value of life rests solely on the fact that regards himself more highly than he does the world. The great lack of imagination from which he suffers means he is unable to feel his way into other beings and thus he participates as little as possible in their fortunes and sufferings. He, on the other hand, who really could participate in them would have to despair of the value of life; if he succeeded in encompassing and feeling within himself the total consciousness of mankind he would collapse with a curse on existence - for mankind has as a whole no goal, and the individual man when he regards its total course cannot derive from it any support or comfort, but must be reduced to despair. If in all he does he has before him the ultimate goallessness of man, his actions acquire in his own eyes the character of useless squandering. But to feel thus squandered, not merely as an individual fruits but as humanity as a whole, in the way we behold the individual fruits of nature squandered, is a feeling beyond all other feelings. - But who is capable of such a feeling? Certainly only a poet: and poets always know how to console themselves." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"79. A soul which knows that it is loved, but does not itself love, betrays its sediment: its dregs come up." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"My thoughts', said the wanderer to his shadow, ‘should show me where I stand, but they should not betray to me where I am going. I love ignorance of the future and do not want to perish of impatience and premature tasting of things promised." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"very popular error: having the courage of one's convictions—? Rather it is a matter of having the courage for an attack on one's convictions" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Interpreting myself, I always readMyself into my books. I clearly needSome help. But all who climb on their own wayCarry my image, too, into the breaking day." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"All of life is a dispute over taste and tasting." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"إن المساواة مع العدو هى الشرط الأول لنزال شريف, وحيثما يوجد مجال للإحتقار لا يمكن للمرء أن يخوض حربا" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Besides this I place another equally obvious confirmation of my view that opera is based on the same principles as our Alexandrian culture. Opera is the birth of the theoretical man, the critical layman, not of the artist: one of the most surprising facts in the history of all the arts. It was the demand of throughly unmusical hearers that before everything else the words must be understood, so that according to them a rebirth of music is to be expected only when some mode of singing has been discovered in which textword lords it over counterpoint like master over servant: For the words, it is argued, are as much nobler than the accompanying harmonic system as the soul is nobler than the body." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The best author will be the one who is ashamed to become a writer." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To love mankind for the sake of God-that has been the most nobel and far-fetched feeling yet achieved by human beings. The idea that without some sanctifying ulterior motive, a love of mankind is just one more brutish stupidity, that the predisposition to such a love must first find its weight, its refinement, its grain of salt and pinch of ambergris in another even higher predisposition-whoever first felt and 'witnessed' this, and however much his tongue may have stuttered in attempting to express such a delicate idea: may he remain forever venerable and holy in our sight as the man who as yet has flown the highest and erred the most beautifully!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is the richness of a personality, the fullness of it, its power to flow over and to bestow, its instinctive feeling of ease, and its affirmative attitude towards itself, that creates great love and great sacrifices: these passions proceed from strong and godlike personalism as surely as do the desire to be master, to obtrude, and the inner certainty that one has a right to everything." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"For believe me! — the secret for harvesting from existence the greatest fruitfulness and the greatest enjoyment is: to live dangerously!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"إنسانيّتى هى تجاوز متواصل للذات, إلا إننى بحاجة للعزلة" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"آنجا که دیگر نمی توان عشق ورزید باید آنرا گذاشت و گذشت!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What strange, perplexing, questionable questions!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What an age experiences as evil is usually an untimely reverberation echoing what was previously experienced as good—the atavism of an older ideal." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Rather know nothing than half-know many things! Rather be a fool on one's own account than a wise man in the opinion of others!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Every characteristic absence of spirituality, every piece of common vulgarity, is due to an inability to resist a stimulus - you have to react, you follow every impulse." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Man Is Something That Must Be Overcome" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The time is gone when mere accidents could still happen to me; and what could still come to me now that was not mine already? What returns, what finally comes home to me, is my own self and what of myself has long been in strange lands and scattered among all things and accidents." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One must reach out and try to grasp this astonishing finesse, that the value of life cannot be estimated." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"You have always wanted to caress every monster." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Was ist gut? – Alles, was das Gefühl der Macht, den Willen zur Macht, die Macht selbst im Menschen erhöht.Was ist schlecht? – Alles, was aus der Schwäche stammt.Was ist Glück? – Das Gefühl davon, daß die Macht wächst, – daß ein Widerstand überwunden wird.---What is good? Everything that heightens the feeling of power in man, the will to power, power itself.What is bad? Everything that is born of weakness.What is happiness? The feeling that power is growing, that resistance is overcome. ---Thiện là gì? Mọi cái nâng cao cảm xúc quyền lực trong con người, ý chí quyền lực, quyền tự thân.Ác là gì? Mọi cái sinh ra từ sự nhu nhược.Hạnh phúc là gì? Cảm giác quyền lực đang tăng trưởng và cảm giác trở lực được khắc phục." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Everything that can be denied, deserves to be denied; and real sincerity means the belief in a state of things which cannot be denied, or in which there is no lie. The sincere man feels that his activity has a metaphysical meaning. It can only be explained by the laws of a different and a higher life; it is in the deepest sense an affirmation: even if everything that he does seem utterly opposed to the laws of our present life." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I am a wanderer and mountain-climber, said he to his heart, I love not the plains, and it seemeth I cannot long sit still.And whatever may still overtake me as fate and experience—a wandering will be therein, and a mountain-climbing: in the end one experienceth only oneself." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Good and evil, and joy and pain, and I and you- colored vapors did they seem to me before creative eyes. The creator wished to look away from himself,- and so he created the world." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The frost of loneliness makes me shiver." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Flight from boredom is the mother of all art." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is good to express a matter in two ways simultaneously so as to give it both a right foot and a left. Truth can stand on one leg, to be sure; but with two it can walk and get about." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"He enters a labyrinth, he multiplies by a thousand the dangers already inherent in the very act of living, not the least of which is the fact that no one with eyes will see how and where he gets lost and lonely and is torn limb from limb by some cave-Minotaur of conscience." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"People who think deeply feel themselves to be comedians in their relationship with others because they first have to simulate a surface in order to be understood." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"إن إنسانيّتى لا تتمثل فى التعاطف مع الإنسان فى وجوده، بل فى أن أتحمل الشعور به إلى جانبى" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"State I call it where all drink poison, the good and the wicked; state, where all lose themselves, the good and the wicked; state, where the slow suicide of all is called ""life." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"...the secret for harvesting from existence the greatest fruitfulness and greatest enjoyment is - to live dangerously." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"He who fights monster should beware, lest he become a monster himself" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Whoever does not believe himself always lies." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Life is a journey so everyone is a tourist" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Whoever knows he is deep tries to be clear, but whoever wants to seem deep to the crowd tries to be obscure. For the crowd supposes that anything it cannot see to the bottom must be deep: it is so timid and goes so unwillingly into the water." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"فن التفكيرإن أكبر تقدم حققه الناس هو كونهم تعلموا أن يفكروا بدقة.ليس هذا شيئا طبيعيا جدا مثلما يفترضه شوبنهارو حين يقول 'كل الناس قادرون على التفكير ،قليل من الناس من يستطيع أن يصدر حكما '،ولكن التفكير شيء تم اكتسابه ،بشكل متأخر ولازال لم يثبت سلطته.في العصور القديمه ،كان التفكير الخطأيشكل القاعدة:وميثولوجيات كل الشعوب ،سحرها وخرافتها،عبادتها الدينية،قانونها،كل هذا معين لاينضب من الحجج المؤيدة لهذا الإفتراض" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"For the new year — I still live, I still think: I still have to live, for I still have to think. Sum, ergo cogito, cogito, ergo sum. Today everybody permits himself the expression of his wish and his dearest thought; hence I, too, shall say what it is that I wish from myself today, and what was the first thought to run across my heart this year — what thought shall be for me the reason, warranty, and sweetness of my life henceforth! I do not want to accuse; I do not even want to accuse those who accuse. Looking away shall be my only negation. And all in all and on the whole: some day I wish to be only a Yes-sayer." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is true, there could be a metaphysical world; the absolute possibility of it is hardly to be disputed. We behold all things through the human head and cannot cut off this head; while the question nonetheless remains what of the world would still be there if one had cut it off." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Democracy and free speech are not facets of one gem; democracy and free speech are eternal enemies." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One still works, for work is a pastime. But one is careful lest the pastime should hurt one." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"All sciences are now under the obligation to prepare the ground for the future task of the philosopher, which is to solve the problem of value, to determine the true hierarchy of values." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A thinking man never be a party man." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"This saintly anarchist, who aroused the people of the abyss, the outcasts and 'sinners,' the Chandala of Judaism, to rise in revolt against the established order of things—and in language which, if the Gospels are to be credited, would get him sent to Siberia today—this man was certainly a political criminal, at least in so far as it was possible to be one in so absurdly unpolitical a community. This is what brought him to the cross: the proof thereof is to be found in the inscription that was put upon the cross. He died for his own sins—there is not the slightest ground for believing, no matter how often it is asserted, that he died for the sins of others." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Ah, I cast indeed my net into their sea, and meant to catch good fish; but always did I draw up the head of some ancient God." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"who have a why to live can bear any howکسی که چرایی در ""زندگی"" داردتحمل هر ""چگونگی"" را دارد" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"My loneliness is not By the presence or absence of people; On the contrary, I hate who steals my loneliness, Without, in exchange, offer me a real company" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"This book belongs to the most rare of men. Perhaps not one of them is yet alive. It is possible that they may be among those who understand my 'Zarathustra': how could I confound myself with those who are now sprouting ears?—First the day after tomorrow must come for me. Some men are born posthumously." -Friedrich Nietzsche
".خسته دلان ،خورشید را سرزنش می كنند، برای آنها ارزش درخت به سایه است" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"All beings so far have created something beyond themselves; and do you want to be the ebb of this great flood and even go back to the beasts rather than overcome man? What is the ape to man? A laughingstock or a painful embarrassment. And man shall be just that for the overman: a laughingstock or a painful embarrassment… (…) Man is a rope, tied between beast and overman—a rope over an abyss… What is great in man is that he is a bridge and not an end: what can be loved in man is that he is an overture and a going under…" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In a dream–in the last dream of the morning, I stood in the foothills today–beyond the world, held scales, and weighed the world." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"How COULD they endure my happiness, if I did not put around it accidents, and winter-privations, and bear-skin caps, and enmantling snowflakes!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We don't know ourselves, we knowledgeable people—we are personally ignorantabout ourselves. And there's good reason for that. We've never tried to find out whowe are. How could it ever happen that one day we'd discover our own selves? Withjustice it's been said that ""Where your treasure is, there shall your heart be also."" Ourtreasure lies where the beehives of our knowledge stand. We are always busy with ourknowledge, as if we were born winged creatures—collectors of intellectual honey. Inour hearts we are basically concerned with only one thing, to ""bring somethinghome."" As far as the rest of life is concerned, what people call ""experience""—whichof us is serious enough for that? Who has enough time? In these matters, I fear, we'vebeen ""missing the point.""Our hearts have not even been engaged—nor, for that matter, have our ears! We'vebeen much more like someone divinely distracted and self-absorbed into whose earthe clock has just pealed the twelve strokes of noon with all its force and who all atonce wakes up and asks himself ""What exactly did that clock strike?""—so we rubourselves behind the ears afterwards and ask, totally surprised and embarrassed ""Whathave we really just experienced? And more: ""Who are we really?"" Then, as I'vementioned, we count—after the fact—all the twelve trembling strokes of the clock ofour experience, our lives, our being—alas! in the process we keep losing the count. Sowe remain necessarily strangers to ourselves, we do not understand ourselves, wehave to keep ourselves confused. For us this law holds for all eternity: ""Each man isfurthest from himself."" Where we ourselves are concerned, we are not""knowledgeable people." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Was it not part of the secret black art of truly  politics of revenge, of a farseeing, subterranean, slowly advancing, and premeditated revenge, that Israel must itself deny the real instrument of its revenge before all the world as a mortal enemy and nail it to the cross, so that 'all the world,' namely all the opponents of Israel, could unhesitatingly swallow just this bait? And could spiritual subtlety imagine any  bait than this? Anything to equal the enticing, intoxicating, overwhelming, and undermining power of that symbol of the 'holy cross,' that ghastly paradox of a 'God on the cross,' that mystery of an unimaginable ultimate cruelty and self-crucifixion of God ?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"For those who need consolation no means of consolation is so effective as the assertion that in their case no consolation is possible: it implies so great a degree of distinction that they at once hold up their heads again." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"But Rousseau — to what did he really want to return? Rousseau, this first modern man, idealist and rabble in one person — one who needed moral ""dignity"" to be able to stand his own sight, sick with unbridled vanity and unbridled self-contempt. This miscarriage, couched on the threshold of modern times, also wanted a ""return to nature""; to ask this once more, to what did Rousseau want to return? I still hate Rousseau in the French Revolution: it is the world-historical expression of this duality of idealist and rabble. The bloody farce which became an aspect of the Revolution, its ""immorality,"" is of little concern to me: what I hate is its Rousseauan morality — the so-called ""truths"" of the Revolution through which it still works and attracts everything shallow and mediocre. The doctrine of equality! There is no more poisonous poison anywhere: for it seems to be preached by justice itself, whereas it really is the termination of justice. ""Equal to the equal, unequal to the unequal"" — that would be the true slogan of justice; and also its corollary: ""Never make equal what is unequal."" That this doctrine of equality was surrounded by such gruesome and bloody events, that has given this ""modern idea"" par excellence a kind of glory and fiery aura so that the Revolution as a spectacle has seduced even the noblest spirits. In the end, that is no reason for respecting it any more. I see only one man who experienced it as it must be experienced, with nausea — Goethe.Goethe — not a German event, but a European one: a magnificent attempt to overcome the eighteenth century by a return to nature, by an ascent to the naturalness of the Renaissance — a kind of self-overcoming on the part of that century. He bore its strongest instincts within himself: the sensibility, the idolatry of nature, the anti-historic, the idealistic, the unreal and revolutionary (the latter being merely a form of the unreal). He sought help from history, natural science, antiquity, and also Spinoza, but, above all, from practical activity; he surrounded himself with limited horizons; he did not retire from life but put himself into the midst of it; he if was not fainthearted but took as much as possible upon himself, over himself, into himself. What he wanted was totality; he fought the mutual extraneousness of reason, senses, feeling, and will (preached with the most abhorrent scholasticism by Kant, the antipode of Goethe); he disciplined himself to wholeness, he created himself.In the middle of an age with an unreal outlook, Goethe was a convinced realist: he said Yes to everything that was related to him in this respect — and he had no greater experience than that ens realissimum [most real being] called Napoleon.Goethe conceived a human being who would be strong, highly educated, skillful in all bodily matters, self-controlled, reverent toward himself, and who might dare to afford the whole range and wealth of being natural, being strong enough for such freedom; the man of tolerance, not from weakness but from strength, because he knows how to use to his advantage even that from which the average nature would perish; the man for whom there is no longer anything that is forbidden — unless it be weakness, whether called vice or virtue.Such a spirit who has become free stands amid the cosmos with a joyous and trusting fatalism, in the faith that only the particular is loathesome, and that all is redeemed and affirmed in the whole — he does not negate anymore. Such a faith, however, is the highest of all possible faiths: I have baptized it with the name of Dionysus.50 One might say that in a certain sense the nineteenth century also strove for all that which Goethe as a person had striven for: universality in understanding and in welcoming, letting everything come close to oneself, an audacious realism, a reverence for everything factual." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Love brings the high and concealed characteristics of the lover into the light--what is rare and exceptional in him: to that extent it easily deceives regarding his normality." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Our way is upward, from the species across to the super-species. But the degenerate mind which says ‘All for me' is a horror to us." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I don't want to be mistaken for anyone―so I mustn't mistake myself." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Main thought! The individual himself is a fallacy. Everything which happens in us is in itself something else which we do not know. ‘The individual' is merely a sum of conscious feelings and judgments and misconceptions, a belief, a piece of the true life system or many pieces thought together and spun together, a ‘unity', that doesn't hold together. We are buds on a single tree—what do we know about what can become of us from the interests of the tree! But we have a consciousness as though we would and should be everything, a phantasy of ‘I' and all ‘not I.' Stop feeling oneself as this phantastic ego! Learn gradually to discard the supposed individual! Discover the fallacies of the ego! Recognize egoism as fallacy! The opposite is not to be understood as altruism! This would be love of other supposed individuals! No! Get beyond ‘myself' and ‘yourself'! Experience cosmically!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Man muß noch Kaos in sich haben um einen tanzenden Stern gebären zu können" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Man has been reared by his errors: first he never saw himself other than imperfectly, second he attributed to himself imaginary qualities, third he felt himself in a false order of rank with animal and nature, fourth he continually invented new tables of values and for a time took each of them to be eternal and unconditional...If one deducts the effect of these four errors, one has also deducted away humanity, humaneness, and 'human dignity'." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Pain does not count as an objection to life" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"And indeed, just think: in many ways, body and soul, I have been more a battlefield than a human being." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Help yourself, then everyone will help you. Principle of brotherly love." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What really arouses indignation against suffering is not suffering as such but the senselessness of suffering..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"إحترسوا من أن يقتلكم صنم ما" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One should part from life as Ulysses parted from Nausicaa-- blessing it rather than in love with it." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"They believe one becomes selfless in love because one desires the advantage of another human being, often against one's own advantage. But in return for that they want to  the other person." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Pity thwarts the whole law of evolution, which is the law of natural selection. It preserves whatever is ripe for destruction;" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Alas, the magic of these battles is that whoever looks at them must also fight them." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"No small art is it to sleep: it is necessary for that purpose to keep awake all day.Ten times a day must thou overcome thyself: that causeth wholesome weariness, and is poppy to the soul.Ten times must thou reconcile again with thyself; for overcoming is bitterness, and badly sleep the unreconciled.Ten truths must thou find during the day; otherwise wilt thou seek truth during the night, and thy soul will have been hungry." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"So long as the priest, that denier, calumniator and poisoner of life by profession, still counts as a higher kind of human being, there can be no answer to the question: what is truth? One has already stood truth on its head when the conscious advocate of denial and nothingness counts as the representative of ‘truth" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"هرکه از خویش فرمان نبرد بر او فرمان می‌رانند. چنین است سرشت زندگان" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"My formula is Amor fati: ... not only to bear up under every necessity, but to love it.Semboyanku ialah Amor fati: ... tidak saja tabah menanggung segala keharusan (penderitaan), melainkan juga mencintainya." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Business people - Your business - is your greatest prejudice: it ties you to your locality, to the company you keep, to the inclinations you feel. Diligent in business - but indolent in spirit, content with your inadequacy, and with the cloak of duty hung over this contentment: that is how you live, that is how you want your children to live!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"If something is to stay in the memory it must be burned in: only that which never ceases hurting stays in the memory." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Only Individuals have a sense of Responsibility" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"O my brothers, your nobility should not look backward but ahead! Exiles shall you be from all father- and forefather-lands! Your children's land shall you love: this love shall be your new nobility — the undiscovered land in the most distant sea. For that I bid your sails search and search. In your children you shall make up for being the children of your fathers: thus shall you redeem all that is past." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"إنني أحب من لا غاية لهم في الحياة إلا الزوال ، فهم يمرون إلى ما وراء الحياة." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"ساخر جداأنا ومحترق بأفكارى, وكثيرا ما تختنق أنفاسى بهذه الأفكار" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The sage as astronomer.—As long as you still feel the stars as something 'above you', you have not yet acquired the gaze of a man of deep understanding." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Friedrich Wilhelm Nietzsche (October 15, 1844 – August 25, 1900) was a German philosopher. His writing included critiques of religion, morality, contemporary culture, philosophy, and science, using a distinctive style and displaying a fondness for aphorism. Nietzsche's influence remains substantial within and beyond philosophy, notably in existentialism and postmodernism. Nietzsche began his career as a philologist before turning to philosophy. At the age of 24 he became Professor of Classical Philology at the University of Basel, but resigned in 1879 due to health problems, which would plague him for most of his life. In 1889 he exhibited symptoms of a serious mental illness, living out his remaining years in the care of his mother and sister until his death in 1900." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The sedentary life...is the real sin against the holy spirit." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There are probably no pure races but only races that have become pure, even these being extremely rare. What is normal is crossed races, in which, together with a disharmony of physical features (when eye and mouth do not correspond with one another, for example), there must always go a disharmony of habits and value-concepts. (Livingstone¹¹³ heard someone say: 'God created white and black men but the Devil Created the half-breeds.') Crossed races always mean at the same time crossed cultures, crossed moralities: they are usually more evil, crueller, more restless. Purity is the final result of countless adaptations, absorptions and secretions, and progress towards purity is evidenced in the fact that the energy available to a race is increasingly restricted to individual selected functions, while previously it was applied to too many and often contradictory things: such a restriction will always seem to be an impoverishment and should be assessed with consideration and caution. In the end, however, if the process of purification is successful, all that energy formerly expended in the struggle of the dissonant qualities with one another will stand at the command of the total organism: which is why races that have become pure have always also become stronger and more beautiful. The Greeks offer us the model of a race and culture that has become pure: and hopefully we shall one day also achieve a pure European race and culture." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Around the hero everything becomes a tragedy; around the demigod everything becomes a satyr-play; and around God everything becomes — what? perhaps a 'world'?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"everything that is deep loves the mask" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I fail to remember ever having made an effort — no trace of struggle is detectable in my life, I am the opposite of a heroic nature. To 'want' something, to 'strive' for something, to have an 'end,' a 'desire' in mind — I know none of this from my experience. Even at this moment I look out upon my future — a broad future! — as upon a smooth sea: no desire ripples upon it.Not in the least do I want anything to be different from what it is; I myself do not want to be any different ... But thus I have always lived." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"أنت المحكوم عليك بنفسك و برجم نفسك بنفسك: أي زرادشت! .. بعيدا قذفت بحجرك، لكن فوق رأسك سيقع حجرك ذاك" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Where are we headed? Are we not endlessly plunging —backwards, sideways, forwards, in all directions? Is there an up and a down anymore? Do we not wander as if through an endless nothingness? Do we not feel the breath of empty space? Hasn't it grown colder?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is the noble races that have left behind them the concept 'barbarian' wherever they have gone; even their highest culture betrays a consciousness of it and even a pride in it (for example, when Pericles says to the Athenians in his famous funeral oration 'our boldness has gained access to every land and sea, everywhere raising imperishable monuments to its goodness ""). This 'boldness' of noble races, mad, absurd, and sudden in its expression, the incalculability, even incredibility of their undertakings—Pericles specially commends the  of the Athenians—their indifference to and contempt for security, body, life, comfort, their hair-raising cheerfulness and profound joy in all destruction, in all the voluptuousness of victory and cruelty—all this came together, in the minds of those who suffered from it, in the image of the 'barbarian,' the 'evil enemy,' perhaps as the 'Goths,' the 'Vandals." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"You great star, what would your happiness be had you not those for whom you shine?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In a real man there is a child hidden: it wants to play. Up then, you women, and discover the child in man!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"That the other suffers has to be learned; and it can never be learned fully." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"2. ""HOW COULD anything originate out of its opposite? For example, truth out of error? or the Will to Truth out of the will to deception? or the generous deed out of selfishness? or the pure sun-bright vision of the wise man out of covetousness? Such genesis is impossible; whoever dreams of it is a fool, nay, worse than a fool; things of the highest value must have a different origin, an origin of THEIR own—in this transitory, seductive, illusory, paltry world, in this turmoil of delusion and cupidity, they cannot have their source. But rather in the lap of Being, in the intransitory, in the concealed God, in the 'Thing-in-itself— THERE must be their source, and nowhere else!""—" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"And must I not conceal myself like one who has swallowed gold- lest my soul should be ripped up?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Yet tell me, my brothers: if a goal for humanity is still lacking, is there not still lacking--humanity itself?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"إذا أطلتَ التحديق في الهاوية، فاعلم أن الهاوية هي الأخرى تُحَدِّق فيك." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"صوت الجمال همساً يتكلم : إنه لا يتسلل إلا إلى الأرواح اليقظة" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"If we have our own why in life, we shall get along with almost any how. Man does not strive for pleasure; only the Englishman does." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Dionysus had already been scared form the tragic stage, by a demonic power speaking through Euripides. Even Euripides was, in a sense, only a mask: the deity that spoke through him was neither Dionysus nor Apollo, but an altogether newborn demon, called ." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Not doubt, CERTAINTY is what drives one insane" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When the Christian crusaders in the Orient came across that invincible order of Assassins – that order of free spirits par excellence whose lowest order received, through some channel or other, a hint about that symbol and spell reserved for the uppermost echelons alone, as their secret: ""nothing is true, everything is permitted"". Now that was freedom of the spirit, with that, belief in truth itself was renounced." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"لقد كنتم من جنس القرود فيما مضى، على أن الإنسان لم يفتأ حتى اليوم أعرق من القرود فى قرديته." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Shared joys make a friend, not shared sufferings." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Thinking of yourself as a destiny, not wanting to be 'other' than you are -that is under such circumstances the highest wisdom." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The Happy one ""Is to have fine senses and a fine taste.. To be accustomed to the select and intellectually best..to be blessed with a strong bold and daring soul..to go through life with a quiet eye and a firm step, ever ready for the worst as for the festival, and full of longing for undiscovered worlds and seas, men and Gods" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Nihilism is…not only the belief that everything deserves to perish; but one actually puts one shoulder to the plough; one destroys." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"الصحراء تمتد وتتسع, وويل لمن يحمل صحارى فى داخله !" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"That which now calls itself democracy differs from older forms of government solely in that it drives with new horses: the streets are still the same old streets, and the wheels are likewise the same old wheels." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Alas, the time of the most despicable man is coming, he that is no longer able to despise himself.Behold, I show you the last man. 'What is love? What is creation? What is longing? What is a star?'—thus asks the last man, and he blinks.The earth has become smaller, and on it hops the man who makes everything small...'We have invented happiness'—say the last men, and they blink." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I praise, I do not reproach, [nihilism's] arrival. I believe it is one of the greatest crises, a moment of the deepest self-reflection of humanity. Whether man recovers from it, whether he becomes master of this crisis, is a question of his strength." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Our treasure lies in the beehive of our knowledge. We are perpetually on the way thither, being by nature winged insects and honey gatherers of the mind." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To say it for those who know how to explain a thing: women have the intelligence, men the heart and passion. This is not contradicted by the fact that men actually get so much farther with their intelligence: they have the deeper, more powerful drives; these take their intelligence, which is in itself something passive, forward. Women are often privately amazed at the great honor men pay to their hearts. When men look especially for a profound, warm-hearted being, in choosing their spouse, and women for a clever, alert, and brilliant being, one sees very clearly how a man is looking for an idealized man, and a woman for an idealized woman--that is, not for a complement, but for the perfection of their own merits." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The state lieth in all languages of good and evil; and whatever it saith it lieth; and whatever it hath it hath stolen." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Of all that is written, I love only what a person hath written with his blood. Write with blood, and thou wilt find that blood is spirit. It is no easy task to understand unfamiliar blood; I hate the reading idlers. He who knoweth the reader, doeth nothing more for the reader. Another century of readers—and spirit itself will stink." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"This is my way, what is your way? The way doesn't exist." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What the father has hidden comes out in the son, and often have I found the son to be a father's revealed secret." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"براستی،انسان رودی ست آلوده، دریا باید بود تا رودی آلوده را پذیرا شد و ناپاکی نپذیرفت" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The Christian church is an encyclopaedia of prehistoric cults and conceptions of the most diverse orgiin and that is why it is so capable of proselytising: it always could and it can still go wherever it pleases and it always found and it always finds something similar to itself to which it can adapt itself and gradually impose upon it a Christian meaning." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Lonely now and miserably self-distrustful, I took sides, not without resentment, against myself and for everything that hurt me and was hard to me." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Are you genuine? or just a play-actor? A representative? it the actual thing represented?-Ultimately you are even just an imitation play-actor....Second question for the conscience." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Whoever looks into himself as into vast space and carries galaxies in himself, also knows how irregular all galaxies are; they lead into the chaos and labyrinth of existence." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"That immense framework and planking of concepts to which the needy man clings his whole life long in order to preserve himself is nothing but a scaffolding and toy for the most audacious feats of the liberated intellect. And when it smashes this framework to pieces, throws it into confusion, and puts it back together in an ironic fashion, pairing the most alien things and separating the closest, it is demonstrating that it has no need of these makeshifts of indigence and that it will now be guided by intuitions rather than by concepts. There is no regular path which leads from these intuitions into the land of ghostly schemata, the land of abstractions. There exists no word for these intuitions; when man sees them he grows dumb, or else he speaks only in forbidden metaphors and in unheard — of combinations of concepts. He does this so that by shattering and mocking the old conceptual barriers he may at least correspond creatively to the impression of the powerful present intuition." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A little poison now and then: that maketh pleasant dreams. And much poison at last for a pleasant death." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What makes life 'worth living'? - The awareness that there is something for which one is ready to risk one's life" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"All thy passions in the end became virtues, and all thy devils, angels." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The crowd of influences streaming on the young soul is so great, the clods of barbarism and violence flung at him so strange and overwhelming, that an assumed stupidity is his only refuge." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Every smallest step in the field of free thinking, and of the personally formed life, has ever been fought for at the cost of spiritual and physical tortures . . . change has required its innumerable martyrs. . . . Nothing has been bought more dearly than that little bit of human reason and sense of freedom that is now the basis of our pride." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"But if you have an enemy, do not requite him evil with good, for that would put him to shame. Rather prove that he did you some good. And rather be angry than put to shame. And if you are cursed, I do not like that you want to bless. Rather join a little in the cursing." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One will rarely err if extreme actions be ascribed to vanity, ordinary actions to habit, and mean actions to fear." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Madness is the exception in individuals but the rule in groups." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Free, dost thou call thyself? Thy ruling thought would I hear of, and not that thou hast escaped from a yoke.Art thou one ENTITLED to escape from a yoke? Many a one hath cast away his final worth when he hath cast away his servitude.Free from what? What doth that matter to Zarathustra! Clearly, however, shall thine eye show unto me: free FOR WHAT?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Association with other people corrupts our character; especially when we have none." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"But by my love and hope I beseech you: do not throw away the hero in your soul! Keep sacred your highest hope!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Warning to the despised. – If you have unmistakably sunk in the estimation of men you should hold on like grim death to decorum in society with others: otherwise you will betray to them that you have sunk in your own estimation too. When a man is cynical in society it is a sign that he treats himself like a dog when he is alone." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We sleepwalkers of the day! We artists! We who conceal naturalness! We who are moon- and God-struck! We untiring wanderers, silent as death, on heights that we see not as heights but as our plains, as our safety." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"رأيت راعيا شابا يتلوى، مختنقا مرتعدا، متقلص الوجه، وثعبان أسود ثقيل يتدلى من فمه.هل رأيت مثل هذا القرف و الذعر الشديدين على وجه آدمي من قبل؟ لقد نام دون شك فسلل الثعبان الى حلقه، وهناك عض بكل ما أوتي من القوه.أمسكت بالثعبان و سحبت، وسحبت.. لكن عبثا! لم تستطع يدي أن تقتلع الثعبان من الحلق. عندها ندت عني صرخه:عـض! عـض! اقطع الرأس! عــض" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"16 Over the footbridge.— In our relations with people who are bashful about their feelings, we must be capable of dissimulation; they feel a sudden hatred against anyone who catches them in a tender, enthusiastic, or elevated feeling, as if he had seen their secrets. If you want to make them feel good at such moments, you have to make them laugh or voice some cold but witty sarcasm; then their feeling freezes and they regain power over themselves. But I am giving you the moral before telling the story. There was a time in our lives when we were so close that nothing seemed to obstruct our friendship and brotherhood, and only a small footbridge separated us. Just as you were about to step on it, I asked you: 'Do you want to cross the footbridge to me?' —Immediately, you did not want to any more; and when I asked you again, you remained silent. Since then mountains and torrential rivers and whatever separates and alienates have been cast between us, and even if we wanted to get together, we couldn't. But when you now think of that little footbridge, words fail you and you sob and marvel." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The true world -- we have abolished. What world has remained? The apparent one perhaps? But no! With the true world we have also abolished the apparent one." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Dare only to believe in yourselves- in yourselves and in your inward parts! He who does not believe in himself always lies." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When a woman has scholarly inclinations there is generally something wrong with her sexual nature." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Was that - life?"" I will say to death. ""Very well! Once more!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I will teach men the meaning of their existence: the Superman, the lightning out of the dark cloud- man." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"No price is too high to pay for the privilege of owning yourself." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"إن حياة الإنسان محفوفة بالأخطار، وهي فوق ذلك لا معنى لها." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To stay cheerful when involved in a gloomy and exceedingly responsible business is no inconsiderable art: yet what could be more necessary than cheerfulness? Nothing succeeds in which high spirits play no part. Only excess of strength is proof of strength." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What is love but understanding and rejoicing that another lives, works, and feels in a different and opposite way to ourselves? That love may be able to bridge over the contrasts by joys, we must not remove or deny those contrasts." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Nu te ataşa de o persoană: fie ea cea mai dragă dintre toate, - fiecare persoană este o temniţă şi, totodată, un ungher. Nu te lăsa ataşat de un sentiment de compătimire: nici măcar pentru oamenii superiori al căror martiriu deosebit şi a căror neajutorare o descoperi întâmplător. Nu te ataşa de o ştiinţă: chiar dacă vreuna te-ar ademeni cu inestimabile descoperiri ce par să-ti fie hărăzite de-a dreptul ţie. Nu te ataşa de propria-ţi detaşare, de nicio depărtare voluptuoasă, ţinut îmbătător al păsării ce zboară din ce în ce mai sus, pentru a zări sub ea o întindere mereu crescândă: - primejdia celui ce zboară. Nu te ataşa de propriile-ti virtuţi, nu te jertfi în întregime pentru un oarecare şi unic detaliu, de exemplu pentru „ospitalitatea' ta: aceasta e primejdia primejdiilor pentru sufletele alese şi bogate care, risipitoare şi aproape nepăsătoare faţă de ele însele, împing virtutea generozităţii până la viciu. Trebuie să ştii să te păstrezi: iată cea mai bună dovadă a independenţei." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Read from a distant star the majuscule script of our earthly existence would perhaps tempt one to conclude that the earth is the ascetic planet par excellence, a nook of discontented, arrogant, and repulsive creatures who could not get rid of a deep displeasure with themselves, with the earth, with all life and who caused themselves as much pain as possible out of pleasure in causing pain:―probably their only pleasure." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is terrible to die of thirst on the sea. Does your truth have to be so salty that it can no longer even—quench thirst?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I want, once and for all,not to know many things.Wisdom requires moderation in knowledgeas in other things." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The man who is to be great is the one who can be the most solitary, the most hidden, the most deviant, the man beyond good and evil, lord of his virtues, a man lavishly endowed with will - this is precisely what greatness is to be called: it is able to be as much a totality as something multi-faceted, as wide as it is full" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Let us finally consider how naive it is altogether to say: ""Man ought to be such and such!"" Reality shows us an enchanting wealth of types, the abundance of a lavish play and change of forms — and some wretched loafer of a moralist comments: ""No! Man ought to be different."" He even knows what man should be like, this wretched bigot and prig: he paints himself on the wall and comments, ""Ecce homo!"" But even when the moralist addresses himself only to the single human being and says to him, ""You ought to be such and such!"" he does not cease to make himself ridiculous. The single human being is a piece of fatum from the front and from the rear, one law more, one necessity more for all that is yet to come and to be. To say to him, ""Change yourself!"" is to demand that everything be changed, even retroactively. And indeed there have been consistent moralists who wanted man to be different, that is, virtuous — they wanted him remade in their own image, as a prig: to that end, they negated the world! No small madness! No modest kind of immodesty!	Morality, insofar as it condemns for its own sake, and not out of regard for the concerns, considerations, and contrivances of life, is a specific error with which one ought to have no pity — an idiosyncrasy of degenerates which has caused immeasurable harm.	We others, we immoralists, have, conversely, made room in our hearts for every kind of understanding, comprehending, and approving. We do not easily negate; we make it a point of honor to be affirmers. More and more, our eyes have opened to that economy which needs and knows how to utilize everything that the holy witlessness of the priest, the diseased reason in the priest, rejects — that economy in the law of life which finds an advantage even in the disgusting species of the prigs, the priests, the virtuous. What advantage? But we ourselves, we immoralists, are the answer." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"God has given us music so that firstly we are lead towards higher things. Music combines all characteristics in it. It can elevate, it can tease, it can cheer us up, yes, it can even break the most brazen temperament with its tender and yearning sounds. However, its main aim is to direct our thinking towards higher things, to elevate and even deeply disturb us…" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"At present, however, science, spurred on by its powerful delusion, is hurrying unstoppably to its limits, where the optimism hidden in the essence of logic will founder and break up. For there is an infinite number of points on the periphery of the circle of science, and while we have no way of foreseeing how the circle could ever be completed, a noble and gifted man inevitably encounters, before the mid-point of his existence, boundary points on the periphery like this, where he stares into that which cannot be illuminated. When, to his horror, he sees how logic curls up around itself at these limits and finally bites its own tail, then a new form of knowledge breaks through, tragic knowledge, which, simply to be endured, needs art for protection and as medicine.' Friedrich Nietzsche, 'Foreword to Richard Wagner' in The Birth of Tragedy, ed. R. Geuss & R. Speirs, Cambridge, 2007, 163. (p.114)" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is only great pain--that slow, sustained pain that takes its time, in which we are, as it were, burned with smoldering green firewood--that forces us philosophers to sink to our ultimate profundity and to do away with all the trust, everything good-natured, veil-imposing, mild and middling, on which we may have previously based our humanity. I doubt that such a pain makes us 'better'--but I know that it makes us deeper." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"ابتداءً من تلك اللحظة ستغدو كتاباتي كلها صنارات صيد - لعل لي خبرة في الصيد أكثر من أي كان؟.. وإذا ما لم يكن هنالك من صيد قد حصل، فذلك ليس ذنبي. السمك هو الذي لا يوجد.." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"أحب من يعيش ليتعلم ، ومن يتوق الى المعرفة ليحيا الرجل المتفوق بعده ، فإن هذا ما يقصد طالب المعرفة من زواله." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"My thoughts on the descent of our moral prejudices – for that is what this polemic is about – were first set out in a sketchy and provisional way in the collection of aphorisms entitled Human, All Too Human. A Book for Free Spirits, which I began to write in Sorrento during a winter that enabled me to pause, like a wanderer pauses, to take in the vast and dangerous land through which my mind had hitherto travelled. This was in the winter of 1876–7; the thoughts themselves go back further. They were mainly the same thoughts which I shall be taking up again in the present essays – let us hope that the long interval has done them good, that they have become riper, brighter, stronger and more perfect! The fact that I still stick to them today, and that they themselves in the meantime have stuck together increasingly firmly, even growing into one another and growing into one, makes me all the more blithely confident that from the first, they did not arise in me individually, randomly or sporadically but as stemming from a single root, from a fundamental will to knowledge deep inside me which took control, speaking more and more clearly and making ever clearer demands. And this is the only thing proper for a philosopher. We have no right to stand out individually: we must not either make mistakes or hit on the truth individually. Instead, our thoughts, values, every ‘yes', ‘no', ‘if ' and ‘but' grow from us with the same inevitability as fruits borne on the tree – all related and referring to one another and a testimonial to one will, one health, one earth, one sun. – Do you like the taste of our fruit? – But of what concern is that to the trees? And of what concern is it to us philosophers? . . ." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Moral for psychologists. -- Not to go in for backstairs psychology. Never to observe in order to observe! That gives a false perspective, leads to squinting and something forced and exaggerated. Experience as the wish to experience does not succeed. One must not eye oneself while having an experience; else the eye becomes ""an evil eye."" A born psychologist guards instinctively against seeing in order to see; the same is true of the born painter. He never works ""from nature""; he leaves it to his instinct, to his camera obscura, to sift through and express the ""case,"" ""nature,"" that which is ""experienced."" He is conscious only of what is general, of the conclusion, the result: he does not know arbitrary abstractions from an individual case.What happens when one proceeds differently? For example, if, in the manner of the Parisian novelists, one goes in for backstairs psychology and deals in gossip, wholesale and retail? Then one lies in wait for reality, as it were, and every evening one brings home a handful of curiosities. But note what finally comes of all this: a heap of splotches, a mosaic at best, but in any case something added together, something restless, a mess of screaming colors. The worst in this respect is accomplished by the Goncourts; they do not put three sentences together without really hurting the eye, the psychologist's eye. Nature, estimated artistically, is no model. It exaggerates, it distorts, it leaves gaps. Nature is chance. To study ""from nature"" seems to me to be a bad sign: it betrays submission, weakness, fatalism; this lying in the dust before petit faits [little facts] is unworthy of a whole artist. To see what is--that is the mark of another kind of spirit, the anti-artistic, the factual. One must know who one is.Toward a psychology of the artist. -- If there is to be art, if there is to be any aesthetic doing and seeing, one physiological condition is indispensable: frenzy. Frenzy must first have enhanced the excitability of the whole machine; else there is no art. All kinds of frenzy, however diversely conditioned, have the strength to accomplish this: above all, the frenzy of sexual excitement, this most ancient and original form of frenzy. Also the frenzy that follows all great cravings, all strong affects; the frenzy of feasts, contests, feats of daring, victory, all extreme movement; the frenzy of cruelty; the frenzy in destruction, the frenzy under certain meteorological influences, as for example the frenzy of spring; or under the influence of narcotics; and finally the frenzy of will, the frenzy of an overcharged and swollen will. What is essential in such frenzy is the feeling of increased strength and fullness. Out of this feeling one lends to things, one forces them to accept from us, one violates them--this process is called idealizing. Let us get rid of a prejudice here: idealizing does not consist, as is commonly held, in subtracting or discounting the petty and inconsequential. What is decisive is rather a tremendous drive to bring out the main features so that the others disappear in the process.In this state one enriches everything out of one's own fullness: whatever one sees, whatever one wills, is seen swelled, taut, strong, overloaded with strength. A man in this state transforms things until they mirror his power--until they are reflections of his perfection. This having to transform into perfection is--art. Even everything that he is not yet, becomes for him an occasion of joy in himself; in art man enjoys himself as perfection." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"That which is ready to fall, shall ye also push!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"And only where there are graves are there resurrections." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Verily, I have often laughed at the weaklings, who think themselves good because they have crippled paws!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"دوست می‌دارم آن را که چون تاس به سودش افتد، شرمسار شود و پرسد: نکند قماربازی فریبکار باشم؟ زیرا که خواهان فناست." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Somebody said: ""About two persons I have never reflected very thoroughly: that is the testimony of my love for them." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There are various eyes. Even the Sphinx has eyes: and as a result there are various truths, and as a result there is no truth." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"These solitary ones who are free in spirit know thatin one thing or another they must constantly put on an appearance that is different from the way they think; although they want nothing but truth and honesty, they are entangled in a web of misunderstandings. And despite their keen desire, they cannot prevent a fog of false opinions, of accommodation, of halfway concessions, of indulgent silence, of erroneous interpretation from settling on everything they do. And so a cloud of melancholy gathers around their brow, for such natures hate the necessity of appearances more than death, and their persistent bitterness about this makes them volatile and menacing. From time to time they take revenge for their violent selfconcealment, for their coerced constraint. They emerge from their caves with horrible expressions on their faces; at such times their words and deeds are explosions, and it is even possible for them to destroy themselves." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"All beings so far have created something beyond themselves" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Behind your thoughts and feelings, my brother, there is a mighty lord, an unknown sage - his name is self; he dwells in your body, he is your body.There is more reason in your body than in your best wisdom." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The anthropological criminologists tell us that the typical criminal is ugly: monstrum in fronte, monstrum in animo [monstrous in appearance, monstrous in spirit]." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Men have hitherto treated women like birds which have strayed down to them from the heights; as something more delicate, more fragile, more savage, stranger, sweeter, soulful – but as something which has to be caged up so that it shall not fly away." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"انسان از آغازِ وجود خودرا بسی کم شاد کرده است. برادران «گناهِ نخستین» همین است و همین!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"إنكم تدعون إلى مكابرة الأرض ومجالدتها أيها المجدفون، والأرض صابرة عليكم صبرها الجميل" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The awakened and knowing say: body I am entirely, and nothing else; and soul is only a word for something about the body." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"آدمی را ارزش‌های دروغین و کلام‌های پوچ هولناک‌ترین هیولاست!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Let us look one another in the face. We are Hyperboreans—we know well enough how much out of the way we live. 'Neither by land nor sea shalt thou find the road to the Hyperboreans': Pindar already knew that of us. Beyond the North, beyond the ice, beyond death—our life, our happiness.... We have discovered happiness, we know the road, we have found the exit out of whole millennia of labyrinth. Who else has found it? Modern man perhaps? 'I know not which way to turn; I am everything that knows not which way to turn,' sighs modern man.... It was from this modernity that we were ill—from lazy peace, from cowardly compromise, from the whole virtuous uncleanliness of modern Yes and No. This tolerance and largeur of heart which 'forgives' everything because it 'Understands' everything is sirocco to us. Better to live among ice than among modern virtues and other south winds! ...We were brave enough, we spared neither ourselves nor others: but for long we did not know where to apply our courage. We became gloomy, we were called fatalists. Our fatality—was the plenitude, the tension, the blocking-up of our forces. We thirsted for lightning and action, of all things we kept ourselves furthest from the happiness of the weaklings, from 'resignation'.... There was a thunderstorm in our air, the nature which we are grew dark—for we had no road. Formula of our happiness: a Yes, a No, a straight line, a goal..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Though I may seem at times somewhat distant from you, through the gray mist of my own moods, I am never far; my thoughts always circle around you." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"New caution.— Let us stop thinking so much about punishing, reproaching, and improving others! We rarely change an individual, and if we should succeed for once, something may also have been accomplished, unnoticed: we may have been changed by him. Let us rather see to it that our own influence on all that is yet to come balances and outweighs his influence. Let us not contend in a direct fight—and that is what all reproaching, punishing, and attempts to improve others amount to. Let us rather raise ourselves that much higher. Let us color our own example ever more brilliantly. Let our brilliance make them look dark. No, let us not become darker ourselves on their account, like ail those who punish others and feel dissatisfied. Let us sooner step aside. Let us look away.46" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Here and there on earth there is probably a kind of continuation of love; in which this greedy desire of two people for each other gives way to a new desire and greed, a shared higher thirst for an ideal above them. But who knows such love? who has experienced it? Its true name is friendship" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Marriage as a long conversation. When entering a marriage, one should ask the question: do you think you will be able to have good conversations with this woman right into old age? Everything else in marriage is transitory, but most of the time in interaction is spent in conversation." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Willing emancipates: for willing is creating: so do I teach. And only for creating shall you learn!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We are unknown to ourselves, we men of knowledge--and with good reason. We have never sought ourselves--how could it happen that we should ever find ourselves?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A friendly voice seldom reaches me nowadays. I am alone now, absurdly alone; and in the course of my relentless and underground struggle against everything that human beings till now have revered and loved, I have imperceptibly become something like a lair myself - something hidden away, which people do not find, even if they go out and look for it. But people do not go out in search of such things…" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"…how ready they themselves are at bottom to make one pay; how they crave to be hangmen. There is among them an abundance of the vengeful disguised as judges, who constantly bear the word 'justice' in their mouths like poisonous spittle, always with pursed lips, always ready to spit upon all who are not discontented but go their own way in good spirits…The will of the weak to represent some form of superiority, their instinct for devious paths to tyranny over the healthy – where can it not be discovered, this will to power of the weakest!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"My task: the dehumanization of Nature, and then the naturalization of humanity, after it has attained the pure concept of 'Nature'. Human beings and philosophers have in the past projected the human into nature — let us dehumanize nature." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In woman's love there is injustice and blindness to all she does not love. And even in woman's conscious love, there is still always attack and lightning and night, along with the light." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Îmi cunosc soarta. Cândva se va lega de numele meu amintirea a ceva monstruos – a unei crize cum nu a mai existat pe pământ, a celei mai profunde ciocniri de conştiinţe, a unei decizii conjurate împotriva a tot ceea ce se crezuse, se ceruse, se considerase sfânt până atunci. Eu nu sunt om, eu sunt dinamită." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Intoxicating joy it is for the sufferer to look away from his suffering and forget himself. Intoxicating joy and self-forgetting, the world once seemed to me." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The whole attitude of 'man against the world', of man as a 'world-negating' principle, of a man as the measure of the value of things, as judge of the world who places existence itself on his scales and finds it too light - the monstrous stupidity of this attitude has finally dawned on us and we are sick of it; we laugh as soon as we encounter the juxtaposition of 'man and world', separated by the sublime presumptuosness of the little word 'and!' But by laughing, haven't we simply taken contempt for man one step further?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Once the soul looked contemptuously upon the body, and then that contempt was the supreme thing: - the soul wished the body lean, monstrous, and famished. Thus it thought to escape from the body and the earth. But that soul was itself lean, monstrous, and famished; and cruelty was the delight of this soul! So my brothers, tell me: What does your body say about your soul? Is not your soul poverty and filth and miserable self-complacency?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Most books are born from the smoke and vapour of the brain: and to vapour and smoke may they well return. For having no fire within themselves, they shall be visited with fire." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"آدمی البته با دهانش دروغ می گوید اما با حالت دک و پوزش حقیقت را بیان میکند " -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What if, some day or night, a demon were to steal after you in your loneliest loneliness and say to you: 'This life as you now live it and have lived it, you will have to live once more and innumerable times more; and there will be nothing new in it, but every pain and every joy and every thought and sigh and everything unutterably small or great in your life will have to return to you, all in the same succession and sequence—even this spider and this moonlight between the trees, and even this moment and I myself. The eternal hourglass of existence is turned upside down again and again—and you with it, speck of dust!'... Would you not throw yourself down and gnash your teeth and curse the demon who spoke thus? Or have you once experienced a tremendous moment when you would have answered him: 'You are a god and never have I heard anything more divine." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Aphorisms should be peaks – and those who are addressed, tall and lofty. The air thin and pure, danger near, and the spirit full of gay sarcasm: these go well together." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"As soon as you feel yourself against me you have ceased to understand my position and consequently my arguments! You have to be the victim of the same passion!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"This crown of the laughter, the rosary crown: to you, my brothers, I throw this crown! I pronounced laughter holy: you higher men, learn — to laugh!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I praise, I do not reproach, [nihilism's] arrival. I believe it is one of the greatest crises, a moment of the deepest self-reflection of humanity. Whether man recovers from it, whether he becomes master of this crisis, is a question of his strength" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is the stillest words which bring the storm." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"لا تطلبوا ما يفوق طاقتكم, هناك زيف خبيث لدى أولئك الذين يرومون أشياء تفوق طاقتهم" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The abdomen is the reason why man does not easily take himself for a god." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Behold the good and just! Whom do they hate most? The man who breaks their tables of values, the breaker, the lawbreaker:- yet he is the creator." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is difficult and painful for the ear to listen to anything new; we hear strange music badly." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Benditos sean los olvidadizos pues superan, incluso, sus propios errores" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is to be hoped, indeed, that LANGUAGE, here as elsewhere, will not get over its awkwardness, and that it will continue to talk of opposites where there are only degrees and many refinements of gradation" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The solitary speaks.""One receives as a reward for much ennui , ill-humour and boredom, such as a solitude without friends, books, duties or passions must entail, one harvests those quarters of an hour of the deepest immersion in oneself and nature. He who completely entrenches himself against boredom also entrenches himself against himself: he will never get to drink the most potent refreshing draught from the deepest well of his own being." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Direct self-observation is not nearly sufficient for us to know ourselves: we need history, for the past flows on within us in a hundred waves; indeed, we ourselves are nothing but that which at every moment we experience of this continual flowing." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The beast lives unhistorically; for it 'goes into' the present, like a number, without leaving any curious remainder." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There are many good inventions on earth, some useful, some pleasing: for their sake, the earth is to be loved. And there is such a variety of well-invented things that the earth is like the breasts of a woman: useful as well as pleasing." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Loneliness is one thing, solitude is another." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In the mountains the shortest way is from peak to peak; but for that one must have long legs. Aphorisms should be peaks – and those who are addressed, tall and lofty." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"O sky above me, you modest, glowing sky! O you, my happiness before sunrise! Day is coming: so let us part!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Il cristianesimo dette da bere il veleno a Eros. Questi non ne morì, ma ben degenerò, in vizio." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Why did you live so long in the swamp that you yourself had to become a frog and a toad?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Doing nothing is more expedient than doing something." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Men need play & danger. Civilization gives them work and safety." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Of all that is written, I love only what a person hath written with his blood. Write with blood, and thou wilt find that blood is spirit." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Zarathustra, the first to recognize that the optimist is just as degenerate as the pessimist though perhaps more detrimental says: 'Good men never speak the truth.  The Good preach of false shores and false security.  You were born and bred in the lies of the good.  Through the good everything has become false and twisted down to the very roots'.  Fortunately the world is not built solely to serve good natured herd animals their little happiness  ; to desire everybody to become a 'good man', 'a herd animal', blue-eyed, benevolent, 'a beautiful soul'— or, as Herbert Spencer wished—altruistic, would mean robbing existence of its great character, to castrate mankind and reduce humanity to a sort of wretched Chinadom. And this some have tried to do!  It is precisely this that men have called morality. " -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What if some day or night a demon were to steal after you into your loneliest loneliness and say to you: 'This life as you now live it and have lived it, you will have to live once more and innumerable times more; and there will be nothing new in it, but every painand every joy and every thought and sigh and everything unutterably small or great in your life will have to return to you, all in the same succession and sequence ... 'Would you not throw yourself down and gnash your teeth and curse the demon whospoke thus? Or have you once experienced a tremendous moment when you would haveanswered him, 'You are a god and never have I heard anything more divine.' ...The question in each and every thing, 'Do you desire this once more and innumerabletimes more?' would lie upon your actions as the greatest weight." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What is happiness? The feeling that power is growing, that resistance is overcome." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"شادکامی مرد این است: من می خواهمشادکامی زن این است: او می خواهد" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"138. We do the same when awake as when dreaming: we only invent and imagine him with whom we have intercourse—and forget it immediately." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We find other people's vanity contrary to our taste only when it is contrary to our vanity." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The sum of the inner movements which a man finds easy and as a consequence performs gracefully and with pleasure, one calls his soul; if these inner movements are plainly difficult and an effort for him, he is considered soulless." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"فى حالة المرض يغدو الإنسان عاجزا عن التخلّص من أى شئ, عاجزا عن الحسم فى أى شئ, وعاجزا عن رد اى شئ, كل شئ يغدو جارحا؟" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"إن الاخلاقيات - سيرك البشرية - قد زيفت كل شيء سيكولوجيًا من البداية حتى النهاية" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Is language the adequate expression of all realities?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Deniz kıyısında bir ihtiyar taşçı kayayı yontmaktadır. Güneş onu yakıp kavurur. O da Tanrıya yakarır keşke güneş olsaydım diye. ""Ol"" der Tanrı. Güneş oluverir. Fakat bulutlar gelir örter güneşi, hükmü kalmaz. Bulut olmak ister. ""Ol"" der Tanrı. Bulut olur. Rüzgar alır götürür bulutu, rüzgarın oyuncağı olur. Rüzgar olmak ister bu kez. Ona da ""Ol"" der Tanrı. Rüzgar her yere egemen olur, fırtına olur, kasırga olur. Herşey karşısında eğilir. Tam keyfi yerindeyken koca bir kayaya rastlar. Ordan esen burdan eser, kaya banamısın demez! Bildiniz, Tanrı kaya olmasına da izin verir. Dimdik ve güçlü durmaktadır artık dünyaya karşı... Sırtında bir acı ile uyanır.... Bir ihtiyar taşçı kayayı yontmaktadır. .." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"في المعـرفة يتطهر الجسـد ، وفي المجاهدة من أجل المعــرفة يرتقي العارف بنفسه ، مقدسة تغدو كل الغرائز لدى العــارف ، والذي بلغ السمو ، مرحــة تغدو روحه ." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The Church today is more likely to alienate than to seduce..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"No one can build you the bridge on which you, and only you, must cross the river of life. There may be countless trails and bridges and demigods who would gladly carry you across; but only at the price of pawning and forgoing yourself. There is one path in the world that none can walk but you. Where does it lead? Don't ask, walk!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Must one first batter their ears, that they may learn to hear with their eyes? Must one clatter like kettledrums and penitential preachers? Or do they only believe the stammerer?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"My paradise is in the shadow of my sword." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The worst things, however, are the petty thoughts. Verily, better to have done evilly than to have thought pettily!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I should only believe in a God that would know how to dance.And when I saw my devil, I found him serious, thorough, profound, solemn: he was the spirit of gravity - through him all things fall.Not by wrath, but by laughter do we slay. Come, let us slay the spirit of gravity!I learned to walk; since then have I let myself run. I learned to fly; since then I do not need pushing in order to move from a spot.Now I am light, now do I fly; now do I see myself under myself. Now there danceth a God in me." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A hearty meal is easier to digest than one that is too small." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Our faith in others betrays that we would rather have faith in ourselves." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Even your silence wants to choke me, you who are so abysmally silent." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What is the greatest thing you can experience? It is the hour of your greatest contempt. The hour in which even your happiness becomes loathsome to you, and so also your reason and virtue." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"All truth is simple... is that not doubly a lie?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"در این سخن چه چیزی تو را ترساند؟ باری، این سخنی است همان اندازه در بابِ انسان که در بابِ درخت. او هرچه بیشتر بخواهد به سوی بلندی و نور سرافرازد، ریشه هایش سخت‌تر می کوشند در زمین فروروند، در فروسو در تاریکی، در ژرفنا-در شرّ!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Knowing one's 'individuality'. - We are too prone to forget that in the eyes of people who are seeing us for the first time we are something quite different from what we consider ourselves to be: usually we are nothing more than a single individual trait which leaps to the eye and determines the whole impression that we make." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A small company is more welcome to me than a bad one: but they must come and go at the right time. So does it accord with good sleep." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Verily, a polluted stream is man. One must be a sea, to receive a polluted stream without becoming impure." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"My conception of freedom. — The value of a thing sometimes does not lie in that which one attains by it, but in what one pays for it — what it costs us. I give an example. Liberal institutions cease to be liberal as soon as they are attained: later on, there are no worse and no more thorough injurers of freedom than liberal institutions. One knows, indeed, what their ways bring: they undermine the will to power; they level mountain and valley, and call that morality; they make men small, cowardly, and hedonistic [genüsslich] — every time it is the herd animal that triumphs with them. Liberalism: in other words, herd-animalization." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"الحقيقة لا تقوم في الشفافية ولا في وضوح الأفكار، لأن كل وضوح مخادع. والأسلوب القائم على نزع الأقنعة والتعرية عليه أن ينزع ويعري إلى ما لا نهاية من دون أن يستطيع الزعم بأنه رفع القناع الأخير." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"My soul is calm and clear, like the mountains in the morning. But they think I am cold, and a mocker with terrible jests." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The drive to knowledge has become too strong for us to be able to want happiness without knowledge or of a strong, firmly rooted delusion; even to imaginesuch a state of things is painful to us! Restless discovering and divining has such an attraction for us, and has grown as indispensable to us as is to the lover his unrequited love, which he would at no price relinquish for a state of indifference – perhaps,indeed, we too are unrequited lovers." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"truths are illusions of which one has forgotten that they are illusions, metaphors that have become worn-out and deprived of their sensuous force, coins that have lost their imprint and are now no longer seen as coins but as metal." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To dance is to be out of yourself. Larger, more beautiful, more powerful. This is power, it is glory on earth and it is yours for the taking." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Madness is rare in individuals - but in groups, political parties, nations, and eras it's the rule." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"أحمق هو الذى مازال يتعثر فى حجر أو فى بشر" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I found life easy, easiest, when it demanded the most difficult things of me." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Not necessity, not desire- no, the love of power isthe demon of men." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Reaction against the machine-culture. - The machine, itself a product of the highest intellectual energies, sets in motion in those who server it almost nothing but the lower, non-intellectual energies. It thereby releases a vast quantity of energy in general that would otherwise lie dormant, it is true; but it provides no instigation to enhancement, to improvement, to becoming an artist. It makes men active and uniform - but in the long run this engenders a counter-effect, a despairing boredom of soul, which teaches to long for idleness in all it varieties." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"On this perfect day, when everything is ripening and not only the grape turns brown, the eye of the sun just fell upon my life: I looked back, I looked forward, and never saw so many and such good things at once. It was not for nothing that I buried my forty-fourth year today; I had the right to bury it; whatever was life in it has been saved, is immortal. The first book of the Revaluation of All Values, the Songs of Zarathustra, the Twilight of the Idols, my attempt to philosophize with a hammer—all presents of this year, indeed of its last quarter! How could I fail to be grateful to my whole life?—and so I tell my life to myself." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Religion has debased the concept ""man""; its ultimate consequence is that everything good, great, true is superhuman and bestowed only through an act of grace—" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"إننى لم أجد المرأة التى تصلح أما لأبنائى إلا المرأة التى أحبها." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"No one tells me anything new, so I tell myself my own story." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Whoever fights monsters should see to it that in the process he does not become a monster. And when you look long into the abyss, the abyss also looks into you.—Nietzsche." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"و مگر معنای تجربه، همیشه داشتن تجربه ی بد نیست؟نیچه - فراسوی نیک و بد" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Beethoven's music is music about music." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Any human being who does not wish to be part of the masses need only stop making things easy for himself. Let him follow his conscience, which calls out to him: ""Be yourself! All that you are now doing, thinking, desiring, all that is not you.""Every young soul hears this call by day and by night and shudders with excitement at the premonition of that degree of happiness which eternities have prepared for those who will give thought to their true liberation. There is no way to help any soul attain this happiness, however, so long as it remains shackled with the chains of opinion and fear. And how hopeless and meaningless life can become without such a liberation! There is no drearier, sorrier creature in nature than the man who has evaded his own genius and who squints now towards the right, now towards the left, now backwards, now in any direction whatever." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Excess of strength alone is proof of strength" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"You have made your way from worm to man, and much in you is still worm." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"تنها بدان خدایی ایمان دارم که رقص بداند" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The great epochs of our life are at the points when we gain courage to rebaptize our badness as the best in us." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"as the ""people of the centre"" in everysense of the term, the Germans are more intangible, more ample, more contradictory, more unknown, more incalculable, more surprising, and even more terrifying than other peoples are to themselves:--they escape DEFINITION, and are thereby alone the despair of the French." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"All beings so far have created something beyond themselves. Do you want to be the ebb of that great tide, and revert back to the beast rather than surpass mankind? What is the ape to a man? A laughing-stock, a thing of shame. And just so shall a man be to the Superman: a laughing-stock, a thing of shame. You have evolved from worm to man, but much within you is still worm. Once you were apes, yet even now man is more of an ape than any of the apes." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"إرادة التغلب على أشعور ما, هي آخر الأمر مجرد إرادة أشعور آخر أو عدة أشاعير أخرى" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Not every end is the goal. The end of a melody is not its goal; and yet: as long as the melody has not reached its end, it also hasn't reached its goal. A parable." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Only cast your pure eyes into the well of my delight, friends! You will not dim its sparkle! It shall laugh back at you with its purity." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Work and boredom.- Looking for work in order to be paid: in civilized countries today almost all men are at one in doing that. For all of them work is a means and not an end in itself. Hence they are not very refined in their choice of work, if only it pays well. But there are, if only rarely, men who would rather perish than work without any pleasure in their work. They are choosy, hard to satisfy, and do not care for ample rewards. if the work itself is not the reward of rewards. Artists and contemplative men all kinds belong· to this rare breed, but so do even those men of leisure who spend their lives hunting, traveling, or in love affairs and adventures. All of these desire work and misery if only it is associated with pleasure. and the hardest, most difficult work if necessary. Otherwise. their idleness is resolute. even if it speIls impoverishment, dishonor, and danger to life and limb. They do not fear boredom as much as work without pleasure; they actually require a lot of boredom if their work is to succeed. For thinkers and all sensitive spirits, boredom is that disagreeable ""windless calm"" of the soul that precedes a happy voyage and cheerful winds. They have to bear it and must wait for its effect on them. Precisely this is what lesser natures cannot achieve by any means. To ward off boredom at any cost is vulgar, no less than work without pleasure. Perhaps Asians are distinguished above Europeans by a capacity for longer, deeper calm; even their opiates have a slow effect and require patience, as opposed to the disgusting suddenness of the European poison, alcohol." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"How changed Zarathustra is! Zarathustra has become a child, an awakened one. What do you plan to do in the land of the sleepers? You have been floating in a sea of solitude, and the sea has borne you up. At long last, are you ready for dry land? Are you ready to drag yourself ashore?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"history would be nothing but a record of stupidity save for the cunning" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We are unknown to ourselves, we knowers, and with good reason. We have never looked at ourselves." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What does nihilism mean? That the highest values devaluate themselves. The aim is lacking; 'why?' finds no answer." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In the teaching of socialism 'a will to the denial of life' is but poorly concealed: botched men and races they must be who have devised a teaching of this sort. In fact, I even wish a few experiments might be made to show that in socialistic society life denies itself, and itself cuts away its own roots. The earth is big enough and man is still unexhausted enough for a practical lesson of this sort and demonstratio ad absurdum― even if it were accomplished only by a vast expenditure of lives―to seem worth while to me." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"واحد فقط إلى جانبى كاف ليكون فائضا عن اللزوم" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Fellow man! Your whole life, like a sandglass, will always be reversed and will ever run out again, — a long minute of time will elapse until all those conditions out of which you were evolved return in the wheel of the cosmic process. And then you will find every pain and every pleasure, every friend and every enemy, every hope and every error, every blade of grass and every ray of sunshine once more, and the whole fabric of things which make up your life. This ring in which you are but a grain will glitter afresh forever. And in every one of these cycles of human life there will be one hour where, for the first time one man, and then many, will perceive the mighty thought of the eternal recurrence of all things: — and for mankind this is always the hour of Noon." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Hypocrisy has its place in the ages of strong belief: in which even when one is compelled to exhibit a different belief one does not abandon the belief on already has." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"As long as the sole ruler and disposer of the universe, the , remained excluded from artistic activity, things were mixed together in a primeval chaos: this was what Euripides must have thought; and so, as the first ""sober"" one among them, he had to condemn the ""drunken"" poets. Sophocles said of Aeschylus that he did what was right, though he did it unconsciously. This was surely not how Euripides saw it. He might have said that Aeschylus,  he created unconsciously, did what was . The divine Plato, too, almost always speaks only ironically of the creative faculty of the poet, insofar as it is not conscious insight, and places it on a par with the gift of the soothsayer and dream-interpreter: the poet is incapable of composing until he has become unconscious and bereft of understanding." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"ما أعذب ذلك ، أن تكون هناك كلمات و أصوات ! أليست الكلمات والأصوات أقواس قزح وجسوراً وهمية بين كائنات منفصلة إلى الأبد ؟لكل نفس عالمها المختلف ، ولكل نفس تكون كل نفس أخرى عالماً ماورائياً" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"غالبا ما يكون العرش فوق الأوحال" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Our age knows better.... What was formerly merely sickly now becomes indecent—it is indecent to be a Christian today." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"As if it were the task of every time to be just to everything before it! Ages and generations have never the right to be the judges of all previous ages and generations: only to the rarest men in them can that difficult mission fall. Who compels you to judge? If it is your wish—you must prove first that you are capable of justice. As judges, you must stand higher than that which is to be judged: as it is, you have only come later. The guests that come last to the table should rightly take the last places: and will you take the first? Then do some great and mighty deed: the place may be prepared for you then, even though you do come last." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"على المرء أن يتعلم كيف يُحب نفسه - كذا هو مذهبي الذي أعلمكم - حُباً معافى و صحياً ، كي يركن المرء إلى ذاته ولا يبدد نفسه في كل فج ." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The secret for harvesting from existence the greatest fruitfulness and greatest enjoyment is - to live dangerously." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"أن تغدو الأوراق ذابلة ، فأي داعٍ للحزن في ذلك ؟ دعهم يمضون و يسقطون أي زرادشت ، ولا تشتكي ! بل لتنفخ بالأحرى بريح عاتية من تحتهم ، انفخ من تحت الأوراق أي زرادشت ، كي يبتعد كل ذابل من أمامك بأسرع ما يمكن !" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Youth's longing misconceived inconsistency.Those whom I deemedChanged to my kin, the friends of whom I dreamed,Have aged and lost our old affinity:One has to change to stay akin to me." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Something might be true, even if it is also harmful and dangerous in the highest degree; indeed, it might be part of the essential nature of existence that to understand it completely would lead to our own destruction." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The individual has always had to struggle to keep from being overwhelmed by the tribe." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"الاخلاق هى الحساسية المرضية للمنحط مع النية الخفية فى الانتقام من الحياة" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"At the centre of all these noble races we cannot fail to see the blond beast of prey, the magnificent blond beast avidly prowling round for spoil and victory; this hidden centre needs release from time to time, the beast must out again, must return to the wild: - Roman, Arabian, Germanic, Japanese nobility, Homeric heroes, Scandinavian Vikings - in this requirement they are all alike. It was the noble races which left the concept of 'barbarian' in their traces wherever they went; even their highest culture betrays the fact that they were conscious of this and indeed proud of it." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What matters is not eternal life but eternal vivacity." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"... first learn to construct the parts properly before it ventures to fashion a great whole; ..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"برای اینکه بت پرست نباشی،کافی نیست که بت ها را شکسته باشی،باید خوی بت پرستی را ترک گفته باشی." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is not true that the unconscious goal in the evolution of every conscious being (animal, man, mankind, etc) is its 'highest happiness': the case, on the contrary, is that every stage of evolution possesses a special and incomparable happiness neither higher nor lower but simply its own. Evolution does not have happiness in view, but evolution and nothing else." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Why,"" said the saint, ""did I go into the forest and the desert? Was it not because I loved mankind far too well? Now I love God! Mankind I do not love; mankind is a thing too imperfect for me. Love of mankind would be fatal to me." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"From the beginning, nothing has been more alien, repugnant, and hostile to woman than truth -- her great art is the lie, her highest concern is mere appearance of beauty." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A good book is made better by good readers and clearer by good opponents." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Every Profound thinker is more afraid of being understood than of being misunderstood" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Haven't you heard of that madman who in the brightmorning lit a lantern and ran around the marketplace crying incessantly,'I'm looking for God! l'm looking for God!' Since many of those whodid not believe in God were standing around together just then, hecaused great laughter. Has he been lost, then? asked one. Did he lose hisway like a child? asked another. Or is he hiding? Is he afraid of us? Hashe gone to sea? Emigrated? - Thus they shouted and laughed, oneinterrupting the other. The madman jumped into their midst andpierced them with his eyes. 'Where is God?' he cried; 'I'll tel1 you! Wehave kil/ed him - you and I! Wc are all his murderers. But how did wc dothis? How were we able to drink up the sea? Who gave us the spange towipe away the entire horizon? What were we doing when we unchainedthis earth from its sun? Where is it moving to now? Where are wemoving to? Away from all suns? Are wc not continually falling? Andbackwards, sidewards, forwards, in all directions? Is there still an up anda down? Aren't we straying as though through an infinite nothing? Isn'tempty space breathing at us? Hasn't it got colder? Isn't night and morenight coming again and again? Don't lanterns have to be lit in themorning? Do we still hear nothing of the noise of the grave-diggers whoare burying God? Do we still smell nothing of the divine decomposition?- Gods, too, decompose! God is dead! God remains dead! And wehave killed him! How can we console ourselves, the murderers of allmurderers. The holiest and the mightiest thing the world has everpossessed has bled to death under our knives: who will wipe this bloodfrom us? With what water could we clean ourselves? What festivals ofatonement, what holy games will we have to invent for ourselves? Is themagnitude of this deed not too great for us? Do we not ourselves have tobecome gods merely to appear worthy of it?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There are no egoistic or unegoistic actions: both concepts are psychological absurdities." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"On a political sickbed a people is usually rejuvenated and rediscovers its spirit, after having gradually lost it in seeking and preserving power. Culture owes its peaks to politically weak ages." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Life without music is a mistake." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The fleetest beast to bear you to perfection is suffering." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"اجلس وحدك فوق بركان .. تهتتز الأرض تحتك. اجعل بيتك فوق الجبال يجب أن تعيش كالنسور وتموت مثلها .. عش فوق، ومت فوق." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Yazar olmaya utanan en iyi yazar olacaktır." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"If you still experience the stars as something ""over you,"" you still don't have the eyes of a knower." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is unworthy of great spirits to spread abroad the agitation they feel" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"This - is now  way: where is yours?' Thus I answered those who asked me 'the way'. For  way - does not exist!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The man who has come to know vice in connection with pleasure... imagines that virtue must be associated with displeasure." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Physician, heal thyself: then wilt thou also heal thy patient. Let it be his best cure to see with his eyes him who maketh himself whole." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is a comfort to me to know that above the steam and filth of human lowlands there is a higher, brighter humanity, very small in number (for everything outstanding is by its nature rare): one belongs to it, not because one is more talented or more virtuous or more heroic or more loving than the men below, but—because one is colder, brighter, more far-seeing, more solitary; because one endures, prefers, demands solitude as happiness." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is a matter for wonder: a moment, now here and then gone, nothing before it came, again nothing after it has gone, nonetheless returns as a ghost and disturbs the peace of a later moment. A leaf flutters from the scroll of time, floats away- and suddenly floats back again and falls into the man's lap. Then the man says 'I remember' and envies the animal, who at once forgets and for whom every moment really dies, sinks back into night and f og and is extinguished for ever. Thus the animal lives unhistorically: for it is contained in the present..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"If spouses did not live together, good marriages would be more frequent." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"He who writes in blood and aphorisms does not want to be read, he wants to be learned by heart." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"skepticism regarding morality is what is decisive" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"He who maketh no secret of himself shocketh; so much reason have ye to fear nakedness! Aye, if ye were Gods, ye could then be ashamed of clothing!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Am I so difficult to understand and so easy to misunderstand in all my intentions, plans, and friendships? Ah, we lonely ones and free spirits—it is borne home to us that in some way or other we constantly appear different from what we think. Whereas we wish for nothing more than truth and straightforwardness, we are surrounded by a net of misunderstanding, and despite our most ardent wishes we cannot help our actions being smothered in a cloud of false opinion, attempted compromises, semi-concessions, charitable silence, and erroneous interpretations. Such things gather a weight of melancholy on our brow; for we hate more than death the thought that pretence should be necessary, and such incessant chafing against these things makes us volcanic and menacing. From time to time we avenge ourselves for all our enforced concealment and compulsory self-restraint. We emerge from our cells with terrible faces, our words and deeds are then explosions, and it is not beyond the verge of possibility that we perish through ourselves. Thus dangerously do I live! It is precisely we solitary ones that require love and companions in whose presence we may be open and simple, and the eternal struggle of silence and dissimulation can cease." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What are man's truths ultimately? Merely his irrefutable errors." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"مثل الكوكب الذي ينطفئ ، هكذا هو كل عمل من أعمال فضيلتكم : أشعته الضوئية تظل ماضية في طريقها دوماً و متنقلة - لكم متى ستتوقف عن التوقف ؟هكذا إذاً يظل نور فضيلتكم متنقلاً حتى بعد أن يكون العمل قد أنجز وانتهى . وحتى إذا ما غدا الآن منسياً ميتاً فإن نوره يظل حياً ولا يتوقف عن التنقل" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Affirmation of life even in its strangest and sternest problems; the will to life rejoicing in its own inexhaustibility through the sacrifice of its highest types - that is what I call dionysian" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"And he will also find the little god whom girls like best: beside the well he lies, still, with his eyes shut. Verily, in bright daylight he fell asleep, the sluggard! Did he chase after the butterflies too much?... He may cry and weep - but he is laughable even when he weeps. And with tears in his eyes he shall ask you for a dance and I myself will sing a song for his dance: a dancing and mocking song on the spirit of gravity... (p.108 - The Dancing Song)" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"إن ما أريده هو أن أعيش كما أشتهي وإلا فخير لي ألا أعيش." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Die Forderung, geliebt zu werden, ist die größte der Anmaßungen." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One puts to one's lips what drives one faster into the abyss'." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"This is precisely why the Jews are the most disastrous people in world history: they have left such a falsified humanity in their wake that even today Christians can think of themselves as anti-Jewish without understanding that they are the ultimate conclusion of Judaism." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"All my human relationships have to do with a mask of me, and I must perpetually be the victim of living a completely hidden life." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"And if your friend does evil to you, say to him, ''I forgive you for what you did to me, but how can I forgive you for what you did to yourself?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Once more the priestly instinct of the Jew perpetratedthe same old master crime against history--he simply struck out the yesterday and the day before yesterday of Christianity, and invented his own history of Christian beginnings. Going further, he treated the history of Israel to another falsification, so that it became a mere prologue to his achievement: all the prophets, it now appeared, had referred to his ""Saviour.""... Later on the church even falsified the history of man in order to make it a prologue to Christianity." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"للوسطيين وحدهم أمل في التواصل والتناسل. إنهم أناس المستقبل، النّاجون الوحيدون؛ كونوا مثلهم، كونوا وسطيّين، وسيصعب عليكم حينئذ ستر المهزلة " -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Man permits himself to be lied to at night, his life long, when he dreams, and his moral sense never even tries to prevent this—although men have been said to have overcome snoring by sheer will power." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Our highest insights must – and should – sound like follies and sometimes like crimes when they are heard without permission by those who are not predisposed and predestined for them." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Dreams. ― We have no dreams at all or interesting ones. We should learn to be awake the same way ― not at all or in an interesting manner." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Independence is for the very few; it is a privilege of the strong. And whoever attempts it even with the best right but without inner constraint proves that he is probably not only strong, but also daring to the point of recklessness." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The great wars of the present age are the effects of the study of history." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"They have something of which they are proud. What do they call it, that which makes them proud? Culture, they call it; it distinguishes them from the goatherds." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"As long as a man knows very well the strength and weaknesses of his teaching, his art, his religion, its power is still slight. The pupil and apostle who, blinded by the authority of the master and by the piety he feels toward him, pays no attention to the weaknesses of a teaching, a religion, and soon usually has for that reason more power than the master. The influence of a man has never yet grown great without his blind pupils. To help a perception to achieve victory often means merely to unite it with stupidity so intimately that the weight of the latter also enforces the victory of the former." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Only those thoughts which come from walking have any value" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"You shall only have foes to be hated; but not foes to be despised: you must be proud of your foes. Thus have I already taught." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I have thought of you much, and have shared with you in thought much that has been elevating, stirring, and gay, so much so that it has been like living with my dear friends. If only you know how novel and strange that seems to an old hermit like me? How often it has made me laugh at myself!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What makes Heroic? — To face simultaneously one's greatest suffering and one's highest hope." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"ليس شرّكم بل الكثير من خيركم هو الذى يقرفنى فى الحقيقة" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I am the leading strings of the ego and the prompter of its concepts." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"كل إنسان يحمل في ذاته صورة المرأة التي تأتيه من أمه: و هي التي تحتم عليه احترام النساء بشكل عام، أو ازرائهن، أو اللامبالاة بهن." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"ما الانسان إلا حبل منصوب بين الحيوان والانسان المتفوق ، فهو الحبل المشدود فوق الهاوية." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"If the Christian dogmas of a revengeful God, universal sinfulness, election by divine grace and the danger of eternal damnation were true, it would be a sign of weak-mindedness and lack of character not to become a priest, apostle or hermit and, in fear and trembling, to work solely on one's own salvation; it would be senseless to lose sight of ones eternal advantage for the sake of temporal comfort. If we may assume that these things are at any rate believed true, then the everyday Christian cuts a miserable figure; he is a man who really cannot count to three, and who precisely on account of his spiritual imbecility does not deserve to be punished so harshly as Christianity promises to punish him.from Nietzsche's Human, all too Human" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Gratitude pours forth continually, as if the unexpected had just happened—the gratitude of a convalescent—for convalescence was unexpected…. The rejoicing of strength that is returning, of a reawakened faith in a tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, of a sudden sense and anticipation of a future, of impending adventures, of seas that are open again." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To the man of science, on his unassuming and laborious travels, which must often enough be journeys through the desert, there appear those glittering mirages called 'philosophical systems'; with bewitching deceptive power they show the solution of all enigmas and the freshest draught of the true water of life to be near at hand; his heart rejoices, and it seems to the weary traveller that his lips already touch the goal of all the perseverance and sorrows of the scientific life... Other natures again, may well grow exceedingly ill-humoured and curse the salty taste which these apparitions leave behind in the mouth and from which arises a raging thirst – without one having been brought so much as a step nearer to any kind of spring." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"what was silent in the father speaks in the son" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Einer hat immer Unrecht: aber mit zweien beginnt die Wahrheit. Einer kann sich nicht beweisen: aber zweie kann man bereits nicht widerlegen." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"For it is the fate of every myth to creep by degrees into the narrow limits of some alleged historical reality, and to be treated by some later generation as a unique fact with historical claims...this is the way in which religions are wont to die out: under the stern, intelligent eyes of an orthodox dogmatism, the mythical premises of a religion are systematized as a sum total of historical events; one begins apprehensively to defend the credibility of the myths, while at the same time one opposes any continuation of their vitality and growth; the feeling for myth perishes, and its place is taken by the claim of religion to historical foundations." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Still am I the richest and most to be envied - I, the lonesomest one!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Oh, these men of former times knew how to  and did not find it necessary to go to sleep first. And we men of today still master this art all too well, despite all of our good will toward the day and staying awake. It is quite enough to love, to hate, to desire, simply to feel--and right away the spirit and power of the dream overcome us, and with our eyes open, coldly contemptuous of all danger, we climb up on the most hazardous paths to scale the roofs and spires of fantasy--without any sense of dizziness, as if we had been born to climb, we somnambulists of the day! We artists! We ignore what is natural. We are moonstruck and God-struck. We wander, still as death, unwearied, on heights that we do not see as heights but as plains, as our safety." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Among the things that can drive a thinker to despair is the knowledge that the illogical is necessary for man and that much good comes from it." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"For us, the falsity of a judgment is still no objection to that judgment — that's where our new way of speaking sounds perhaps most strange. The question is the extent to which it makes demands on life, sustains life, maintains the species, perhaps even creates species. And as a matter of principle we are ready to assert that the falsest judgments (to which a priori synthetic judgments belong) are the most indispensable to us, that without our allowing logical fictions to count, without a way of measuring reality against the purely invented world of the unconditional and self-identical, without a constant falsification of the world through numbers, human beings could not live — that if we managed to give up false judgments, it would amount to a renunciation of life, a denial of life. To concede the fictional nature of the conditions of life means, of course, taking a dangerous stand against the customary feelings about value. A philosophy which dares to do that is for this reason alone already standing beyond good and evil." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Man vergibt seinem Lehrer schlecht, wenn man immer nur der Schüler bleibt. (One repays a teacher badly if one always remains nothing but a pupil.)" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Ah, give me madness, you heavenly powers! Madness, that I may at last believe in myself!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"وليتحتطم كل ما يمكن أن يتحطم تحت وطأة حقيقتنا ! فهناك دوما بيت للبناء على الأنقاض !" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Man is evil'—so said to me for consolation, all the wisest ones. Ah, if only it be still true today! For the evil is man's best force.'Man must become better and eviler'—so do I teach. The evilest is necessary for the Superman's best.It may have been well for the preacher of the petty people to suffer and be burdened by men's sin. I, however, rejoice in great sin as my great consolation.—Such things, however, are not said for long ears. Every word, also, is not suited for every mouth. These are fine far-away things: at them sheep's claws shall not grasp!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The sublime man has the highest value, even when he is most delicate and fragile, because an abundance of very difficult and rare things have been bred and united in him." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Again I remind you of Paul's priceless saying: 'And God hath chosen the weak things of the world, the foolish things of the world, the base things of the world, and things which are despised': [23] this was the formula; in hoc signo the décadence triumphed.—God on the cross—is man always to miss the frightful inner significance of this symbol?—Everything that suffers, everything that hangs on the cross, is divine.... We all hang on the cross, consequently we are divine.... We alone are divine.... Christianity was thus a victory: a nobler attitude of mind was destroyed by it—Christianity remains to this day the greatest misfortune of humanity.—" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The criminal type is the type of the strong human being under unfavorable circumstances: a strong human being made sick." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Man, the bravest of animals and the one most accustomed to suffering, does not repudiate suffering as such; he desires it, he even seeks it out, provided he is shown a meaning for it, a purpose of suffering.The meaninglessness of suffering, not suffering itself, was the curse that lay over mankind so far―and the ascetic ideal offered man meaning!It was the only meaning offered so far; any meaning is better than none at all; the ascetic ideal was in every sense the ""faute de mieux"" par excellence so far.In it, suffering was interpreted; the tremendous void seemed to have been filled; the door was closed to any kind of suicidal nihilism.This interpretation - there is no doubt of it - brought fresh suffering with it, deeper, more inward, more poisonous, more life-destructive suffering: it placed all suffering under the perspective of guilt.But all this notwithstanding - man was saved thereby, he possessed a meaning, he was henceforth no longer 1ike a leaf in the wind, a plaything of nonsense - the ""sense-less"" - he could now willsomething; no matter at first to what end, why, with what he willed: the will itself was saved.We can no longer conceal from ourselves what is expressed by all that willing which has taken its direction from the ascetic ideal: this hatred of the human, and even more of the animal, and more still of the material, this horror of the senses, of reason itself, this fear of happiness and beauty, this longing to get away from all appearance, change, becoming, death, wishing, from longing itself.All this means - let us dare to grasp it - a will to nothingness, an aversion to life, a rebellion against the most fundamental presuppositions of life; but it is and remains a will.Man would rather will nothingness than not will at all." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Eu sou vários! Há multidões em mim. Na mesa de minha alma sentam-se muitos, e eu sou todos eles. Há um velho, uma criança, um sábio, um tolo. Você nunca saberá com quem está sentado ou quanto tempo permanecerá com cada um de mim. Mas prometo que, se nos sentarmos à mesa, nesse ritual sagrado eu lhe entregarei ao menos um dos tantos que sou, e correrei os riscos de estarmos juntos no mesmo plano." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Each individual represents the whole course of Evolution and he is not, as morals teach, something that begins at his birth." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"God is a conjecture; but I desire that your conjectures should be limited by what is thinkable. Can you think a god? [...] You should think through your own senses to their consequences." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"الحق أقول لكم لقد غدونا متعبين أكثر مما ينبغى كى ما نموت" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When we observe how some people know how to manage their experiences--their insignificant, everyday experiences--so that they become an arable soil that bears fruit three times a year, while others--and how many there are!--are driven through surging waves of destiny, the most multifarious currents of the times and the nations, and yet always remain on top, bobbing like a cork, then we are in the end tempted to divide mankind into a minority (a minimality) of those who know how to make much of little, and a majority of those who know how to make little of much." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In all speaking there is a grain of contempt. Language, so it seems, was invented only for what is mediocre, common, communicable. In language, speakers vulgarize themselves right away." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One does not attack a person merely to hurt and conquer him, but perhaps merely to become conscious of one's own strength." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Ten truths must you find during the day; otherwise you will seek truth during the night, and your soul will stay hungry. Ten times must you laugh during the day, and be cheerful; otherwise your stomach, the father of affliction and gloom, will disturb you in the night." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is still a metaphysical faith that underlies our faith in science—and we men seekers after knowledge today, we godless ones and anti-metaphysicians, we, too, derive our flame from the fire ignited by a faith millennia old, the Christian faith, which was also Plato's, that God is truth, that truth is divine." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"وعندها تعلمت أن أصعب على الإنسان أن يجيد العطاء من أن يجيد الاخذ, وأن العطاء فن, وهو أرقى أشكال المكر فى براعة الخير" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One should adopt only those situations in which is in no need of sham virtues, but rather, like the tight-rope dancer on his tight rope, in which one must either fall or stand - or escape" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There are feelings which want to kill the lonely; and if they do not succeed, well, then they themselves must die. But are you capable of this—to be a murderer?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"راهی نیستگرداگردم مغاک و سکوت مرگ تو چنین می خواستی و راه اراده ات را زدود....تو گم شده ای خطر را باور کن" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"How foolish it would be to suppose that one only needs to point out this origin and this misty shroud of delusion in order to destroy the world that counts for real, so-called 'reality.' We can destroy only as creators. -- But let us not forget this either: it is enough to create new names and estimations and probabilities in order to create in the long run new 'things." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"أنا نقيض لكل ما يحمل طابعا بطوليا" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"let man fear woman when she loves. then she bears every sacrifice and every other thing she accounts valueless." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Extreme positions are not relieved by more moderate ones, but by extreme opposite positions." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Where solitude endeth, there beginneth the market-place; and where the market-place beginneth, there beginneth also the noise of the great actors, and the buzzing of the poison-flies." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There are many more languages than one imagines. And man reveals himself much more often than he wishes. So many things that speak! But there are always so few listeners, so that man, so to speak, only chatters in a void when he engages in confessions. He wastes his truths just as the sun wastes its light. Isn't it too bad that the void has no ears?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"But let me reveal my heart to you entirely, my friends: if there were gods, how could I endure not to be a god! Hence there are no gods." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I have been casting shadows all my life without caring about how deeply they stain my soul." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I am no man, I am dynamite" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What if a demon crept after thee into thy loneliest loneliness some day or night, and said to thee: ""This life, as thou livest it at present, and hast lived it, thou must live it once more, and also innumerable times; and there will be nothing new in it, but every pain and every joy and every thought and every sigh, and all the unspeakably small and great in thy life must come to thee again, and all in the same series and sequence—and similarly this spider and this moonlight among the trees, and similarly this moment, and I myself. The eternal sand-glass of existence will ever be turned once more, and thou with it, thou speck of dust!""—Wouldst thou not throw thyself down and gnash thy teeth, and curse the demon that so spake? Or hast thou once experienced a tremendous moment in which thou wouldst answer him: ""Thou art a God, and never did I hear anything so divine!"" If that thought acquired power over thee as thou art, it would transform thee, and perhaps crush thee; the question with regard to all and everything: ""Dost thou want this once more, and also for innumerable times?"" would lie as the heaviest burden upon thy activity! Or, how wouldst thou have to become favourably inclined to thyself and to life, so as to long for nothing more ardently than for this last eternal sanctioning and sealing?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Deception, flattering, lying, deluding, talking behind the back, putting up a false front, living in borrowed splendor, wearing a mask, hiding behind convention, playing a role for others and for oneself – in short, a continuous fluttering around the solitary flame of vanity – is so much the rule and the law among men that there is almost nothing which is less comprehensible than how an honest and pure drive for truth could have arisen among them." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To live is to suffer, to survive is to find something worth suffering for." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"دوستی و ازدواج: احتمالا بهترین دوست، بهترین همسر را اختیار خواهد کرد، زیرا ازدواج خوب مبتنی بر استعداد دوستی است." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Equality before the enemy -that is the main condition to fight a fair duel. Where you have contempt, you cannot wage war; where you are in command, where you can see someone beneath you, you should not wage war." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A great truth wants to be criticized not idolized" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"For your Bildung you should choose the most difficult and splendid problem, but as subject for a dissertation choose no more than a very limited and remote corner." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"24. O sancta simplicitas! In what strange simplification and falsification man lives! One can never cease wondering when once one has got eyes for beholding this marvel! How we have made everything around us clear and free and easy and simple!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"we must now and then be joyful in our folly, that we may continue to be joyful in our wisdom!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The body is a big sagacity, a plurality with one sense, a war and a peace, a flock and a shepherd." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One does not hate as long as one has a low esteem of someone, but only when one esteems him as an equal or a superior." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"He who strays from tradition becomes asacrifice to the extraordinary; he who remains in tradition is itsslave. Destruction follows in any case." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The men of the period of corruption are witty and calumnious; they know that there are yet other ways of murdering than by the dagger and ambush--they know also that all that is well said is believed in." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Since I grew weary of the searchI taught myself to find insteadSince cross winds caused my ship to lurchI sail with all winds straight ahead." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"If someone wants to seem to be something, stubbornly and for a long time, he eventually finds it hard to be anything else. The profession of almost every man, even the artist, begins with hypocrisy, as he imitates from the outside, copies what is effective." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"آن که اینجا یارای خندیدنش نیستنباید بخواندزیرا ""موجود خبیثی"" ستدرجانشکه نمی خنداندش" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What does Nihilism mean?—That the highest values are losing their value." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"They want more, they learn to make claims, the tribute of respect is at last felt to be well-nigh galling; rivalry for rights, indeed actual strife itself, would be preferred: in a word, woman is losing modesty. And let us immediately add that she is also losing taste. She is unlearning to fear man: but the woman who ""unlearns to fear"" sacrifices her most womanly instincts." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"All higher education belongs only to the exception: one must be privileged to have a right to so high a privilege. All great, all beautiful things can never be common property: pulchrum est paucorum hominum. What contributes to the decline of German culture? That 'higher education' is no longer a privilege — the democratism of Bildung, which has become 'common' — too common." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"For the male sickness of self-contempt, the surest cure is to be loved by a clever woman" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"My conception of freedom. — The value of a thing sometimes does not lie in that which one attains by it, but in what one pays for it — what it costs us. I shall give an example. Liberal institutions cease to be liberal as soon as they are attained: later on, there are no worse and no more thorough injurers of freedom than liberal institutions. Their effects are known well enough: they undermine the will to power; they level mountain and valley, and call that morality; they make men small, cowardly, and hedonistic — every time it is the herd animal that triumphs with them. Liberalism: in other words, herd-animalization.These same institutions produce quite different effects while they are still being fought for; then they really promote freedom in a powerful way. On closer inspection it is war that produces these effects, the war for liberal institutions, which, as a war, permits illiberal instincts to continue. And war educates for freedom. For what is freedom? That one has the will to assume responsibility for oneself. That one maintains the distance which separates us. That one becomes more indifferent to difficulties, hardships, privation, even to life itself. That one is prepared to sacrifice human beings for one's cause, not excluding oneself. Freedom means that the manly instincts which delight in war and victory dominate over other instincts, for example, over those of ""pleasure."" The human being who has become free — and how much more the spirit who has become free — spits on the contemptible type of well-being dreamed of by shopkeepers, Christians, cows, females, Englishmen, and other democrats. The free man is a warrior.How is freedom measured in individuals and peoples? According to the resistance which must be overcome, according to the exertion required, to remain on top. The highest type of free men should be sought where the highest resistance is constantly overcome: five steps from tyranny, close to the threshold of the danger of servitude. This is true psychologically if by ""tyrants"" are meant inexorable and fearful instincts that provoke the maximum of authority and discipline against themselves; most beautiful type: Julius Caesar. This is true politically too; one need only go through history. The peoples who had some value, attained some value, never attained it under liberal institutions: it was great danger that made something of them that merits respect. Danger alone acquaints us with our own resources, our virtues, our armor and weapons, our spirit, and forces us to be strong. First principle: one must need to be strong — otherwise one will never become strong.Those large hothouses for the strong — for the strongest kind of human being that has so far been known — the aristocratic commonwealths of the type of Rome or Venice, understood freedom exactly in the sense in which I understand it: as something one has or does not have, something one wants, something one conquers." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The Greek culture of the Sophists had developed out of all the Greek instincts; it belongs to the culture of the Periclean age as necessarily as Plato does not: it has its predecessors in Heraclitus, in Democritus, in the scientific types of the old philosophy; it finds expression in, e.g., the high culture of Thucydides. And – it has ultimately shown itself to be right: every advance in epistemological and moral knowledge has reinstated the Sophists – Our contemporary way of thinking is to a great extent Heraclitean, Democritean, and Protagorean: it suffices to say it is Protagorean, because Protagoras represented a synthesis of Heraclitus and Democritus." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"لقد أخذت مصيرى بيدى, وعالجت نفسى بنفسى" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I keep having the same experience and keep resisting it every time. I do not want to believe it although it is palpable: the great majority of people lacks an intellectual conscience. Indeed, it has often seemed to me as if anyone calling for an intellectual conscience were as lonely in the most densely populated cities as if he were in a desert. Everybody looks at you with strange eyes and goes right on handling his scales, calling this good and that evil. Nobody even blushes when you intimate that their weights are underweight; nor do people feel outraged; they merely laugh at your doubts. I mean: the great majority of people does not consider it contemptible to believe this or that and to live accordingly, without first having given themselves an account of the final and most certain reasons pro and con, and without even troubling themselves about such reasons afterward: the most gifted men and the noblest women still belong to this ""great majority."" But what is goodheartedness, refinement, or genius to me, when the person who has these virtues tolerates slack feelings in his faith and judgments and when he does not account the desire for certainty as his inmost craving and deepest distress—as that which separates the higher human beings from the lower.Among some pious people I found a hatred of reason and was well disposed to them for that; for this at least betrayed their bad intellectual conscience. But to stand in the midst of this rerum concordia discors and of this whole marvelous uncertainty and rich ambiguity of existence without questioning, without trembling with the craving and the rapture of such questioning, without at least hating the person who questions, perhaps even finding him faintly amusing—that is what I feel to be contemptible, and this is the feeling for which I look first in everybody. Some folly keeps persuading me that every human being has this feeling, simply because he is human. This is my type of injustice." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Trong tất cả những thứ được viết ra, ta chỉ yêu những gì được tác giả viết bằng máu của mình. Ngươi viết bằng máu đi, rồi ngươi sẽ biết được rằng máu chính là tinh thần.Hiểu một dòng máu xa lạ không phải là điều dễ: ta thù ghét tất cả những kẻ vô công rồi nghề ngồi đọc sách.Kẻ nào đã biết rõ độc giả thì sẽ chẳng làm gì cho người độc giả nữa. Hãy còn cả một thế kỉ độc giả nữa,- và chính tinh thần cũng sẽ bốc mùi hôi thối.Dành cho mọi người quyền học đọc, rốt cuộc lại làm hại đến những văn tự, nhưng cả tư tưởng nữa.Xưa kia tinh thần là thượng đế, rồi tinh thần trở thành người, rồi bây giờ nó hóa thành đám tiện dân.Kẻ nào dùng máu mình để viết những châm ngôn đều không muốn được đọc đến, nhưng muốn được học thuộc lòng.Trên miền núi cao, con đường ngắn nhất là con đường dẫn từ đỉnh này sang đỉnh kia; nhưng muốn theo con đường ấy, ngươi phải có đôi chân vạn dặm. Những châm ngôn phải là những đỉnh cao, vì những kẻ mà ta ngỏ lời phải là những con người cao đại tráng kiện." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Egoism is the law of perspective applied to feelings: what is closest appears large and weighty, and as one moves farther away size and weight decrease." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The work of a suffering and tortured God, the world then seemed to me. The dream and fiction of a god, the world then seemed to me.; coloured smoke before the eyes of a discontented god. [...] The creator wished to look away from himself; so he created the world. [...] a drunken joy to its imperfect creator." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"إنني تلميذ للفيلسوف ديونيوزس اليوناني وسوف أكون في التو(ساطيرا) أو إلهاً للغابات، وإنني أفضل هذا على أن أكون قديساً" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"More honestly and purely speaks the healthy body, perfect and square-built; and it speaks of the meaning of the earth.-" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"On Truth and LieWhat is truth? A mobile army of metaphors, metonyms, and anthropomorphisms – in short, a sum of human relations, which have been enhanced, transposed, and embellished poetically and rhetorically, and which after long use seem firm, canonical, and obligatory to a people: truths are illusions about which one has forgotten that this is what they are; metaphors which are worn out and without sensuous power; coins which have lost their pictures and now matter only as metal, no longer as coins." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In many people, incidentally, the gift of having good friends is much greater than the gift of being a good friend." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We are friends of the lento, I and my book. I have not been a philologist in vain—perhaps I am one yet: a teacher of slow reading. I even come to write slowly. At present, it is not only my habit but even my taste—a perverted taste, maybe—to write nothing but what will drive to despair every one who is 'in a hurry.' For philology is that venerable art which exacts from its followers one thing above all—to step to one side, to leave themselves spare moments, to grow silent, to become slow—the leisurely art of the goldsmith applied to language: an art which must carry out slow, fine work, and attains nothing if not lento. For this very reason philology is now more desirable than ever before; for this very reason it is the highest attraction and incitement in an age of 'work': that is to say, of haste, of unseemly and immoderate hurry-scurry, which is intent upon 'getting things done' at once, even every book, whether old or new. Philology itself, perhaps, will not 'get things done' so hurriedly: it teaches how to read well: i.e. slowly, profoundly, attentively, prudently, with inner thoughts, with the mental doors ajar, with delicate fingers and eyes ... my patient friends, this book appeals only to perfect readers and philologists: learn to read me well!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I live in my own place. I never copied anybody, not even half. And at any master who lacks the grace to laugh at himself, I laugh." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Fear is the mother of morality." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I ascended, I ascended, I dreamt, I thought,—but everything oppressed me. A sick one did I resemble, whom bad torture wearieth, and a worse dream reawakeneth out of his first sleep.—But there is something in me which I call courage: it hath hitherto slain for me every dejection. This courage at last bade me stand still and say: ""Dwarf! Thou! Or I!""—For courage is the best slayer,—courage which attacketh: for in every attack there is sound of triumph.Man, however, is the most courageous animal: thereby hath he overcome every animal. With sound of triumph hath he overcome every pain; human pain, however, is the sorest pain.Courage slayeth also giddiness at abysses: and where doth man not stand at abysses! Is not seeing itself—seeing abysses?Courage is the best slayer: courage slayeth also fellow-suffering. Fellow-suffering, however, is the deepest abyss: as deeply as man looketh into life, so deeply also doth he look into suffering.Courage, however, is the best slayer, courage which attacketh: it slayeth even death itself; for it saith: ""Was that life? Well! Once more!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In the writings of a recluse one always hears something of the echo of the wilderness, something of the murmuring tones and timid vigilance of solitude; in his strongest words, even in his cry itself, there sounds a new and more dangerous kind of silence, of concealment. He who has sat day and night, from year's end to year's end, alone with his soul in familiar discord and discourse, he who has become a cave-bear, or a treasure-seeker, or a treasure-guardian and dragon in his cave—it may be a labyrinth, but can also be a gold-mine—his ideas themselves eventually acquire a twilight-colour of their own, and an odour, as much of the depth as of the mould, something uncommunicative and repulsive, which blows chilly upon every passer-by." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I wish men would begin by respecting themselves: everything else follows from that. To be sure, as soon as one does this one is finished for others: for this is what they forgive last: 'What? A man who respects himself?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Knowledge kills action; action requires the veils of illusion: that is the doctrine of Hamlet, not that cheap wisdom of Jack the Dreamer who reflects too much and, as it were, from an excess of possibilities does not get around to action. Not reflection, no—true knowledge, an insight into the horrible truth, outweighs any motive for action, both in Hamlet and in the Dionysian man." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I am not a man, I am dynamite" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When the centre of gravity of life is placed, not in life itself, but in 'the beyond'—in nothingness—then one has taken away its centre of gravity altogether." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In order that there may be institutions, there must be a kind of will, instinct, or imperative, which is anti-liberal to the point of malice: the will to tradition, to authority, to responsibility for centuries to come, to the solidarity of chains of generations, forward and backward ad infinitum." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"You revere me: but what if your reverence should some day collapse? Be careful lest a statue fall and kill you!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Suppose that pleasure and pain are so intertwined that whoever wants as much as possible of the one must also have as much as possible of the other – that whoever wants to know ‘rejoicing to heaven' must be prepared for 'grieving onto death' as well? And such might be the case! At least so the Stoics believed, who were consistent when they sought as little pleasure as possible, that life might afford them as little pain as possible." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Art as the single superior counter-force against all will to negation of life, art as the anti-Christian, anti-Buddhist, anti-Nihilist par excellence." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Every means hitherto employed with the intention of making mankind moral has been thoroughly immoral." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Ich will keinen Autor mehr lesen, dem man anmerkt, er wollte ein Buch machen; sondern nur jene, deren Gedanken unversehens ein Buch werden." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"فلتحذر أن لا يأسرك فى آخر المطاف معتقد ضيّق: جنون قاسى متشدد !" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To impose the character of being upon becoming is the supreme test of power." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I mistrust all Systematisers and I avoid them — the will to a System is a lack of integrity." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One does not hate as long as one disesteems, but only when one esteems equal or superior" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"أن تكونوا قد عرفتم اليأس, ففى ذلك الكثير مما يستحق الإكبار" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Facta! Yes, Facta ficta! - A historian has to do, not with what actually happened, but only with events supposed to have happened: for only the latter have produced an effect. Likewise only with supposed heroes. His theme, so-called world history, is opinions about supposed actions and their supposed motives, which in turn give rise to further opinions and actions, the reality of which is however at once vaporised again and produces an effect only as vapour - a continual generation and pregnancy of phantoms over the impentetrable mist of unfathomable reality. All historians speak of things which have never existed except in imagination." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Men after death are understood worse than men of the moment, but heard better." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The Olympian vice.--In defiance of that philosopher who as true Englishman tried to give any thinking person's laughter a bad reputation ('Laughter is a nasty infirmity of human nature that any thinking person will endeavour to overcome'---Hobbes), I would actually go as far as to rank philosophers according to the level of their laughter---right up to the ones who are capable of golden laughter. And assuming that gods, too, are able to philosophize, as various of my conclusions force me to believe, then I do not doubt when they do so, they know how to laugh in a new and superhuman fashion---and at the expense of everything serious! Gods like to jeer: it seems that even at religious observances they cannot keep from laughing." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The knight of knowledge must be able not only to love his enemies, but also to hate his friends." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Even now it is ceasing to be art of the nobleman, and it is quite possible that some day one may find it so common and even vulgar that, along with all party literature and journalism, one would classify it as ""prostitution of the spirit." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"And perhaps the great day will come when a people, distinguished by wars and victories and by the highest development of a military order and intelligence, and accustomed to make the heaviest sacrifices for these things, will exclaim of its own free will, ""We break the sword,"" and will smash its entire military establishment down to its lowest foundations. Rendering oneself unarmed when one has been the best-armed, out of a height of feeling—that is the means to real peace, which must always rest on a peace of mind; whereas the so-called armed peace, as it now exists in all countries, is the absence of peace of mind. One trusts neither oneself nor one's neighbor and, half from hatred, half from fear, does not lay down arms. Rather perish than hate and fear, and twice rather perish than make oneself hated and feared—this must some day become the highest maxim for every single commonwealth, too." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Out of damp and gloomy days, out of solitude, out of loveless words directed at us, conclusions grow up in us like fungus one morning they are there, we know not how, and they gaze upon us, morose and gray. Woe to the thinker who is not the gardener but only the soil of the plants that grow in him." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Yo necesito compañeros, pero compañeros vivos; no muertos y cadáveres que tenga que llevar a cuestas por donde vaya." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"الحق أقول لكم ، إن خيراً و شراً خالدين في الثبات - أمر لا وجود له ! كل شئ محكوم بضرورة تجاوز نفسه على الدوام ." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"أوليس كل بكاء شكوى وكل شكوى شكاية؟ هكذا تتحدثين إلى نفسك, ولذلك تفضلين الإبتسام على أن تنثرى أوجاعك يا نفسى" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Re-create yourselves: and let this be your best creation." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The man who fights too long against dragons becomes a dragon himself." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is so little true that martyrs offer any support to the truth of a cause thatI am inclined to deny that any martyr has ever had anything to do with thetruth at all." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When I am all alone, I often, very often, say your name aloud…" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"انسان بندی‌ست بسته میانِ حیوان و ابَر انسان" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"All history is the experimental refutation of the theory of the so-called moral order of things." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"God has given us music so that above all it can lead us upwards. Music unites all qualities: it can exalt us, divert us, cheer us up, or break the hardest of hearts with the softest of its melancholy tones. But its principal task is to lead our thoughts to higher things, to elevate, even to make us tremble...The musical art speaks in sounds more penetrating than the words of poetry, and takes hold of the most hidden crevices of the heart...Song elevates our being and leads us to the good and the true. If, however, music serves only as a diversion or as a kind of vain ostentation it is sinful and harmful." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"You force all things to flow towards you and into you, so that they shall flow back again out of your fountain as the gifts of your love." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"the existence of the world is justified only as an aesthetic phenomenon." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In fact, however, Nietzsche's very first book, The Birth, constitutes a declaration of independence from Schopenhauer: while Nietzsche admires him for honestly facing up to the terrors of existence, Nietzsche himself celebrates Greek tragedy as a superior alternative to Schopenhauer's 'Buddhistic negation of the will.' From tragedy Nietzsche learns that one can affirm life as sublime, beautiful, and joyous in spite of all suffering and cruelty." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"جعلت من رغبتى فى أن أكون معافا ومن رغبتى فى الحياة فلسفتى الخاصة" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"And even to me, one who likes life, it seems butterflies and soap bubbles and whatever is of their kind among human beings know most about happiness.To see these light, foolish, delicate, sensitive little souls fluttering--that seduces Zarathustra to tears and songs.I would only believe in a god who knew how to dance.And when I saw my devil, there I found him earnest, thorough, deep, somber; it was the spirit of gravity -- through him all things fall.Not by wrath does one kill, but by laughing. Up, let us kill the spirit of gravity!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I learned to walk; since then I have let myself run. I learned to fly; since then I do not need pushing in order to move from a spot." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Don't ask, How will I climb the mountain, just climb the mountain." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is the business of the very few to be independent; it is a privilege of the strong. And whoever attempts it, even with the best right, but without being OBLIGED to do so, proves that he is probably not only strong, but also daring beyond measure." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One person is always too many around me." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Whatever may be your desire to accomplish great deeds, the deep silence of pregnancy never comes to you! The event of the day sweeps you along like straws before the wind whilst ye lie under the illusion that ye are chasing the event,—poor fellows! If a man wishes to act the hero on the stage he must not think of forming part of the chorus; he should not even know how the chorus is made up." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"وما الإنسان فى نظرى إلا كائن ناقص، فإذا ما أحببته قتلنى حبه." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There is one thing one has to have: either a soul that is cheerful by nature, or a soul made cheerful by work, love, art, and knowledge." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"You have been a poor observer of life if you have not also seen the handthat, ever so gently – kills." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Solitude has seven skins; nothing gets through any more." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"من بين كل كتاباتى فإن كتاب (هكذا تكلم زارادشت) يحتل مكانة خاصة؛ فإننى به قد أعطيت رفاقى أعظم هدية قد جرى إسباغها عليهم. وهذا الكتاب الذى صوته يدوى عبر العصور ليس هو أرق كتاب فى العالم وحسب، بل هو الكتاب الحق لهواء الجبال. إنه الكتاب الأعمق المتولد من الامتلاء الأقصى بالحقيقة، إنه بئر لا ينضب ماؤه، والذى ما من غطّاس يغطس فيه إلا ويرتفع ثانية، وهو محلى بالذهب والخير." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"لا يهم اذا لم تكن لديك أية سعادة متبقية لتعطيها لي فلا يزال لديك أسفك" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We are so fond of being out in Nature because it has no opinions of us." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"You have made danger your vocation; there is nothing contemptible in that. Now you perish of your vocation: for that I will bury you with my own hands" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"مناوبة الديننعتقد آننا نمجد فلسفة ما حي نجعلها تحل محل الدين عند الشعب.إن الحاجة إلى الأفكار الانتقالية تظهر فعلاً عند الإقتضاء وفي الإقتصاد الروحي ، الانتقال من الدين الي الرؤية العلمية للأشياء قفزة قوية وخطيرة ، وهو شيء غير منصوح به. ورغم ذلك يبقى هذا التقريظ ذا اساس متين .لكن ينبغي أن ينتهي ،بعد كل حساب إلي ادارك ان الجاجيات التي لباها الدين والتي يطلب من الفلسفة الان أن تلبيها ليست ثابته ،اذا يمكننا اننضعفها وان نقوضها.لنتفكر مثلا في الكرب المسيحسة ،في التحسرات على فساد الروح في القلق بشأن الخلاص كلها تمثلات مصدرها أخطاء العقل،وأنها لاتستحق التلبية بل آن تصير أثراً بعد عين. قد تكون ا فلسفة ما نافعة إنا بتلبيتها هي بدورها لهذه الحاجيات ،واما بحذفها لها ،لإنها حاجيات مكتسبة محصورة في الزمن وتقوم على فرضيات تناقص فرضيات العلم.يمكننا هنا كي نقوم بالإنتقال ان نلجأالي الفن بهدف التخفيف عن الروح المشحونه بالأحاسيس لاإنه يتعهد هذه التمثلات بشكل أقل كثيراً مماتفعله فلسفة ميتافزيقية.سيكون من السهل بعد ذلك المرور من الفن إلي علم فلسفي محرربالفعل ." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Where there have been powerful governments, societies, religions, public opinions, in short wherever there has been tyranny, there the solitary philosopher has been hated; for philosophy offers an asylum to a man into which no tyranny can force it way, the inward cave, the labyrinth of the heart." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A dangerous crossing, a dangerous wayfaring, a dangerous looking-back, a dangerous trembling and halting." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The ancestors of the mightiest tribes must have grown to prodigious proportions . . . in the end the ancestor is necessarily transfigured into a god." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"كل الحقائق المكتومة تتحول إلى سموم" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"الفاعل وحده هو الذى يتعلم" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"إن ""الطيز الخامل"" كما قلت ذلك ذات مرة, لهو الخطيئة الحقيقية ضد الروح القدس." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Who suffers more? After a personal disagreement and quarrel between a woman and a man, the one party suffers most at the thought of having hurt the other; while that other party suffers most at the thought of not having hurt the first enough; for which reason it tries by tears, sobs, and contorted features, to weigh down the other person's heart, even afterwards" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"But strangers and the poor may pluck for themselves the fruit from my tree: that causes less shame. But beggars should be entirely done away with! Truly, it annoys one to give to them and it annoys one not to give to them." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Deutschland über alles - I fear that was the end of German Philosophy." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Whoever reaches his ideal transcends it eo ipso." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"...wherever the strength of a faith steps decisively into the foreground, we infer a certain weakness in its ability to demonstrate its truth, even the improbability of what it believes. We, too, do not deny that the belief 'makes blessed,' but for that very reason we deny that the belief proves something—a strong belief which confers blessedness creates doubts about what it has faith in. It does not ground 'truth.' It grounds a certain probability— delusion." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One always has exaggerated ideas about what one doesn't know." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"For a tree to become tall it must grow tough roots among the rocks." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We are always only in our own company." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is an eternal phenomenon: the insatiable will always finds a way to detain its creatures in life and compel them to live on, by means of an illusion spread over things." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I caught this insight on the way and quickly seized the rather poor words that were closest to hand to pin it down lest it fly away again. And now it has died of these arid words and shakes and flaps in them-- and I hardly know anymore when I look at it how I could ever have felt so happy when I caught this bird." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I see you exhausted by poisonous flies; I see you bleeding and torn at a hundred spots; and your pride refuses even to be angry. They would have blood from you in all innocence; blood is what bloodless souls crave - and therefore they sting in all innocence." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Books for general reading always smell badly. The odor of common people hangs about them." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"And what magnificent instruments of observation we possess in our senses! This nose, for example, of which no philosopher has yet spoken with reverence and gratitude, is actually the most delicate instrument so far at our disposal: it is able to detect tiny chemical concentrations that even elude a spectroscope." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"He who considers more deeply knows that, whatever his acts and judgements may be, he is always wrong." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The night is also a sun." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The God that Nietzsche imagined, in the end, was not far from the God that such an artist as Joseph Conrad imagines—a supreme craftsman, ever experimenting, ever coming closer to an ideal balancing of lines and forces, and yet always failing to work out the final harmony." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"if you wish to strive for peace of soul and pleasure, then believe; if you wish to be a devotee of truth, then inquire. ." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I fear that the animals regard man as a creature of their own kind which has in a highly dangerous fashion lost its healthy animal reason – as the mad animal, as the laughing animal, as the weeping animal, as the unhappy animal." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I should like to direct the attention of artists. A constant producer, a man who is a ""mother"" in the grand sense of the term, one who no longer knows or hears of anything except pregnancies and childbeds of his spirit, who has no time at all to reflect and make comparisons with regard to himself and his work, who is also no longer inclined to exercise his taste, but simply forgets it, letting it take its chance of standing, lying or falling -- perhaps such a man at last produces works on which he is then quite unfit to pass a judgment: so that he speaks and thinks foolishly about them and about himself. This seems to me almost the normal condition with fruitful artists." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Just as little as a reader today reads all of the individual words (let alone syllables) on a page—rather he picks about five words at random out of twenty and ""guesses"" at the meaning that probably belongs to these five words—just as little do we see a tree exactly and completely with reference to leaves, twigs, color, and form; it is so very much easier for us to simply improvise some approximation of a tree. Even in the midst of the strangest experiences we will still do the same: we make up the major part of the experience and can scarcely be forced not to contemplate some event as its ""inventors."" All this means: basically and from time immemorial we are—accustomed to lying. Or to put it more virtuously and hypocritically, in short, more pleasantly: one is much more of an artist than one knows." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"جنباً إلى جنب مع علمي تمتد ظلمة جهلي" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Go your ways! and let the people and peoples go theirs!- gloomy ways, verily, on which not a single hope glints any more!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"While every aristocratic morality springs from a triumphant affirmation of its own demands, the slave morality says ""no"" from the very outset to what is ""outside itself,"" ""different from itself,"" and ""not itself: and this ""no"" is its creative deed." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"This is what is hardest: to close the open hand because one loves." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In order to think and infer it is necessary to assume beings: logic handles only formulas for what remains the same. That is why this assumption would not be a proof of reality: 'beings' are part of our perspective. ... The fictitious world of subject, substance, 'reason,' etc., is needed-: there is in us a power to order, simplify, falsify, artificially distinguish. ... What then is truth? A moveable host of metaphors, metonomies, and anthropomorphisms: in short, a sum of human relations which have been poetically and rhetorically intensified, transferred, and embellished, and which, after long usage, seem to a people to be fixed, canonical, and binding. Truths are illusions which we have forgotten are illusions; they are metaphors that have become worn out and have been drained of sensuous force," -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There are heights of the soul from which even tragedy ceases to look tragic; and rolling together all the woe of the world -- who could dare to decide whether its sight would necessarily seduce us and compel us to feel pity and thus double this woe?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"دعوا الهواء النقي يدخل ! حاذروا , على الاخص, مقاربة المخبولين و مستشفيات الحضارة ! و لتكن لكم صحبة جيدة, كصحبتنا ! و الا فاخلقوا العزلة و الوحدة لانفسكم اذا لم يكن منها بد !تجنبوا تلك المظاهر المؤذية التي يتجلي عبرها الفساد الداخلي و الاصابة السرية بالمرض. هكذا يا صحبتي نستطيع ان ندافع عن انفسنا, لفترة على الاقل, ضد هذين المَرضين الرهيبين اللذين يتهددانا بشكل خاص :ضد القرف العميق من الانسان و ضد العطف العميق على الانسان" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I transform myself to fast: my today refutes my yesterday." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"بل الواضحون والشجعان والشفافون, أولئك هم فى نظرى أكثر الكتومين فطنة, إذ عميقة هى بئر هؤلاء, حتى أن أكثر المياه صفاء لا تستطيع أن تفضح خبايا قاعها" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Ich sage euch: man muß noch Chaos in sich haben, um einen tanzenden Stern gebären zu können." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The will to power can manifest itself only against obstacles ; it therefore goes in search of what resists it--this is the primitive tendency of the protoplasm when it extends its pseudopodia and feels about it. The act of appropriation and assimilation is, above all, the result of a desire to overpower, a process of forming, of additional building and rebuilding, until at last the subjected creature has become completely a part of the superior creature's sphere of power, and has increased the latter." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The most intelligent men, like the strongest, find their happiness where others would find only disaster: in the labyrinth, in being hard with themselves and with others, in effort; their delight is in self-mastery; in them asceticism becomes second nature, a necessity, an instinct. They regard a difficult task as a privilege; it is to them a recreation to play with burdens that would crush all others.... Knowledge—a form of asceticism.—They are the most honourable kind of men: but that does not prevent them being the most cheerful and most amiable. They rule, not because they want to, but because they are; they are not at liberty to play second.—" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To become what one is, one must not have the faintest notion what one is. From this point of view even the blunders of life have their own meaning and value—the occasional side roads and wrong roads, the delays, 'modesties,' seriousness wasted on tasks that are remote from the task. All this can express a great prudence, even the supreme prudence: where ""nosce te ipsum"" would be the recipe for ruin, forgetting oneself, misunderstanding oneself, making oneself smaller, narrower, mediocre, become reason itself. Morally speaking: neighbor love, living for others, and other things can be a protective measure for preserving the hardest self-concern. This is the exception where, against my wont and conviction, I side with the 'selfless' drives: here they work in the service of self-love, of self-discipline." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"إن الإنسان شئ لابد من تجاوزه" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What then in the last resort are the truths of mankind?--They are the irrefutable errors of mankind." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The great problems are to be encountered in the street." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Atheism and a kind of _second innocence_ belong together." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"ذو قلب هو الذى يعرف الخوف, لكنه يدجن الخوف أيضا, والذى يرى الهاوية ولكن بأنفة وكبرياء" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Have you understood me? Dionysus versus Christ." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The 'Kingdom of Heaven' is a condition of the heart — not something that comes 'upon the earth' or 'after death'." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Man, the bravest of animals, and the one most accustomed to suffering, does not repudiate suffering as such; he desires it, he even seeks it out, provided he is shown a meaning for it, a purpose of suffering. The meaninglessness of suffering, not suffering itself, was the curse that lay over mankind so far — and the ascetic ideal offered man meaning!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The lie of the ideal has till now been the curse on reality; on its account humanity itself has become fake and false right down to its deepest instincts - to the point of worshipping values opposite to the only ones which would guarantee it a flourishing, a future, the exaled right to a future." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A man who loves like a woman becomes thereby a slave; a woman, however, who loves like a woman becomes thereby a more perfect woman." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Nothing succeeds if prankishness has no part in it." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"O Voltaire! O humanity! O idiocy! There is something ticklish in ""the truth,"" and in the SEARCH for the truth; and if man goes about it too humanely—""il ne cherche le vrai que pour faire le bien""—I wager he finds nothing!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"خود نوین را باید بر خاکستر زندگی کهنه بنا کرد" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A Path to Equality. — A few hours' mountain climbing make of a rogue and a saint two fairly equal creatures. Tiredness is the shortest path to equality and fraternity — and sleep finally adds to them liberty." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It happens more frequently, as has beenhinted, that a scientific head is placed on an ape's body, a fine exceptional understanding in a base soul, an occurrence by no means rare, especially among doctors and moral physiologists. And whenever anyone speaks without bitterness, or rather quite innocently, of man as a belly with two requirements, and a head with one; whenever any one sees, seeks, and WANTS to see only hunger, sexual instinct, and vanity as the real and only motives of human actions; in short, when any one speaks ‘badly'—and not even ‘ill'—of man, then ought the lover of knowledge to hearken attentively and diligently; he ought, in general, to have an open ear wherever there is talk without indignation. For the indignant man, and he who perpetually tears and lacerates himself with his own teeth (or, in place of himself, the world, God, or society), may indeed, morally speaking, stand higher than the laughing and self- satisfied satyr, but in every other sense he is the more ordinary, more indifferent, and less instructive case. And no one is such a LIAR as the indignant man." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"من أصقاع المستقبل تأتى رياح تخفق بأجنحة سرية, والأذن المرهفة هى التى تتلقى رسالة البشرى" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"[Anything which] is a living thing and not a dying body... will have to be an incarnate will to power, it will strive to grow, spread, seize, become predominant - not from any morality or immorality but because it is living and because life simply is will to power... 'Exploitation'... belongs to the essence of what lives, as a basic organic function; it is a consequence of the will to power, which is after all the will of life." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When some men fail to accomplish what they desire to do they exclaim angrily, 'May the whole world perish!' This repulsive emotion is the pinnacle of envy, whose implication is 'If I cannot have something, no one can have anything, no one is to be anything!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The child is innocence and forgetting, a new beginning, a game, a self-rolling wheel, a first movement, a sacred Yes." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"He tolerates no other enemy than one in whom nothing is to be despised and a great deal is worthy of respect!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"An artist chooses his subjects.. that is the way he praises." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Knowest thou not who is most needed by all? He who commandeth great things. To execute great things is difficult: but the more difficult task is to command great things." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I was in darkness, but I took three steps and found myself in paradise. The first step was a good thought, the second, a good word; and the third, a good deed." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"على المرء أن يتخلص من الذوق الرديء الذي يريد الاتفاق مع الأكثرية. إن (الخير) لا يعود خيراً إذا تفوّه به الجار. فكيف يمكن أن يكون ثمة (خير عام) ! إن اللفظ يناقض ذاته: مايمكن أن يكون عاماً، له ابداً قيمة ضئيلة وحسب. وفي النهاية، يجب أن تكون الأمور على ما هي عليه وعلى ما كانت عليه دائماً: تبقى الأشياء العظيمة للعظماء، والأغوار للسابرين، والارتعاشات الرقيقة للمرهفين، وجملةً واختصاراً: يبقى كل نادر للنادرين." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The strongest and most evil spirits have so far done the most to advance humanity: again and again they relumed the passions that were going to sleep—all ordered society puts the passions to sleep—and they reawakened again and again the sense of comparison, of contradiction, of the pleasure in what is new, daring, untried; they compelled men to pit opinion against opinion, model against model." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Is pessimism  a sign of decline, decay, malformation, of tired and debilitated instincts—as was the case among the Indians and appears to be the case amongst us 'modern men' and Europeans? Is there a pessimism of ? An intellectual preference for the hard, gruesome, malevolent and problematic aspects of existence which comes from a feeling of well-being, from overflowing health, from an  of existence? Is there perhaps such a thing as suffering from superabundance itself? Is there a tempting bravery in the sharpest eye which  the terrifying as its foe, as a worthy foe against which it can test its strength and from which it intends to learn the meaning of fear?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"All too violently my heart still flows toward you—my heart, upon which my summer burns, short, hot, melancholy, overblissful; how my summer heart craves your coolness." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A light has dawned for me: I need companions, living ones, not dead companions and corpses which I carry with me wherever I wish. But I need living companions who follow me because they want to follow themselves— and who want to go where I want to go." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Η πιο πρόστυχη λέξη και το πιο χυδαίο γράμμα είναι καλύτερα και ευγενέστερα από τη σιωπή." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Neither can such a doctrine argue: it simply does not understand that other doctrines exist, can exist, it simply does not know how to imagine an opinion contrary to its own" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Es geht die alte Sage, dass König Midas lange Zeit nach dem weisen Silen, dem Begleiter des Dionysus, im Walde gejagt habe, ohne ihn zu fangen. Als er ihm endlich in die Hände gefallen ist, fragt der König, was für den Menschen das Allerbeste und Allervorzüglichste sei. Starr und unbeweglich schweigt der Dämon; bis er, durch den König gezwungen, endlich unter gellem Lachen in diese Worte ausbricht: `Elendes Eintagsgeschlecht, des Zufalls Kinder und der Mühsal, was zwingst du mich dir zu sagen, was nicht zu hören für dich das Erspriesslichste ist? Das Allerbeste ist für dich gänzlich unerreichbar: nicht geboren zu sein, nicht zu sein, nichts zu sein. Das Zweitbeste aber ist für dich - bald zu sterben.According to the old story, King Midas had long hunted wise Silenus, Dionysus' companion, without catching him. When Silenus had finally fallen into his clutches, the king asked him what was the best and most desirable thing of all for mankind. The daemon stood still, stiff and motionless, until at last, forced by the king, he gave a shrill laugh and spoke these words: 'Miserable, ephemeral race, children of hazard and hardship, why do you force me to say what it would be much more fruitful for you not to hear? The best of all things is something entirely outside your grasp: not to be born, not to be, to be nothing. But the second-best thing for you — is to die soon." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"الكل باطل وكل شئ مباح" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"If one shifts the center of gravity of life out of life into the 'Beyond' – into nothingness – one has deprived life as such of its center of gravity. The great lie of personal immortality destroys all rationality, all naturalness of instinct, all that is salutary, all that is life-furthering." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"L'ateismo, per me, non è un risultato, e tanto meno un avvenimento - come tale non lo conosco: io lo intendo per istinto. Sono troppo curioso, troppo problematico, troppo tracotante, perché possa piacermi una risposta grossolana. Dio è una risposta grossolana, un'indelicatezza verso noi pensatori - in fondo è solo un grossolano divieto che ci viene fatto: non dovete pensare!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Prejudice of the learned. – The learned judge correctly that people of all ages have believed they know what is good and evil, praise- and blameworthy. But it is a prejudice of the learned that we now know better than any other age." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Of what use is a book that never transports us beyond all books" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"...Originally everything about a Greek or Christian building meant something, and in reference to a higher order of things. This atmosphere of inexhaustible meaningfulness hung about the building like a magic veil. Beauty entered the system only secondarily, impairing the basic feeling of uncanny sublimity, of sanctification by magic or the gods' nearness. At the most, beauty tempered the  - but this dread was the prerequisite everywhere. What does the beauty of a building mean to us now? The same as the beautiful face of a mindless woman: something masklike." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Error has turned animals into men; might truth be capable of turning man into an animal again?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Cinismul este singura formă prin care sufletele obişnuite acced la ceea ce se numeşte onestitate; iar omul superior, aflându-se în prezenta cinismului, fie el mai grosolan sau mai rafinat, trebuie să-şi ciulească urechile şi să se felicite de fiece dată când chiar în faţa lui prinde glas bufonul cel neruşinat sau satirul ştiinţific." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"المرء معافى في جوهره .." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"فلسفتي بأن ألزم الصمت و أعدل عن الأسئلة، لا سيما و أننا، في بعض الحالات، لا نظل فلاسفة، مثلما يوحي بذلك المثل، إلا مادمنا صامتين." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Alas! what are you, after all, my written and painted thoughts! Not long ago you were so variegated, young and malicious, so full of thorns and secret spices, that you made me sneeze and laugh — and now? You have already doffed your novelty, and some of you, I fear, are ready to become truths, so immortal do they look, so pathetically honest, so tedious! And was it ever otherwise? What then do we write and paint, we mandarins with Chinese brush, we immortalizers of things which lend themselves to writing, what are we alone capable of painting? Alas, only that which is just about to fade and begins to lose its odour! Alas, only exhausted and departing storms and belated yellow sentiments! Alas, only birds strayed and fatigued by flight, which now let themselves be captured with the hand — with our hand! We immortalize what cannot live and fly much longer, things only which are exhausted and mellow! And it is only for your afternoon, you, my written and painted thoughts, for which alone I have colours, many colours, perhaps, many variegated softenings, and fifty yellows and browns and greens and reds; — but nobody will divine thereby how ye looked in your morning, you sudden sparks and marvels of my solitude, you, my old, beloved — evil thoughts!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In the end one loves one's desire and not what is desired." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Our most sacred convictions, those which are permanent in us concerning the highest values, are judgments emanating from our muscles." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Rule? Press my type on others? Dreadful. Is not my happiness precisely the sight of many who are ?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Nihilism, then, is the recognition of the long waste of strength, the agony of the ""in vain,"" insecurity, the lack of any opportunity to recover and to regain composure-—being ashamed in front of oneself, as if one had deceived oneself all too long.—" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We are conducting an experiment with truth! Perhaps mankind will perish because of it! Fine!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Though the favourites of the gods die young, they also live eternally in the company of gods."" - Friedrich Nietzsche" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"حذار من المرهفين فى الأخلاق: حذار من أولئك الذين يحرصون حرصا شديدا على أن نقر بلطف أدبهم ورهافة حكمهم الأخلاقى! فهم لا يغفرون لنا البتة إذا ما أخطأوا أمامنا وتعدوا حدودهم (أو اعتدوا علينا بالأحرى)، ويصيرون حتما ممن يقدح ويطعن بنا فطريا حتى لو ظلوا ""أصدقائنا"".. مغبوط ذاك الذى ينسى: لأنه ""يجهز"" على حماقاته أيضا." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What is heavy? so asks the spirit that would bear much, and then kneels down like the camel, and wants to be well laden." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Zarathustra calls the good 'the last men' and then ‘the beginning of the end'; and above all he considers them as the most harmful kind of men because they secure their existence at the cost of Truth and at the cost of the Future.  'The good—they cannot create; they are always the beginning of the end.  They crucify him who writes new values on new law tables; they sacrifice the future to themselves; they crucify the whole future of humanity!  The good—they are always the beginning of the end.  And whatever harm the slanderers of the world may do, the harm of the good is the most harmful of all'. " -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Liberal institutions cease to be liberal as soon as they are attained: later on, there are no worse and no more thorough injurers of freedom than liberal institutions. One knows, indeed, what their ways bring: they undermine the will to power; they level mountain and valley, and call that morality; they make men small, cowardly, and hedonistic — every time it is the herd animal that triumphs with them. Liberalism: in other words, herd-animalization." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Greek philosophy seems to begin with an absurd notion, with the proposition that water is the primal origin and the womb of all things. Is it really necessary for us to take serious notice of this proposition? It is, and for three reasons. First, because it tells us something about the primal origin of all things; second, because it does so in language devoid of image or fable, and finally, because contained in it, if only embryonically, is the thought, ""all things are one""." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There is a point in the history of society when it becomes so pathologically soft and tender that among other things it sides with those who harm it, criminals, and does this quite seriously and honestly." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is true we love life; not because we are wont to live, but because we are wont to love." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Compassion and love for mankind is a development of the sexual instinct, justice a development of the passion for revenge. Virtue is the pleasure in resistance, the will to power; honour is the recognition of one's peers and equals in power." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"دل را نگاه دار! دل چو رفت سرنیز چه زود از پیِ دل می رود!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"And finally, to call to mind the enormous influence which ""German philosophy""--I hope you understand its right to inverted commas-" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"And now we celebrate, in victory bound, The feast of feasts:Friend Zarathustra came, the guest of guests!Now laughs the world, the ancient curtain's torn,And light and darkness wedded are as one..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The philosopher seeks to hear within himself the echoes of the world symphony and to re-project them in the form of concepts. While he is contemplative-perceptive like the artist, compassionate like the religious, a seeker of purposes and causalities like the scientist, even while he feels himself swelling into a macrocosm, he all the while retains a certain self-possession, a way of viewing himself coldly as a mirror of the world. This is the same sense of self-possession which characterizes the dramatic artist who transforms himself into alien bodies and talks with their alien tongues and yet can project this transformation into written verse that exists in the outsitle world on its own. ""Vhat verse is for the poet, dialectical thinking is for the philosopher.Friedrich Nietzsche, Philosophy in the Tragic Age of the Greeks, Regnery Publishing, 1998, 117. (p.48)" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What would be the value of a god who knew nothing of anger, revenge, envy, scorn, cunning, violence? who had perhaps never experienced the rapturous ardeurs of victory and of destruction? No one would understand such a god: why should any one want him? - True enough, when a nation is on the downward path, when it feels its belief in its own future, its hope of freedom slipping from it, when it begins to see submission as a first necessity and the virtues of submission as measures of self-preservation, then it must overhaul its god. He then becomes a hypocrite, timorous and demure; he counsels ""peace of soul,"" hate-no-more, leniency, ""love"" of friend and foe. He moralizes endlessly; he creeps into every private virtue; he becomes the god of every man; he becomes a private citizen, a cosmopolitan... Formerly he represented a people, the strength of a people, everything aggressive and thirsty for power in the soul of a people; now he is simply the good god." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"there may even be puritanical fanatics of conscience, who prefer to put their last trust in a sure nothing, rather than in an uncertain something." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Ultimately, nobody can get more out of things, including books, than he already knows." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"You implanted your highest goal into the heart of those passions: then they became your virtues and joys." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Where does it come from, this sickliness? For man is more sick, uncertain, changeable, indeterminate than any other animal, there is no doubt of that — he is the sick animal: how has that come about? Certainly he has also dared more, done more new things, braved more and challenged fate more than all the other animals put together: he, the great experimenter with himself, discontented and insatiable, wrestling with animals, nature, and gods for ultimate domination — he, still unvanquished, eternally directed toward the future, whose own restless energies never leave him in peace, so that his future digs like a spur into the flesh of every present — how should such a courageous and richly endowed animal not also be the most imperiled, the most chronically and profoundly sick of all sick animals?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In Paul is incarnated the very opposite of the 'bearer of glad tidings'; he represents the genius for hatred, the vision of hatred, the relentless logic of hatred. What, indeed, has not this dysangelist sacrificed to hatred! Above all, the Saviour: he nailed him to his own cross. The life, the example, the teaching, the death of Christ, the meaning and the law of the whole gospels—nothing was left of all this after that counterfeiter in hatred had reduced it to his uses. Surely not reality; surely not historical truth!... Once more the priestly instinct of the Jew perpetrated the same old master crime against history—he simply struck out the yesterday and the day before yesterday of Christianity, and invented his own history of Christian beginnings. Going further, he treated the history of Israel to another falsification, so that it became a mere prologue to his achievement: all the prophets, it now appeared, had referred to his 'Saviour.....What was the only part of Christianity that Mohammed borrowed later on? Paul's invention, his device for establishing priestly tyranny and organizing the mob: the belief in the immortality of the soul—that is to say, the doctrine of 'judgment'...." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"ادمی همین که شناختهای خود را با دیگران در میان می گذارد دیگر انها را چندان دوست ندارد" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is not enough to prove something, one has also to seduce or elevate people to it. That is why the man of knowledge should learn how to speak his wisdom: and often in such a way that it sounds like folly!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"CALM is the bottom of my sea: who would guess that it hides droll monsters!Unmoved is my depth: but it sparkles with swimming enigmas and laughters." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"بعض الناس لا يحق لك أن تمد يدك إليهم, بل كف الوحش وأريد أن تكون لكفك مخالب ايضا" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"(Broad daylight; breakfast; return of cheerfulness and bons sens; Plato blushes for shame; all free spirits run riot.)" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Hence the ways of men part: if you wish to strive for peace of soul and pleasure, then believe; if you wish to be a devotee of truth, then inquire..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The Greeks are interesting and extremely important because they reared such a vast number of great individuals. How was this possible? This question is one which ought to be studied" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When death brings at last the desired forgetfulness, it abolishes life and being together, and sets the seal on the knowledge that ""being"" is merely a continual ""has been,"" a thing that lives by denying and destroying and contradicting itself." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Even the worst thing has two good verso-sides." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We think too fast, even while walking or on the way, or while engaged in other things, no matter how serious the subject." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"How can we 'find ourselves' again? How can man 'know himself'? He is a thing obscure and veiled. If the hare has seven skins, man can cast from him seventy times seven skins, and not be able to say: 'Here you truly are; there is skin no more.'Also this digging into oneself, this straight, violent descent into the pit of one's being, is a troublesome and dangerous business to start. You may easily take such hurt, that no doctor can heal you. And what is the point: since everything bears witness to our essence — our friendships and enmities, our looks and greetings, our memories and forgetfulnesses, our books and our writing!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I don't want to be a saint, and would rather be a buffoon..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Where is the lightning to lick you with its tongue? Where is the madness with which you should be cleansed" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"For all the value that the true, the truthful, the selfless may deserve, it would still be possible that a higher and more fundamental value for life might have to be ascribed to deception, selfishness, and lust. It might even be possible that what constitutes the value of these good and revered things is precisely that they are insidiously related, tied to, and involved with these wicked, seemingly opposite things—maybe even one with them in essence. Maybe!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Those who know that they are profound strive for clarity. Those who would like to seem profound to the crowd strive for obscurity." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Books for the general reader are always ill-smelling books, the odour of paltry people clings to them. Where the populace eat and drink, and even where they reverence, it is accustomed to stink. One should not go into churches if one wishes to breathe pure air." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What? You seek something? You wish to multiply yourself tenfold, a hundredfold? You seek followers? Seek zeros!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Progress. — Let us not be deceived! Time marches forward; we'd like to believe that everything that is in it also marches forward— that the development is one that moves forward. The most level-headed are led astray by this illusion. But the nineteenth century does not represent progress over the sixteenth; and the German spirit of 1888 represents a regress from the German spirit of 1788. ""Mankind"" does not advance, it does not even exist. The overall aspect is that of a tremendous experimental laboratory in which a few successes are scored, scattered throughout all ages, while there are untold failures, and all order, logic, union, and obligingness are lacking. How can we fail to recognize that the ascent of Christianity is a movement of decadence? -That the German Reformation is a recrudescence of Christian barbarism? -That the Revolution destroyed the instinct for a grand organization of society? Man represents no progress over the animal: the civilized tenderfoot is an abortion compared to the Arab and Corsican; the Chinese is a more successful type, namely more durable, than the European." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"إن ما فُطرنا عليه هو أن نخلق كائناً يتفوَّ علينا، تلك هى غريزة الحركة والعمل." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Nihilism appears at that point, not that the displeasure at existence has become greater than before but because one has come to mistrust any ""meaning"" in suffering, indeed in existence. One interpretation has collapsed; but because it was considered the interpretation it now seems as if there were no meaning at all in existence, as if everything were in vain." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"هذا - هو طريقي - فأين طريقكم ؟""هكذا كنت أجيب أولئك الذين يسألونني عن ""الـ طريق"" . ذلك أن الطريق - لا وجود لها البتة !" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Con người là một cái gì đó cần phải vượt qua." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Wherever life and knowledge seemed to contradict each other, there was never any serious struggle: in such cases, denial and doubt amounted to madness." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Herd-Instinct. - Wherever we meet with a morality we find a valuation and order of rank of the human impulses and activities. These valuations and orders of rank are always the expression of the needs of a community or herd: that which is in the first place to its advantage- and in the second place and third place-is also the authoritative standard for the worth of every individual. By morality the individual is taught to become a function of the herd, and to ascribe to himself value only as a function. As the conditions for the maintenance of one community have been very different from those of another community, there have been very different moralities; and in respect to the future essential transformations of herds and communities, states and societies, one can prophesy that there will still be very divergent moralities. Morality is the herd-instinct in the individual." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Woman wants to be taken and accepted as a possession, she wishes to be merged in the conceptions of ""possession"" and ""possessed""; consequently she wants one who takes, who does not offer and give himself away" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"وإذا كنت عاسقا للحقيقة فلا يغرنك أصحاب العقول الرعناء المتصلبة، وما كانت الحقيقة تستند يوما إلي ذراع أحد هؤلاء المتصلبين.دع المشاغبين وارجع إلي مقرك, فما ميدان الجماهير إلا معترك يهدد سلامتك بين خنوع (نعم) وتمرد (لا). إن تجمع المياة في الينابيع لايتم إلا ببط, وقد تمر أزمان قبل ان تدرك المجاري ما استقر في أغوارها." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"إنّ رجل العلم الذي لا يقوم على العموم سوي بـ""تقليب"" الكتب - عمليّة ترتفع لدي الفيلولوجي من النوع المتوسّط الى عدد ال 200 يومياً- يفتقد مع الوقت القدرة على التفكير بصفة مستقلّة.وإذا لم يقلّب فإنّه لا يفكّر .إنّه يستجيب لمثير عندما يفكّر." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"They are now informing me that not only are they better than the powerful, the masters of the world whose spittle they have to lick (not from fear, not at all from fear! but because God orders them to honour those in authority) – not only are they better, but they have a 'better time', or at least will have a better time one day. But enough! enough! I can't bear it any longer. Bad air! Bad air! This workshop where ideals are fabricated – it seems to me just to stink of lies." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"IT is an eternal phenomenon: the insatiate will can always, by means of an illusion spread over things, detain its creatures in life and compel them to live on. One is chained by the Socratic love of knowledge and the delusion of being able thereby to heal the eternal wound of existence; another is ensnared by art's seductive veil of beauty fluttering before his eyes; still another by the metaphysical comfort that beneath the flux of phenomena eternal life flows on indestructibly: to say nothing of the more ordinary and almost more powerful illusions which the will has always at hand. These three planes of illusion are on the whole designed only for the more nobly formed natures, who in general feel profoundly the weight and burden of existence, and must be deluded by exquisite stimulants into forgetfulness of their sorrow." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"At the risk of displeasing innocent ears, I propose that egoism belongs to the nature of a noble soul, I mean that unshakable faith that to a being such as 'we are' other beings must be subordinate by nature and have to sacrifice themselves. The noble soul accepts this fact of its egoism without any question mark, without a feeling that it might contain hardness, constraint, or caprice, but rather as something that may be founded in the primordial law of things: if it sought a name for this fact it would say ‘it is justice itself.' Perhaps it admits under certain circumstances, which, at first, make it hesitate, that there are some who have rights equal to its own; as soon as this matter of rank is settled, it moves among these equals, with their equal privileges, showing the same sureness of modesty and delicate reverence that characterize its relations with itself – in accordance with an innate heavenly mechanism, understood by all stars. It is merely another aspect of its egoism, this refinement and self-limitation in its relations with its equals – every star is such an egoist – it honors itself in them, and in the rights it cedes to them; it does not doubt that the exchange of honors and rights is of the nature of all social relations, and thus also belongs to the natural condition of things.The noble soul gives as it takes from that passionate and irritable instinct of repayment that lies in its depth. The concept of grace has no meaning or good odor inter pares; there may be a sublime way to let presents from above happen to one, as it were, and to drink them up thirstily, like drops, but for this art and gesture the noble soul has no aptitude. Its egoism hinders it: quite generally it does not like to look 'up,' but either ahead , horizontally and slowly, or down: it knows itself to be at a height." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"All living things need an atmosphere around them, a secret circle of darkness. If this veil is taken from them, if people condemn a religion, an art, a genius to orbit like a star without an atmosphere, then we should no longer wonder about their rapid decay and the way they become hard and barren. That is the way it is now with all great things which never succeed without some delusion. But every people, indeed every person, who wishes to become mature needs such an enveloping delusion, such a protecting and veiling cloud. But today people generally despise becoming mature, because they honour history more than living. Indeed, people exult over the fact that now 'science is beginning to rule over living'. It is possible that people will attain that goal but it is certain that a life so governed is not worth much, because it is much less living and it establishes a life for the future far less than does the previous life governed not by knowledge but by instinct and powerful illusory images. But, as stated, it is clearly not to be the era of fully developed and mature people, of harmonious personalities, but the era of common work which is as useful as possible. That, however, amounts only to the fact that people are to be trained for the purposes of the time, in order to get to work with their hands as promptly as possible. They are to labour in the factories of the universal utilities before they are mature, that is, so that they really no longer become mature, because this would be a luxury, which would deprive the 'labour market' of a lot of power." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"These trumpeters of reality are bad musicians." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Out of your poisons you brewed your balsam. You milked your cow, melancholy; now you drink the sweet milk of her udder." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Later on, towards the middle of my life, I grew more and more opposed to alcoholic drinks: I, an opponent of vegetarianism, who have experienced what vegetarianism is, — just as Wagner, who converted me back to meat, experienced it, — cannot with sufficient earnestness advise all more spiritual natures to abstain absolutely from alcohol. Water answers the purpose. . . . I have a predilection in favour of those places where in all directions one has opportunities of drinking from running brooks. In vino Veritas: it seems that here once more I am at variance with the rest of the world about the concept 'Truth' — with me spirit moves on the face of the waters. . . . Here are a few more indications as to my morality. A heavy meal is digested more easily than an inadequate one. The first principle of a good digestion is that the stomach should become active as a whole. A man ought, therefore, to know the size of his stomach. For the same reasons all those interminable meals, which I call interrupted sacrificial feasts, and which are to be had at any table d'hôte, are strongly to be deprecated. Nothing should be eaten between meals, coffee should be given up — coffee makes one gloomy. Tea is beneficial only in the morning. It should be taken in small quantities, but very strong. It may be very harmful, and indispose you for the whole day, if it be taken the least bit too weak. Everybody has his own standard in this matter, often between the narrowest and most delicate limits. In an enervating climate tea is not a good beverage with which to start the day: an hour before taking it an excellent thing is to drink a cup of thick cocoa, feed from oil. Remain seated as little as possible, put no trust in any thought that is not born in the open, to the accompaniment of free bodily motion — nor in one in which even the muscles do not celebrate a feast. All prejudices take their origin in the intestines. A sedentary life, as I have already said elsewhere, is the real sin against the Holy Spirit." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The everlasting and exclusive coming-to-be, the impermanence of everything actual, which constantly acts and comes-to-be but never is, as Heraclitus teaches it, is a terrible, paralyzing thought. Its impact on men can most nearly be likened to the sensation during an earthquake when one loses one's familiar confidence in a firmly grounded earth. It takes astonishing strength to transform this reaction into its opposite, into sublimity and the feeling of blessed astonishment.(p.58)" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"هناك حيث تنتهى الدولة يبدأ الإنسان الذى ليس فائضا عن اللزوم" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The slave revolt in morality begins when 'ressentiment' itself becomes creative and gives birth to values: the ressentiment of natures that are denied the true reaction, that of deeds, and compensate themselves with an imaginary revenge. While every noble morality develops from a triumphant affirmation of itself, slave morality from the outset says No to what is ""outside,"" what is ""different,"" what is ""not itself""; and this No is its creative deed." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Wisdom in Pain.-In pain there is as much wisdom as in pleasure: like the latter it is one of the best self-preservatives of a species. Were it not so, pain would long ago have been done away with ; that it is hurtful is no argument against it, for to be hurtful is its very essence. In pain I hear the commanding call of the ship's captain : "" Take in sail!"" "" Man,"" the bold seafarer, must have learned to set his sails in a thousand different ways, otherwise he could not have sailed long, for the ocean would soon have swallowed him up. We must also know how to live with reduced energy : as soon as pain gives its precautionary signal, it is time to reduce the speed-some great danger, some storm, is approaching, and we do well to ""catch"" as little wind as possible.-It is true that there are men who, on the approach of severe pain, hear the very opposite call of command, and never appear more proud, more martial, or more happy than when the storm is brewing; indeed, pain itself provides them with their supreme moments! These are the heroic men, the great pain-bringers of mankind: those few and rare ones who need just the same apology as pain generally,-and verily, it should not be denied them! They are forces of the greatest importance for preserving and advancing the species, be it only because they are opposed to smug ease, and do not conceal their disgust at this kind of happiness." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"That the other suffers must be learned; and it can never be learned completely." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"ودودا كنت دوما تجاه كل فظيع" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One knows a little too much about everybody. And we can even see through some men, and yet we can by no means pass through them." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Should not the giver be thankful that the receiver received? Is not giving a need? Is not receiving mercy?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When a man feels that he has a divine mission, say to lift up, to save or to liberate mankind - when a man feels the divine spark in his heart and believes that he is the mouthpiece of supernatural imperatives - when such a mission inflames him, it is only natural that he should stand beyond all merely reasonable standards of judgment. He feels that he is himself sanctified by this mission, that he is himself a type of a higher order!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Forgetfulness is a property of all action. The man of action is also without knowledge: he forgets most things in order to do one, he is unjust to what is behind him, and only recognizes one law - the law of that which is to be." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"spirit and his solitude, and for ten years did not weary of it. But finally he had a change of heart" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Now and again an echo of Chopin's music rings in my ears, and this much you absorb me that, at such moments I always think of you and lose myself in meditating about possibilities." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The impossible class. — Poor, happy and independent! — these things can go together; poor, happy and a slave! — these things can also go together — and I can think of no better news I could give to our factory slaves: provided, that is, they do not feel it to be in general a disgrace to be thus used, and used up, as a part of a machine and as it were a stopgap to fill a hole in human inventiveness!To the devil with the belief that higher payment could lift from them the essence of their miserable condition I mean their impersonal enslavement!To the devil with the idea of being persuaded that an enhancement of this impersonality within the mechanical operation of a new society could transform the disgrace of slavery into a virtue!To the devil with setting a price on oneself in exchange for which one ceases to be a person and becomes a part of a machine!Are you accomplices in the current folly of the nations the folly of wanting above all to produce as much as possible and to become as rich as possible? What you ought to do, rather, is to hold up to them the counter-reckoning: how great a sum of inner value is thrown away in pursuit of this external goal!But where is your inner value if you no longer know what it is to breathe freely? if you no longer possess the slightest power over yourselves? if you all too often grow weary of yourselves like a drink that has been left too long standing? if you pay heed to the newspapers and look askance at your wealthy neighbour, made covetous by the rapid rise and fall of power, money and opinions? if you no longer believe in philosophy that wears rags, in the free-heartedness of him without needs? if voluntary poverty and freedom from profession and marriage, such as would very well suit the more spiritual among you, have become to you things to laugh at? If, on the other hand, you have always in your ears the flutings of the Socialist pied-pipers whose design is to enflame you with wild hopes? which bid you to be prepared and nothing further, prepared day upon day, so that you wait and wait for something to happen from outside and in all other respects go on living as you have always lived until this waiting turns to hunger and thirst and fever and madness, and at last the day of the bestia triumphans dawns in all its glory?In contrast to all this, everyone ought to say to himself: ‘better to go abroad, to seek to become master in new and savage regions of the world and above all master over myself; to keep moving from place to place for just as long as any sign of slavery seems to threaten me; to shun neither adventure nor war and, if the worst should come to the worst, to be prepared for death: all this rather than further to endure this indecent servitude, rather than to go on becoming soured and malicious and conspiratorial!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Thus, the person of experience and reflection writes history. Anyone who has not experienced life on a greater and higher level than everyone else will not know how to interpret the greatness and loftiness of the past. The utterance of the past is always an oracular pronouncement. You will understand it only as builders of the future and as people who know about the present. People now explain the extraordinarily deep and far-reaching effect of Delphi by the particular fact that the Delphic priests had precise knowledge about the past. It is appropriate now to understand that only the man who builds the future has a right to judge the past. In order to look ahead, set yourselves an important goal, and at the same time control that voluptuous analytical drive with which you now lay waste the present and render almost impossible all tranquility, all peaceful growth and maturing. Draw around yourself the fence of a large and extensive hope, an optimistic striving. Create in yourselves a picture to which the future is to correspond, and forget the myth that you are epigones. You have enough to plan and to invent when you imagine that future life for yourselves. But in considering history do not ask that she show you the 'How?' and the 'With what?' If, however, you live your life in the history of great men, then you will learn from history the highest command: to become mature and to flee away from that paralyzing and prohibiting upbringing of the age, which sees advantages for itself in not allowing you to become mature, in order to rule and exploit you, the immature. And when you ask after biographies, then do not ask for those with the refrain 'Mr. Soandso and His Age' but for those whose title page must read 'A Fighter Against His Age.' Fill your souls with Plutarch, and dare to believe in yourselves when you have faith in his heroes. With a hundred people raised in such an unmodern way, that is, people who have become mature and familiar with the heroic, one could permanently silence the entire noisy pseudo-education of this age." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What makes heroic? – To go to meet simultaneously one's greatest sorrow and one's greatest hope." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In the heroic effort of the individual to attain universality, in the attempt to transcend the curse of individuation and to become the  world-being, he suffers in his own person the primordial contradiction that is concealed in things, which means that he commits sacrilege and suffers." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Physiologically, everything ugly weakens and saddens man. It reminds him of decay, danger, impotence; it actually deprives him of strength ... Whenever man is depressed at all, he senses the proximity of something 'ugly.' His feeling of power, his will to power, his courage, his pride - all fall with the ugly and rise with the beautiful ... The ugly is understood as a sign and symptom of degeneration: whatever reminds us in the least of degeneration causes in us the judgement of 'ugly.' Every suggestion of exhaustion, of heaviness, of age, of weariness; every kind of lack of freedom, such as cramps, such as paralysis; and above all, the smell, the color, the form of dissolution, of decomposition - even in the ultimate attenuation into a symbol - all evoke the same reaction, the value judgement 'ugly.' A hatred is aroused ... the decline of his type. Here he hates out of the deepest instinct of the species ... it is the deepest hatred there is. It is because of this that art is deep." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Însă în ceea ce îi priveşte pe „prietenii cei buni', mereu prea comozi şi care, tocmai ca prieteni, îşi închipuie că au dreptul la comoditate, faci bine dacă le avansezi un loc de joacă, o arenă a nepriceperii lor: vei avea astfel pricină de râs; - sau să-i înlături cu totul pe aceşti prieteni buni, - şi iar să râzi!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"nihilism represents the ultimate logical conclusion of our great values and ideals—because we must experience nihilism before we can find out what value these ""values"" really had.'— We require, sometime, new values." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Man verdirbt einen Jüngling am sichersten, wenn man ihn anleitet, den Gleichdenkenden höher zu achten, als den Andersdenkenden." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Genius too does nothing but learn first how to lay bricks then how to build, and continually seek for material and continually form itself around it.Every activity of man is amazingly complicated, not only that of the genius: but none is a ‘miracle." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"...love of truth is something fearsome and mighty." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"If the poet is not a real genius, I do not know what a genius is." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"إننا جميعا حمير وأتانات جيدة لحمل الأثقال" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Sometimes, you have to love beyond yourself! And that's how you learn to love! That's why you had to drink the bitter glass of your love." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When your heart overfloweth broad and full like the river, a blessing and a danger to the lowlanders: there is the origin of your virtue." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"An incalculable number of higher individuals now perish: but he who escapes their fate is as strong as the devil." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"of us is the Oedipus here? Which the Sphinx? It would seem to be a rendezvous of questions and notes of interrogation. And could it be believed that it at last seems to us as if the problem had never been propounded before, as if we were the first to discern it, get a sight of it, and RISK RAISING it? For there is risk in raising it, perhaps there is no greater risk." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The Don Juan of knowledge: he has yet to be discovered by any philosopher or poet. He is lacking in love for the things he comes to know, but he has intellect, titillation, and pleasure in the hunt and intrigues involved in coming to know--all the way up to the highest and most distant planets of knowledge--until finally nothing remains for him to hunt down other than what is absolutely painful in knowledge, like the drunkard who ends up drinking absinthe and acqua fortis. Thus he ends up lusting for hell--it is the last knowledge that seduces him. Perhaps, like everything he has come to know, it will disillusion him as well! And then he would have to stand still for all of eternity, nailed on the spot to disillusionment, and himself having become the stone guest longing for an evening meal of knowledge that he never again will receive!--For the entire world of things no longer has a single morsel to offer this hungry man." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"By saying 'God sees into the heart' it denies the deepest and the highest desires of life and takes God for the enemy of life. The saint in whom God takes pleasure is the ideal castrate. Life is at an end where the kingdom of God begins." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"... for the objective of all human arrangements is through distracting one's thoughts to cease to be aware of life." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"No victor believes in chance." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"من يرى الهاوية, لكن بعينين صقر, ومن يلمس قاع الهاوية بمخالب صقر, ذلك هو الشجاع" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Live so that thou mayest desire to live again - that is thy duty - for in any case thou wilt live again!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One!O man! Take heed!Two!What says deep midnight's voice indeed?Three!""I slept my sleep-Four!""From deepest dream I've woke and plead:-Five!""The world is deep,Six!""And deeper than the day could read.Seven!""Deep is its woe-Eight!""Joy- deeper still than grief can be:Nine!""Woe says: Hence! Go!Ten!""But joys all want eternity-Eleven!""Want deep profound eternity!""Twelve!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"If you could imagine dissonance assuming human form - and what else is man? - this dissonance would need, to be able to live, a magnificent illusion which would spread a veil of beauty over its own nature.' Friedrich Nietzsche, The Birth of Tragedy, ed. R. Geuss & R. Speirs, Cambridge, 2007, 163. (p.154)" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"For, confronted with morality (especially Christian, or unconditional, morality), life  continually and inevitably be in the wrong, because life  something essentially amoral--and eventually, crushed by the weight of contempt and the eternal No, life  then be felt to be unworthy of desire and altogether worthless." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When the Christian Crusaders in the East came into collision with that invincible order of assassins, that order of free spirits par excellence, whose lowest grade lives in a state of discipline such as no order of monks has ever attained, then in some way or other they managed to get an inkling of that symbol and tally- word, that was reserved for the highest grade alone as their secretum, ""Nothing is true, everything is allowed,"" — in sooth, that was freedom of thought, thereby was taking leave of the very belief in truth." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One person seeks a midwife for his thoughts; the other, someone he can assist. Here is the origin of a good conversation." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The word of the past is an oracle uttered. Only as builders of the future, as knowing the present, will you understand it." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What is great in man is that he is a bridge and not a goal: what is lovable in man is that he is an over-going and a down-going." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The Good Person of today is incapable of approaching anything except in a dishonest way–but with innocence, a true blue-eyed virtuously mendacious way. These Good People are ruined: they cannot stand a single truth about Man." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"من لا يستطيع أن يبارك عليه أن يتعلم كيف يلعن" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The revolution made Napoleon possible: that is its justification. For the sake of a similar prize one would have to desire the anarchical collapse of our entire civilisation." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The labyrinthine man never seeks the truth but always and only his Ariadne." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What a school of politeness is such a contemplation of the past! To take everything objectively, to be angry at nothing, to love nothing, to understand everything-- makes one gentle and pliable." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What could destroy us more quickly than working, thinking, and feeling without any inner necessity, without any deeply personal choice, without pleasure - as an automaton of ""duty""? This is the very recipe for decadence, even for idiocy." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The false contrasts which the people, and consequently the language, believes in, are always dangerous fetters which impede the march of truth." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"أيها البشر الزائلون التعساء، يا أبناء المخاطر والشدائد! لماذا تجبرونني على قول ما قد يكون الأفضل لكم ألا تسمعوه؟ إن أفضل الأشياء هو الشيء الذي يوجد خارج قبضتكم كليةً: ألا تولدوا، ألا تكونوا، أن تكونوا لا شيء. ولكن ثاني أفضل الأشياء لكم هو أن تندثروا في أقرب وقت." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Whoever extolleth him as a God of love, doth not think highly enough of love itself. Did not that God want also to be judge? But the loving one loveth irrespective of reward and requital." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To fight upward out of that chaos to this form requires a compulsion: one must be faced with the choice of perishing or prevailing. A dominating race can grow up only out of terrible and violent beginnings." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There is not enough love and kindness in the world to permit us to give any of it away to imaginary beings." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"إنه الرب نفسه الذي يلتف في نهاية يوم عمله على شكل حيّة عند أسفل شجرة المعرفة. وهكذا فإن الرب نفسه يشفى. لقد جعل كل شيء جميلاً جداً. إن الشيطان هوّ بكل بساطة لحظة كسل من الرب في نهاية اليوم السابع" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A sedentary life is the real sin against the Holy Spirit. Only those thoughts that come by walking have any value." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"أليس للكائنات الثقيلة قد تم إبتداع كل الكلمات ؟ أوليست الكلمات كلها كاذبة بالنسبة للإنسان الخفيف ؟ غنّ أو كف عن الكلام !" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What is familiar is what we are used to; and what we are used to is most difficult to 'Know' - that is, to see as a problem; that is, to see as strange, as distant, as 'outside us'." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The origin of morality may be traced to two ideas:'The community is of more value than the individual,''The permanent interest is to be preferred to the temporary.'The conclusion drawn is that the permanent interest of the community is unconditionally to be set above the temporary interest of the individual, especially his momentary well-being, but also his permanent interest and even the prolongation of his existence.Even if the individual suffers by an arrangement that suits the mass, even if he is depressed and ruined by it, morality must be maintained and the victim brought to the sacrifice.Such a trend of thought arises, however, only in those who are not the victims—for in the victim's case it enforces the claim that the individual might be worth more than the many, and that the present enjoyment, the 'moment in paradise,' should perhaps be rated higher than a tame succession of untroubled or comfortable circumstances.But the philosophy of the sacrificial victim always finds voice too late, and so victory remains with morals and morality.But this is really nothing more than the sentiment for the whole concept of morals under which one lives and has been reared—and reared not as an individual but as a member of the whole, as a cipher in a majority.Hence it constantly happens that the individual makes himself into a majority by means of his morality." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Injury makes one prudent,' says the proverb; insofar as it makes one prudent it also makes one bad. Fortunately, it frequently makes people stupid." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"دوست مي دارم آناني را كه براي فرو شدن و فرا شدن نخست فراپشت ستارگان از پي دليل نميگردند، بل خويش را فداي زمين ميكنند تا زمين روزي از آن ابر انسان شود" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The more thoroughly a person understands life, the less he will mock, though in the end he might still mock the ""thoroughness of his understanding." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Only when he has attained a final knowledge of all things will man have come to know himself. For things are only the boundaries of man." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The minds of others I know well;But who I am I cannot tell" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Năzuinţa omului spre „liberul arbitru', în înţelesul superlativ şi metafizic care din păcate mai domneşte încă în creierele semidocte, vrerea de a purta întreaga şi ultima responsabilitate pentru actele sale, descărcând-o din spinarea lui Dumnezeu, a lumii, a eredităţii, a întâmplării, a societăţii, este nici mai mult, nici mai puţin decât dorinţa de a fi însăşi causa sui. Cu o cutezanţă mai mare decât aceea a baronului de Munchhausen, omul încearcă, trăgându-se de păr, să se smulgă din mlaştina neantului, pentru a se înălţa în existentă. Iar de s-ar hotărî vreunul să-i facă vânt neroziei rustice a acestei noţiuni faimoase a „liberului arbitru' şi să şi-o scoată din cap l-aş ruga să mai facă un pas pe calea „iluminării' sale şi să procedeze aşijderea şi în privinţa contrariului acestei pseudonoţiuni a „liberului arbitru': mă refer la „vrerea încătuşată' care conduce la un abuz al noţiunilor de cauză şi efect. „Cauza' şi „efectul' nu trebuie concretizate, precum o fac în mod greşit naturaliştii (şi toţi cei care naturalizează azi în gândire, asemenea lor), care se conformează neroziei mecaniciste dominante ce îşi imaginează cauza drept ceva care trage şi împinge până în momentul în care este obţinut efectul: trebuie să ne folosim de „cauză' şi de „efect"" doar ca de nişte noţiuni pure, adică în chip de ficţiuni convenţionale în scopul desemnării, al comunicării, şi nu pentru cel al explicaţiei. Noţiunea de „în sine' nu conţine nici un dram de „legătură cauzală', de „necesitate', de „determinism psihologic', în cazul ei efectul nu este urmarea cauzei, în cadrul ei nu domneşte nici o „lege'. Noi singuri am fost cei care am inventat cauzele, succesiunea, reciprocitatea, relativitatea, obligativitatea, numărul, legea, libertatea, temeiul, ţinta; iar când introducem şi amestecăm în lucruri această lume de semne născocite de noi înşine, în chip de lucruri „în sine', procedăm iarăşi precum am făcut întotdeauna, şi anume mitologic. „Voinţa încătuşată' este un mit: în realitate, se poate vorbi doar despre voinţe puternice şi slabe. - Când un gânditor simte că a descoperit deodată în întreaga „înlănţuire cauzală"" şi în întreaga „necesitate psihologică' ceva ce seamănă a constrângere, a necesitate, a succesiune obligatorie, a presiune, a încătuşare - aceasta este mai întotdeauna semnul că în cazul lui ceva nu este în regulă: a simţi astfel e un simptom revelator, - respectivul se demască pe sine; şi, în general, în caz că observaţiile mele sunt exacte, problema determinismului este cercetată sub două aspecte diametral opuse, însă întotdeauna într-un mod profund personal: unii nu vor să cedeze cu niciun preţ din „responsabilitatea' lor, din credinţa în sine, din dreptul personal asupra meritelor tor (acesta e cazul raselor vanitoase), ceilalţi, dimpotrivă, nu vor să-si asume responsabilitatea şi vinovăţia pentru nimic, dorind, dintr-un tăinuit dispreţ de sine, să poată da bir cu fugiţii, indiferent în ce direcţie, din faţa eului lor. Când scriu cărţi, aceştia din urmă obişnuiesc să ia apărarea în zilele noastre răufăcătorilor; deghizarea lor preferată este un fel de compătimire socialistă. Si, într-adevăr, fatalismul celor cu voinţa slabă se înfrumuseţează uimitor din momentul în care reuşeşte să se dea drept la religion de la souffrance humaine: este felul său de a-si demonstra „bunul gust'." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To chew and digest everything, however—that is thegenuine swine-nature! Ever to say ye-a—that hath onlythe ass learnt, and those like it!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Did I seek where the wind bites keenest, learn to live where no one lives, in the desert where only the polar bear lives, unlearn to pray and curse, unlearn man and god, become a ghost flitting across the glaciers?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There is nothing more terrible than a barbaric slave class, who have learned to regard their existence as an injustice, and now prepare to take vengeance, not only for themselves, but for all generations." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Corruption is just a rude word for the autumn of a people." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"أناشدكم أن تظلوا أوفياء للأرض يا إخوتى, وألا تصدقون أولئك الذين يحدثونكم عن آمال فوق أرضية ! مُعدو سموم أولئك, سواء أكانوا يعلمون ذلك أو لا يعلمون, مستخفون بالحياة هم, محتضرون ومتسممون بدورهم, ملتهم الحياة, فليرحلوا إذاً !" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"But a spirit who is sure of himself speaks softly; he seeks secrecy, he lets himself be awaited." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The surest aid in combating the male's disease of self-contempt is to be loved by a clever woman." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"This workshop where ideals are manufactured--it seems to me it stinks of so many lies" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Zarathustra saw many lands and many peoples: thus he discovered the good and evil of many peoples. No greater power did Zarathustra find on earth than good and evil." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We must know how to preserve ourselves: the greatest test of independence." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"That need to talk, talk, talk; I mistrust it, it repulses me. Most people are equivalent to noise for me. Outer noise. Contaminating noise. See, they feel like noise which is perfectly unrelated with intensity. My inner system can accept noise associated only with powerful living, not weak and stupidly persistent surviving." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The good life is that which succeeds in existing for the moment, without reference to past or future, without condemnation or selection, in a state of absolute lightness, and in the finished conviction that there is no difference therefore between the instant and eternity." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"They dislike, therefore, to hear of 'contempt' of themselves. So I will appeal to their pride." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Be careful when you cast out your demons that you don't throw away the best of yourself." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Ich lehre euch den Übermenschen. Der Mensch ist Etwas, das überwunden werden soll. Was habt ihr gethan, ihn zu überwinden? Was ist der Affe für en Menschen? Ein Gelächter oder eine schmerzliche Scham. Und ebendas soll der Mensch für den Übermenschen sein: ein Gelächter oder eine schmerzliche Scham. Ihr habt den Weg vom Wurme zum Menschen gemacht, und Vieles ist in euch noch Wurm. Einst wart ihr Affen, und auch jetzt ist der Mensch mehr Affe, als irgend ein Affe." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When you look into the abyss, the abyss looks into you." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"As the will to truth thus gains self-consciousness ― there can be no doubt that morality will gradually perish: this is the great spectacle in a hundred acts reserved for the next two centuries in Europe ― the most terrible, most questionable, and perhaps also the most hopeful of spectacles." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To stay cheerful when involved in a gloomy and exceedingly responsible business is no inconsiderable art: yet what could be more necessary than cheerfulness? Nothing succeeds in which high spirits play no part. Only excess of strength is proof of strength. - A revaluation of all values, this question mark so black, so huge it casts a shadow over him who sets it up - such a destiny of a task compels one every instant to run out into the sunshine so as to shake off a seriousness grown all too oppressive." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"apa yang dilakukan demi cinta, selalu terjadi diluar kebaikan dan kejahatan" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We are so fond of being out among Nature, because it has no opinions about us." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Thus do the gods justify the life of man: they themselves live it--the only satisfactory theodicy!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Honest things, like honest men, do not carry their reasons in their hands like that. It is indecent to show all five fingers. What must first be proved is worth little." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There is no beast without cruelty" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"kegilaan adalah suatu yang langka dalam individu--tapi dalam kelompok, partai politik, negara, epos, ia adalah peraturan..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Better, however, to be foolish with happiness than foolish with misfortune, better to dance awkwardly than walk lamely." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The discerning one walketh amongst men as amongst animals." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The people on their part may think that cognition is knowing all about things, but the philosopher must say to himself: ""When I analyze the process that is expressed in the sentence, 'I think,' I find a whole series of daring assertions, the argumentative proof of which would be difficult, perhaps impossible: for instance, that it is I who think, that there must necessarily be something that thinks, that thinking is an activity and operation on the part of a being who is thought of as a cause, that there is an 'ego,' and finally, that it is already determined what is to be designated by thinking—that I KNOW what thinking is." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"No matter how strongly a thing may be believed, strength of belief is no criterion of truth.' But what is truth? Perhaps a kind of belief that has become a condition of life?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Love's cruel notion. - Every great love brings with it the cruel idea of killingthe object of that love, so that he may be removed once and for all fromthe wicked game of change: for love dreads change more than it doesdestruction." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"He who has a  to live for can bear with almost any ." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What makes one heroic?— Going out to meet at the same time one's highest suffering and one's highest hope." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Mutter ich bin dumm." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Precisely the least thing, the gentlest, lightest, the rustling of a lizard, a breath, a moment, a twinkling of the eye -  makes up the quality of the  happiness. Soft!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"أن انسانيتى هى تجاوز متواصل للذات" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I love him whose soul is deep even in the wounding, and may perish through a small matter: thus he goes willingly over the bridge." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"كل شئ منذور إلى الفناء, لذلك فكل شئ لا يستحق غير الفناء !" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What is it, fundamentally, that allows us to recognize who has turned out well? That a well-turned out person pleases our senses, that he is carved from wood that is hard, delicate, and at the same time smells good. He has a taste only for what is good for him; his pleasure, his delight cease where the measure of what is good for him is transgressed. He guesses what remedies avail against what is harmful; he exploits bad accidents to his advantage; what does not kill him makes him stronger. Instinctively, he collects from everything he sees, hears, lives through, his sum: he is a principle of selection, he discards much. He is always in his own company, whether he associates with books, human beings, or landscapes: he honors by choosing, by admitting, by trusting. He reacts slowly to all kinds of stimuli, with that slowness which long caution and deliberate pride have bred in him: he examines the stimulus that approaches him, he is far from meeting it halfway. He believes neither in 'misfortune' nor in 'guilt': he comes to terms with himself, with others: he knows how to forget — he is strong enough; hence everything must turn out for his best." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I love him whose soul is lavish, who wants no thanks and does not give back: for he always gives, and desires not to keep for himself." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The disappointed man speaks.—I sought great human beings, I never found anything but the apes of their ideal." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"dearest—every person is a prison and also a recess." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is not your sin - it is your moderation that cries to heaven; your very sparingness in sin cries to heaven!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"He who cannot find the way to HIS ideal, lives more frivolously and shamelessly than the man without an ideal." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Nothing burns one up faster than the affects of ressentiment. Anger, pathological vulnerability, impotent lust for revenge, thirst for revenge, poison-mixing in any sense—no reaction could be more disadvantageous for the exhausted: such affects involve a rapid consumption of nervous energy, a pathological increase of harmful excretions—for example, of the gall bladder into the stomach. Ressentiment is what is forbidden par excellence for the sick—it is their specific evil—unfortunately also their most natural inclination." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"For while Copernicus has persuaded us to believe, contrary to all the senses, that the earth does NOT stand fast, Boscovich has taught us to abjure the belief in the last thing that ""stood fast"" of the earth—the belief in ""substance,"" in ""matter,"" in the earth-residuum, and particle-atom: it is the greatest triumph over the senses that has hitherto been gained on earth." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"They would have to sing better songs to make me believe in their Redeemer; his disciples would have to look more redeemed!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is easier to cope with a bad conscience than with a bad reputation." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"If this is not an age of decay and declining vitality, it is at least one of headlong and arbitrary experimentation:— and it is probable that a superabundance of bungled experiments should create an overall impression as of decay— and perhaps even decay itself." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Dante, or the hyena that writes poetry in tombs." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Psychologists should bethink themselves before putting down the instinct of self-preservation as the cardinal instinct of an organic being. A living thing seeks above all to DISCHARGE its strength—life itself is WILL TO POWER; self-preservation is only one of the indirect and most frequent RESULTS thereof. In short, here, as everywhere else, let us beware of SUPERFLUOUS teleological principles!—one of which is the instinct of self-preservation (we owe it to Spinoza's inconsistency)." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"That individual philosophical concepts are not anything capricious or autonomously evolving, but grow up in connection and relationship with each other; that, however suddenly and arbitrarily they seem to appear in the history of thought, they nevertheless belong just as much to a system as all the members of the fauna of a continent - is betrayed in the end also by the fact that the most diverse philosophers keep filling in a definite fundamental scheme of possible philosophies. Under an invisible spell, they always revolve once more in the same orbit; however independent of each other they may feel themselves with their critical or systematic wills, something within them leads them, something impels them in a definite order, one after the other - to wit, the innate systematic structure and relationship of their concepts. Their thinking is, in fact, far less a discovery than a recognition, a remembering, a return and a homecoming to a remote, primordial, and inclusive household of the soul, out of which those concepts grew originally: philosophizing is to this extent a kind of atavism of the highest order." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"But the petty thought is like a fungus: it crawls and cringes and wants to be nowhere—until the whole body is rotten and withered with little fungi." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The wasteland grows." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In Solitude, the lonely man is eaten by himself.Among crowds, by the Many.Choose which you Prefer." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Or is it this: To feed on the acorns and grass of knowledge, and for the sake of truth to suffer hunger in one's soul?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"إن جمال الإنسان الأعلى جاءني كظل. آه يا إخوتي. ماذا تعني بالنسبة لي الآلهة" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Wir haben den Begriff ""Zweck"" erfunden: in der Realität fehlt der Zweck... Man ist nothwendig, man ist ein Stück Verhängniss, man gehört zum Ganzen, man ist im Ganzen, - es giebt Nichts, was unser Sein richten, messen, vergleichen, verurtheilen könnte, denn das hiesse das Ganze richten, messen, vergleichen, verurtheilen... Aber es giebt Nichts ausser dem Ganzen!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Enemy"" you shall say but not ""villain"", ""sick"" you shall say but not ""wretch"", ""fool"" you shall say but not ""sinner""." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The power of gradually losing all feeling of strangeness or astonishment, and finally being pleased at anything, is called the historical sense or historical culture." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"إن من اشتقت إليهم من ظننتهم أقرباء وأشباهاً لي،نُبذوا، لأنهم شاخوا:من يتبدّل وحده يبقى قريبي." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"All instincts that do not discharge themselves outwardly turn inward — this is what I call the internalization of man: thus it was that man first developed what was later called his 'soul." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What is great in man is that he is a bridge and not a goal" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When I seek another word for ‘music', I never find any other word than ‘Venice'." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"If everything we project onto reality to make it intelligible were eliminated, ― no things remain but only dynamic quanta, in a relation of tension to all other dynamic quanta." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One is in a state of hope because the basic physiological feeling is once again strong and rich; one trusts in God because the feeling of fullness and strength gives a sense of rest. Morality and religion belong entirely to the psychology of error: in every single case, cause and effect are confused; or truth is confused with the effects of believing something to be true; or a state of consciousness is confused with its physiological origins." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It has gradually become clear to me what every great philosophy up till now has consisted of—namely, the confession of its originator, and a species of involuntary and unconscious auto-biography; and moreover that the moral (or immoral) purpose in every philosophy has constituted the true vital germ out of which the entire plant has always grown." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The surest way to corrupt a youth? Teach him to value thinking alike more than thinking differently." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Innermost suffering makes the mind noble. Only that deepest, slow and extended pain that burns inside of us as firewood forces us to go down into our depths… I doubt that such a pain could ever make us feel better, but I know that it makes us deeper beings. It makes us ask more rigorous and deeper questions to ourselves… Trust in life has disappeared. Life itself has become a problem." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"This 'bringer of glad tidings' died as he lived, as he taught―not to 'redeem mankind' but to demonstrate how one ought to live. What he bequeathed to mankind is his practice: his bearing before the judges, before the guards, before the accusers and every kind of calumny and mockery―his bearing on the Cross. He does not defend his rights, he takes no steps to avert the worst that can happen to him―more, he provokes it . . . And he entreats, he suffers, he loves with those, in those who are doing evil to him. His words to the thief on the cross next to him contain the whole Evangel. ‘That was verily a divine man, a child of God'―says the thief. ‘If thou feelest this'―answers the redeemer―‘thou art in Paradise, thou art a child of God.' Not to defend oneself, not to grow angry, not to make responsible… But not to resist even the evil man to love him." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"إن الوعي الذي يصدر الأحكام هو وعي منافق: يجب أن يكون الاعتراف بتناهيه قائما، وكذلك مساواته مع الوعي المحكوم عليه، وذلك لكي تكون "" مغفرة الذنوب "" ممكنة بوصفها معرفة المرء بذاته التي تصالح" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Every philosophy which believes that the problem of existence is touched on, not to say solved, by a political event is a joke- and pseudo-philosophy. Many states have been founded since the world began; that is an old story. How should a political innovation suffice to turn men once and for all into contented inhabitants of the earth? [...]Here, however, we are experiencing the consequences of the doctrine, lately preached from all the rooftops, that the state is the highest goal of mankind and that a man has no higher duty than to serve the state: in which doctrine I recognize a relapse not into paganism but into stupidity. It may be that a man who sees his highest duty in serving the state really knows no higher duties; but there are men and duties existing beyond this—and one of the duties that seems, at least to me, to be higher than serving the state demands that one destroy stupidity in every form, and therefore in this form too." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Herdsmen, I say, but they call themselves the good and just. Herdsmen, I say, but they call themselves the believers in the orthodox belief. Behold the good and just! Whom do they hate most? Him who breaketh up their tables of values, the breaker, the lawbreaker:--he, however, is the creator. Behold the believers of all beliefs! Whom do they hate most? Him who breaketh up their tables of values, the breaker, the law-breaker--he, however, is the creator. Companions, the creator seeketh, not corpses--and not herds or believers either. Fellow-creators the creator seeketh--those who grave new values on new tables. Companions, the creator seeketh, and fellow-reapers: for everything is ripe for the harvest with him. But he lacketh the hundred sickles: so he plucketh the ears of corn and is vexed. Companions, the creator seeketh, and such as know how to whet their sickles. Destroyers, will they be called, and despisers of good and evil. But they are the reapers and rejoicers. Fellow-creators, Zarathustra seeketh; fellow-reapers and fellow-rejoicers, Zarathustra seeketh: what hath he to do with herds and herdsmen and corpses! And thou, my first companion, rest in peace! Well have I buried thee in thy hollow tree; well have I hid thee from the wolves. But I part from thee; the time hath arrived. 'Twixt rosy dawn and rosy dawn there came unto me a new truth. I am not to be a herdsman, I am not to be a grave-digger. Not any more will I discourse unto the people; for the last time have I spoken unto the dead. With the creators, the reapers, and the rejoicers will I associate: the rainbow will I show them, and all the stairs to the Superman. To the lone-dwellers will I sing my song, and to the twain-dwellers; and unto him who hath still ears for the unheard, will I make the heart heavy with my happiness. I make for my goal, I follow my course; over the loitering and tardy will I leap. Thus let my on-going be their down-going!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"إن هنا مايكفى من الرعود لكى تتعلم حتى القبور الإصغاء !" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The history of moral feelings is the history of an error, an error called 'responsibility', which in turn rests on an error called 'freedom of the will'." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Enjoyment belongs to those who know things halfway." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Где много говорят о людях, гл совсем не говорят о человеке" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"How malicious philosophers can be! I know of nothing more venomous than the joke Epicurus permitted himself against Plato and the Platonists; he called them Dionysiokolakes. That means literally—and this is the foreground meaning—'flatterers of Dionysius,' in other words, tyrant's baggage and lickspittles; but in addition to this he also wants to say, 'they are all actors, there is nothing genuine about them' (for Dionysokolax was a popular name for an actor).8 And the latter is really the malice that Epicurus aimed at Plato: he was peeved by the grandiose manner, the mise en scène9 at which Plato and his disciples were so expert—at which Epicurus was not an expert—he, that old schoolmaster from Samos, who sat, hidden away, in his little garden at Athens and wrote three hundred books—who knows? perhaps from rage and ambition against Plato? It took a hundred years until Greece found out who this garden god, Epicurus, had been.—Did they find out?— 8" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Language belongs in its origin to the age of the most rudimentary form of psychology: we find ourselves in the midst of a rude fetishism when we call to mind the basic presuppositions of the metaphysics of language – which is to say, of reason." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Punishment.—A strange thing, our punishment! It does not cleanse the criminal, it is no atonement; on the contrary, it pollutes worse than the crime does. The" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"—Did he even grasp this himself, this cleverest of all self-outwitters? Did he tell himself this in the end, in the wisdom of his courage in the face of death? . . . Socrates wanted to die: not Athens, but he gave himself the poison cup, he forced Athens to give him the poison cup . . . 'Socrates is no doctor,' he said to himself softly, 'death is the only doctor here . . . Socrates himself has just been sick for a long time." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Courageous, untroubled, mocking, violent—thus does Wisdom want us: she is a woman and always loves only a warrior." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The man looked up distrustfully. ""If you speak the truth,"" said he, ""I lose nothing when I lose my life. I am not much more than an animal which has been taught to dance by blows and a few scraps of food." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Insight into the origin of a work concerns the physiologists and vivisectionists of the spirit; never the aesthetic man, the artist!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"For that I must descend into the depths, as you do in the evening when you go below the sea and bring light also to the underworld, you superabundant star!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Battle not with monsterslest you become a monsterand if you gaze into the abyssthe abyss gazes into you" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What matters is not eternal life, but eternal vivacity." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"گفتم ای زن، حقیقتِ کوچکت را به من ده!و پیرزنک چنین گفت: به سراغ زنان می روی؟ تازیانه را فراموش مکن!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There will be but few people, who, when at a loss for topics of conversation, will not reveal the more secret affairs of their friends." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"HOW COULD anything originate out of its opposite? For example, truth out of error?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To one man, solitude is the escape of an invalid; for another, it is escape from the invalids." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Întreaga psihologie de până acum a rămas împotmolită în prejudecăţi şi temeri de ordin moral: ea nu s-a încumetat să pătrundă în adâncuri. A o concepe, precum o fac eu, în chip de morfologie şi genetică a voinţei de putere, -iată o idee care nu i-a trecut nimănui prin cap, în măsura în care ne este îngăduit să ghicim din toate cele câte s-au scris până acum şi a ceea ce a fost trecut sub tăcere. Puterea prejudecăţilor morale a impregnat profund sfera spiritualităţii pure, în aparenţă sfera cea mai rece şi mai lipsită de idei preconcepute - exercitând bineînţeles o acţiune vătămătoare, paralizantă, orbitoare, deformantă. O fizio-psihologie autentică întâmpină rezistenţe inconştiente în ini-ma cercetătorului, ea are de luptat cu „inima': chiar şi o teorie despre interdependenta instinctelor „bune' şi „rele' pare un rafinament de imoralitate care provoacă suferinţa şi dezgustul unei conştiinţe încă viguroase şi îndrăzneţe -, şi, cu atât mai mult, o teorie despre derivarea tuturor instinctelor bune din cele rele. Însă, presupunând că s-ar găsi cineva care să ia afectele de ură, invidie, cupiditate, patima puterii drept afecte esenţiale ale vieţii, drept lucruri care trebuie să facă parte, în esenţă şi în principiu, din economia generală a vieţii, dacă vrem ca viaţa să fie intensificată -, acest om ar suferi din pricina unei asemenea orientări a judecăţilor sale ca de un rău de mare. şi aceasta nu este încă nici pe departe cea mai penibilă şi mai ciudată ipoteză din acest imens şi aproape nedesţelenit domeniu de cunoştinţe primejdioase: iar cel care vrea va găsi o sută de temeiuri pentru a se tine la distantă de ea - de va fi în stare! Iar dacă totuşi nava vi s-a abătut prin aceste meleaguri, ei bine, curaj! strângeţi zdravăn din dinţi! deschideţi-vă ochii! apucaţi timona cu nădejde! - vom depăşi de-a dreptul morala, cu riscul de a strivi, de a zdrobi poate restul propriei noastre moralităţi, cutezând să pornim pe acest drum - dar ce contăm noi! Niciodată navigatorilor şi aventurierilor temerari nu li s-a mai înfăţişat vreo lume de cunoştinţe, mai profundă: iar psihologului care consimte la o asemenea „jertfă' - acesta nu este sacrifizio dell'inteletto, dimpotrivă! - i se va îngădui cel puţin să pretindă în schimb ca psihologia să fie recunoscută iarăşi ca regină a ştiinţelor, pe care celelalte ştiinţe au menirea s-o slujească şi s-o pregătească. Căci de acum îna¬inte psihologia este din nou calea ce duce spre problemele fundamentale." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"الإنسان الأخير أطول البشر عمراً" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Socrate considérait que c'est un mal qui n'est pas loin de la folie, de s'imaginer que l'on possède une vertu, alors qu'on ne la possède pas. Certes, une pareille illusion est plus dangereuse que l'illusion contraire qui consiste à croire que l'on souffre d'un défaut, d'un vice.Deuxième Considération intempestive, ch. 6" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"They cast injustice and filth at the solitary one: but, my brother, if you would be a star, you must shine for them none the less on that account!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The essential element in the black art of obscurantism is not that it wants to darken individual understanding, but that it wants to blacken our picture of the world, and darken our idea of existence." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Awake and listen, you that are lonely! From the future come winds with stealthy wings, and to subtle ears good tidings are proclaimed." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"For, believe me, the secret of the greatest fruitfulness and the greatest enjoyment of existence is: to live dangerously!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Not necessity, not desire - no, the love of power is the demon of men. Let them have everything - health, food, a place to live, entertainment - they are and remain unhappy and low-spirited: for the demon waits and waits and will be satisfied." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Everything straight lieth,' murmured the dwarf, contemptuously. 'All truth is crooked; time itself is a circle." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The main concern of all great religions has been to fight a certain weariness and heaviness grown to epidemic proportions." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I love those that know not how to live except as down-goers, for they are the over-goers." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"...nothing stands so much in the way of the production and propagation of the great philosopher by nature as does the bad philosopher who works for the state." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The tremendous historical need of our unsatisfied modern culture, the assembling around one of countless other cultures, the consuming desire for knowledge--what does all this point to, if not to the loss of myth, the loss of the mythical home, the mythical maternal womb?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"No quedar adherido a ninguna persona: aunque sea la más amada, - toda persona es una cárcel, y también un rincón." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Why does man not see things? He is himself standing in the way: he conceals things." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In order that the concept of substance could originate--which is indispensable for logic although in the strictest sense nothing real corresponds to it--it was likewise necessary that for a long time one did not see or perceive the changes in things. The beings that did not see so precisely had an advantage over those who saw everything ""in flux."" At bottom, every high degree of caution in making inferences and every skeptical tendency constitute a great danger for life. No living beings would have survived if the opposite tendency--to affirm rather than suspend judgment, to err and make up things rather than wait, to assent rather than negate, to pass judgment rather than be just-- had not been bred to the point where it became extraordinarily strong." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"SUPPOSING that Truth is a woman—what then? Is there not ground for suspecting that all philosophers, in so far as they have been dogmatists, have failed to understand women—that the terrible seriousness and clumsy importunity with which they have usually paid their addresses to Truth, have been unskilled and unseemly methods for winning a woman?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Only the boldest Utopians would dream of the economy of kindness." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"دوستان، مرا می گویید که بر سر ذوق و پسند جای جدال نیست؟ اما زندگی سراسر جدالی‌ست بر سر ذوق و پسند!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Having a talent is not enough; one also requires your permission for it--right, my friends?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Зле се отплаща човек на своя учител, ако цял живот остане само ученик." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"You lonely of today, you withdrawing ones, one day you shall be a people: from you that have chosen yourselves a chosen people shall grow and from them the overman." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There are men who desire power simply for the sake of the happiness it will bring; these belong chiefly to political parties. Other men have the same yearning, even when power means visible disadvantages, the sacrifice of their happiness, and well-being; they are the ambitious. Other men, again, are only like dogs in a manger, and will have power only to prevent its falling into the hands of others on whom they would then be dependent." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"إمتيازى هو الحساسية القصوى التى لدىّ تجاه كل أمراض الغرائز السليمة" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The pure soul is a pure lie. So long as the priest, that professional denier, calumniator and poisoner of life, is accepted as a higher variety of man, there can be no answer to the question, What is truth? Truth has already been stood on its head when the obvious attorney of mere emptiness is mistaken for its representative." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The seventh way to be noble: always being disguised, for the higher the type, the more a man requires an incognito. If God existed, he would be obliged to show himself to the world only as a man." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To give style to one's character—that is a grand and rare art! He who surveys all that his nature presents in its strength and in its weakness, and then fashions it into an ingenious plan, until everything appears artistic and rational, and even the weaknesses enchant the eye..exercises that admirable art." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"O Mensch! Gib acht!Was spricht, die tiefe Mitternacht?""Ich schlief, ich schlief -,Aus tiefem Traum bin ich erwacht: -Die Welt ist tief,Und tiefer als der Tag gedacht.Tief ist ihr Weh -,Lust - tiefer noch als Herzeleid:Weh spricht: Vergeh! Doch alle Lust will Ewigkeit -,- Will tiefe, tiefe Ewigkeit!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The same causes which tend to promote the belittling of men, also force the stronger and rarer individuals upwards to greatness." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"ليس هناك شيء ينبغي لنا الاحتراس منه أكثر من نمو هذا العشب الطفيلي الذي يسمى التباهي والذي يفسد علينا أفضل محاصيلنا، لأن التباهي يوجد في المودة، في علامات الاحترام، في الألفة العطوفة، في المداعبة، في النصيحة الودية، في الاعتراف بالخطأ، في الشفقة على الغير، وكل هذه الأشياء الجميلة تثير الاشمئزاز حين يخالطها هذا العشب. المتباهي، أي ذلك الذي يريد لنفسه اهمية اكبر مما لها او مما يعترف به الناس لها، يجري حسابا خاطئا دائما. يصادف نجاحا سريعا دون شك لكون الناس الذين يتباهى أمامهم يمنحونه ذاك القدر من الاحترام الذي يطالب به تماما، بدافع الجبن أو بدفع اللامبالاة، لكنهم ينتقمون منه بذكاء إذ يطرحون معادل القيمة التي يطالب بها بإفراط من القيمة التي منحوها له حتى ذلك الحين….لأنه ليست هناك حماقة، في معاشرة الناس، أكبر من اكتساب سمعة التباهي" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The craft, trade, agriculture, science, a large part of the art - all this can only stand on a broad base , on a consolidated, strong and healthy mediocrity. Served in their services and the science of their work - and even the arts. We cannot wish for better: it belongs to such an average sort of person - it is under displace exceptions - it has nothing aristocratic about something and still les in their anarchic instincts - The power of the center is then held upright by the trade, especially the money market: the instinct of great financiers goes against all extremes, - the Jews are the reason for the time being conserve power in our so insecure and threatened Europe." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Imagine a being like nature, wasteful beyond measure, indifferent beyond measure, without mercy and justice, fertile and desolate and uncertain at the same time; imagine indifference itself as a power, how could you live according to this indifference? Living, is that not precisely wanting to be different? And supposing your imperative ‘live according to nature' meant at bottom as much as ‘live according to life', how could you not do that? Why make a principle of what you yourselves are and must be?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In all willing it is absolutely a question of commanding and obeying, on the basis, as already said, of a social structure composed of many 'souls,' on which account a philosopher should claim the right to include willing-as-such within the sphere of morals—regarded as the doctrine of the relations of supremacy under which the phenomenon of 'life' manifests itself." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"He who destroys the illusions in himself and others is punished by nature, the cruelest tyrant." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A real man wants two things: danger and play. Therefore he wants woman as the most dangerous plaything. Man shall be educated for war, and woman for the recreation of the warrior: all else is folly." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Modern pessimism is an expression of the uselessness of the modern world — not of the world and of existence." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I love the great despisers. Man, however, is something that must be overcome." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Basic insight regarding the nature of decadence: it's supposed causes are its consequences." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Do you believe then that the sciences would ever have arisen and become great if there had not beforehand been magicians, alchemists, astrologers and wizards, who thirsted and hungered after abscondite and forbidden powers?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Even now man is more of an ape than any of the apes." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"He who does not find greatness in God finds it nowhere. He must either deny it or create it." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Was it not because I loved man all-too-much? Now I love God. man I love not. Man is for me too imperfect a thing. Love of man would kill me." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Everyone wants the same; everyone is thesame; he who has other sentiments goes voluntarily into the madhouse." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"They all want to get to the throne: this is their madness—as if happiness were sitting on the throne! Often it is mud that sits on the throne—and often the throne also sits on mud." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I undertook something that not everyone may undertake: I descended into the depths, I bored into the foundations" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"ترنون بأعينكم إلى الفوق وأنتم تطلبون العُلى, وأنظر إلى الأسفل لأننى فى الأعالى" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"أن يعلن المرء أنه مخطئ أنبل من أن يصر على أنه مصيب، خاصة عندما يكون مصيباً." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Hay que apartar de nosotros el mal gusto de querer coincidir con muchos. «Bueno» no es ya bueno cuando el veneno toma esa palabra en su boca. ¡Y cómo podría existir un «bien común»! La expresión se contradice así misma: lo que puede ser común tiene siempre poco valor. En última instancia, las cosas tienen que ser tal como son y tal como han sido siempre: las grandes cosas están reservadas a los grandes, los abismos, a los profundos, las delicadezas y estremecimientos, a los sutiles, y, en general, y dicho brevemente, todo lo raro, a los raros. —" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To me, the masses seem to be worth a glance only in three respects: first as blurred copies of great men, presented on bad paper with worn out printing plates, then as the resistance against the great men, and finally as working implements of the great. For the rest, let the devil and statistics carry them off!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Moral contempt is a far greater indignity and insult than any kind of crime." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Too close. If we live in too close proximity to a person, it is as if we kept touching a good etching with our bare fingers; one day we have poor, dirty paper in our hands and nothing more. a human being's soul is likewise worn down by continual touching; at least it finally appears that way to us - we never see its original design and beauty again." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Out of love alone shall my despising and my warning bird fly up, not out of swamp. (...) Where one can no longer love, there one should pass by." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To confirm the great principle with which civilization begins: any custom is better than no custom." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Have I been understood?―Dionysus against the crucified one..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"today we read of Don Quixote with a bitter taste in the mouth, it isalmost an ordeal, which would make us seem very strange and incomprehensibleto the author and his contemporaries, – they read it with a clearconscience as the funniest of books, it made them nearly laugh themselvesto death).To see suffering does you good, to make suffer, better still – thatOn the Genealogy of Morality4248 See below, Supplementary material, pp. 153–4.49 See below, Supplementary material, pp. 137–9, pp. 140–1, pp. 143–4.50 Don Quixote, Book II, chs 31–7.is a hard proposition, but an ancient, powerful, human-all-too-humanproposition to which, by the way, even the apes might subscribe: as peoplesay, in thinking up bizarre cruelties they anticipate and, as it were, act outa ‘demonstration' of what man will do. No cruelty, no feast: that is whatthe oldest and longest period in human history teaches us – and punishment,too, has such very strong festive aspects! –" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Everyone who enjoys supposes that the tree was concerned with the fruit, but it was really concerned with the seed.―In this lies the difference between all those who create and those who enjoy." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Let us imagine a coming generation with such intrepidity of vision, with such a heroic penchant for the tremendous; let us imagine the bold stride of these dragon-slayers, the proud audacity with which they turn their back on all the weakling's doctrines of optimism in order to 'live resolutely' in wholeness and fullness:  for the tragic man of such a culture, in view of his self-education for seriousness and terror, to desire a new art, the , to desire tragedy as his own proper Helen, and to exclaim with Faust:""Would it not be necessary?""--No, thrice no! O you young romantics: it would  be necessary! But it is highly probably that it will  that way, that  end that way--namely, ""comforted,"" as it is written, in spite of all self-education for seriousness and terror, ""comforted metaphysically""--in sum, as romantics end, as ." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"People who comprehend a thing to its very depths rarely stay faithful to it forever. For they have brought its depths into the light of day: and in the depths there is always much that is unpleasant to see." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Masters of the first rank are recognized by the fact that in matters great and small they know how to find an end perfectly, be it the end of a melody or a thought." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Danger in modesty ― To adapt ourselves too early to the tasks, societies, everyday life and everyday work, in which chance has placed us, at a time when neither our strength nor our goal has yet entered our consciousness with the force of law; the all-too-early certainty of consciousness, comfortableness, sociability thus achieved, this premature resignation that insinuates itself into our feelings as a release from inner and outer unrest, pampers and holds one back in the most dangerous fashion. To learn to feel respect after the fashion of 'those like us,' as if we ourselves had no measure in us and no right to determine values; the effort to evaluate as others do, against the inner voice of our taste, which is also a form of conscience, becomes a terrible, subtle constraint: if there is not finally an explosion, with a sudden bursting asunder of all the bonds of love and morality, then such a spirit becomes withered, petty, effeminate, and factual.The opposite is bad enough, but better nonetheless: to suffer from one's environment, from its praise as well as from its blame, wounded by it and festering inwardly without betraying the fact; to defend oneself with involuntary mistrust against its love, to learn silence, perhaps concealing it behind speech, to create for oneself nooks and undiscoverable solitudes for moments of relief, of tears, of sublime consolation ― until one is finally strong enough to say, 'what do I have to do with you?' and go one's own way." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Wherever the religious neurosis has appeared on the earth so far, we find it connected with three dangerous prescriptions as to regimen: solitude, fasting, and sexual abstinence" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"رَستنِ انسان از کین پلی ست به برترین امید های من و رنگین کمانی از پس طوفان های دراز.--نیچه، چنین گفت زرتشت، درباره ی رتیلان" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Do not let yourself be deceived: great spirits are sceptical. Zarathustra is a sceptic. The power, the freedom that comes from the strength and super-strength of spirit, proves itself through scepticism." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We like to be out in nature so much because it has no opinion on us." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"You always said that no one would strive for education if they knew how unbelievably small the number of truly educated people actually was, or ever could be. But that it was impossible to achieve even this small quota of truly educated people unless a great mass of people were tricked, seduced, into going against their nature and pursuing an education. As a result, we must never publicly betray the ridiculous disproportion between the number of truly educated people and the size of our monstrously overgrown educational system. That is the real secret of education, you said: Countless people fight for it, and think they are fighting for themselves, but at bottom it is only to make education possible for a very few." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"hati terikat, jiwa bebas.--jika kau mengikat dan merantai hatimu kuatkuat, kau dapat memberikan banyak kebebasan pada jiwamu: itulah yang ku katakan pada suatu hari. akan tetapi orangorang tidak percaya, kecuali saat mereka benarbenar menemukannya" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The deepest and most sublime hatred is a hatred which creates ideals and transforms values—something whose like has never been seen on earth" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Aren't we straying as though through an infinite nothing? Isn't empty space breathing at us?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"But why do you write?— A: I am not one of those who think with an inky pen in their hand, much less one of those who in front of an open inkwell abandon themselves to their passions while they sit in a chair and stare at the paper. I am annoyed by and ashamed of my writing; writing is for me a pressing and embarrassing need, and to speak of it even in a parable disgusts me. B: But why, then, do you write? —A: Well, my friend, to be quite frank: so far, I have not discovered any other way of getting rid of my thoughts. —B: And why do you want to get rid of them? —A: Why I want to? Do I want to? I must. —B: Enough! Enough! 94" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Behind your thoughts and feelings, my brother, there is a mighty lord, an unknown sage- it is called Self; it dwells in your body, it is your body." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"This however is my teaching: he who wishes one day to fly, must first learn standing and walking and running and climbing and dancing:- one does not fly into flying!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In irgendeinem abgelegenen Winkel des in zahllosen Sonnensystemen flimmernd ausgegossenen Weltalls, gab es einmal ein Gestirn, auf dem kluge Tiere das Erkennen erfanden. Es war die hochmütigste und verlogenste Minute der 'Weltgeschichte': aber doch nur eine Minute. Nach wenigen Atemzügen der Natur erstarrte das Gestirn, und die klugen Tiere mussten sterben. - So könnte jemand eine Fabel erfinden und würde doch nicht genügend illustriert haben, wie kläglich, wie schattenhaft und flüchtig, wie zwecklos und beliebig sich der menschliche Intellekt innerhalb der Natur ausnimmt; es gab Ewigkeiten, in denen er nicht war; wenn es wieder mit ihm vorbei ist, wird sich nichts begeben haben. Denn es gibt für jenen Intellekt keine weitere Mission, die über das Menschenleben hinausführte. Sondern Menschlich ist er, und nur sein Besitzer und Erzeuger nimmt ihn so pathetisch, als ob die Angeln der Welt sich in ihm drehten. Könnten wie uns aber mit der Mücke verständigen, so würden wir vernehmen, dass auch sie mit diesem Pathos durch die Luft schwimmt und in sich das fliegende Zentrum dieser Welt fühlt." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What does not kill you will make you stronger." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"That passion is better than stoicism or hypocrisy; that straightforwardness, even in evil, is better than losing oneself in trying to observe traditional morality; that the free man is just as able to be good as evil, but that the unemancipated man is a disgrace to nature, and has no share in heavenly or earthly bliss" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To 'want' something, to 'strive' after something to have an 'aim' or a 'wish' in my mind — I know none of this from experience. Even at this moment I look out upon my future — a distant future! as upon a calm sea: no sigh of longing makes a ripple on its surface. I have not the slightest wish that anything should be otherwise than it is: I do not want myself different than I am. But in this matter I have always been the same. I have never had a desire." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Of all the evil I deem you capable. Therefore I want the good from you. Verily I have often laughed at weaklings who thought themselves good because they had no claws." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Everything goes, everything comes back; eternally rolls the wheel of Being. Everything dies, everything blooms again; eternally runs the year of Being. Everything breaks, everything is joined anew; eternally is built the same house of Being. Everything separates, everything greets itself again; eternally true to itself remains the ring of Being." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Modern Socialism wants to create a secular version of Jesuitism: everybody a perfect instrument. But the purpose remains to be discovered. What is it all for!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One can only be silent and sit peacefully when one hath arrow and bow; otherwise one prateth and quarrelleth. Let your peace be a victory!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Why might not the world WHICH CONCERNS US—be a fiction?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Our ancestors pay the price for who we are" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The Church combats the passions with excision in every sense of the word: its practice, its ‘cure' is castration. It never asks: ‘How can one spiritualize, beautify, deify a desire?' – it has at all times laid the emphasis of its discipline on extirpation (of sensuality, of pride, of lust for power, of avarice, of revengefulness). – But to attack the passions at their roots means to attack life at its roots: the practice of the Church is hostile to life…" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Only by forgetting this primitive world of metaphor can one live with any repose, security, and consistency: only by means of the petrification and coagulation of a mass of images which originally streamed from the primal faculty of human imagination like a fiery liquid, only in the invincible faith that this sun, this window, this table is a truth in itself, in short, only by forgetting that he himself is an artistically creating subject, does man live with any repose, security, and consistency. If but for an instant he could escape from the prison walls of this faith, his ""self consciousness"" would be immediately destroyed." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The Four Virtues―Honest towards ourselves and whoever else is a friend to us: brave towards the enemy; magnanimous towards the defeated; polite―always: such do the four cardinal virtues wish us to be." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Our duties - are the rights of others over us." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"That poem was not by me. It is among the things which quite overpower me; I have never been able to read it without tears coming to my eyes; it sounds like a voice for which I have been waiting and waiting since childhood. The poem is by my friend Lou... She is as shrewd as an eagle and brave as a lion, and yet still a very girlish child, who perhaps will not live long." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"He who would learn to fly one day must first learn to stand and walk and run and climb and dance; one cannot fly into flying." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The morality of breeding, and the morality of taming, are, in the means they use, entirely worthy of each other: we may proclaim it as a supreme principle that to make men moral one must have the unconditional resolve to act immorally. This is the great, the uncanny problem which I have been pursuing the longest: the psychology of the ""improvers"" of mankind. A small, and at bottom modest, fact — that of the so-called pia fraus [holy lie] — offered me the first insight into this problem: the pia fraus, the heirloom of all philosophers and priests who ""improved"" mankind. Neither Manu nor Plato nor Confucius nor the Jewish and Christian teachers have ever doubted their right to lie. They have not doubted that they had very different rights too. Expressed in a formula, one might say: all the means by which one has so far attempted to make mankind moral were through and through immoral." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Can an ass be tragic? To perish under a burden one can neither bear nor throw off? The case of the philosopher." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Men were considered ""free"" only so that they might be considered guilty - could be judged and punished: consequently, every act had to be considered as lying within the consciousness." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I love to lose myself for a while." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I demand from a book harmony as unity and moderation; that determines the choice of words, the type and number of metaphors, the development and conclusion" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Many die too late, and some die too early. Yet strange soundeth the precept: ""Die at the right time!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The tragic artist is not a pessimist — it is precisely he who affirms all that is questionable and terrible in existence, he is Dionysian." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"„Човек трябва да носи хаос в душата си, за да може да роди танцуваща звезда.' — от „Тъй рече Заратустра" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"و باز هستند کسانی که خوش دارند چهره‌ای به خود بگیرند و برآنند که فضیلت نوعی چهره گرفتن است. زانوهاشان همیشه در پیشگاه فضیلت برزمین است و دستان‌شان در ستایش آن بر آسمان، اما دلشان از آن بی خبر" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When your heart flows broad and full like a river, a blessing and a danger to those living near: there is the origin of your virtue.When you are above praise and blame, and your will wants to command all things, like a lover's will: there is the origin of your virtue.When you despise the agreeable and the soft bed and cannot bed yourself far enough from the soft: there is the origin of your virtue.When you will with a single will and you call this cessation of all need ""necessity"": there is the origin of your virtue.Verily, a new good and evil is she. Verily, a new deep murmur and the voice of a new well!Power is she, this new virtue; a dominant thought is she, and around her a wise soul: a golden sun, and around it the serpent of knowledge." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"هرآن که خود را ژرف می داند ،به شفاف بودن خویش می کوشد ، هر آنکه می خواهد بر مردم ژرف بنماید،می کوشد خود را تیره و مبهم سازد .زیرا جماعت ،ژرفای هرآنچه را نتواند ببیند،ژرف می پندارد:از اینروست که مردمان هراسانند وبرای فرورفتن به زیر آب ناخرسند!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The race is corrupted—not by its vices, but by its ignorance: it is corrupted because it has not recognised exhaustion as exhaustion: physiological misunderstandings are the cause of all evil. Virtue is our greatest misunderstanding." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"За да живееш в самота, трябва да си животно..., или бог" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The obscurities in my soul terrify galaxies." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"S-ar putea să existe chiar fanatici puritani ai conştiinţei care să dorească a muri culcaţi mai degrabă pe un Nimic cert decât pe un Ceva nesigur. Dar acesta e nihilism, însemnul unui suflet deznădăjduit şi dezgustat de moarte, oricât de curajoase ar părea atitudinile unei astfel de virtuţi." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"ما هو عظيم فى الإنسان إنما كونه جسراً لا هدفاً" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"—'I did that,' says my memory. —'I could not have done that,' says my pride, and remains inexorable. Eventually the memory yields." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Alcoholic drinks do not agree with me. A single glass of wine or beer a day is amply sufficient to turn life into a valley of tears for me." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I do not refute ideals, I just out on gloves when I deal with them..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There is a certain climax in life, at which, notwithstanding all our freedom, and however much we may have denied all directing reason and goodness in the beautiful chaos of existence, we are once more in great danger of intellectual bondage, and have to face our hardest test. For now the thought of a personal Providence first presents itself before us with its most persuasive force, and has the best of advocates, apparentness, in its favor, now when it is obvious that all and everything that happens to us always turns out for the best. (...) We want to leave the Gods alone and (...) wish to content ourselves with the assumption that our own practical and theoretical skillfulness in explaining and suitably arranging events has now reached its highest point. (...) We do not want either to think too highly of this dexterity of our wisdom, when the wonderful harmony which results from playing on our instrument sometimes surprises us too much: a harmony which sounds too well for us to dare to ascribe it to ourselves. In fact, now and then there is one who plays with us beloved Chance: he leads our hand occasionally, and even the all wisest Providence could not devise any finer music than that of which our foolish hand is then capable." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Thus says the fool: ""Association with men spoils the character, especially when one has none." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When he judged himself, that was his supreme moment." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Behold, I teach you the Overman! He is that lightning, he is that madness!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"إن الفلسفة كما كنت دوماً أفهمها وأعيشها، هى الحياة طوعاً فى الجليد وفوق الجبال الشاهقة، البحث عن كل ماهو غريب وإشكالي في الوجود، وعن كل ماظل إلى حد الآن منبوذاً من قبل الإخلاق." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"خواهان فضیلت ستون باش که هرچه بالاتر می رود زیباتر می شود و ظریف تر، اما از درون سخت تر و استوارتر" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"With thunder and heavenly fireworks must one speak to indolent and somnolent senses. But beauty's voice speaketh gently: it appealeth only to the most awakened souls" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The concept of 'God' invented as a counter-concept of life... The concept of the 'beyond', the 'true world' invented in order to devaluate the only world there is..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Without the errors which are active in every psychical pleasure and displeasrue a humanity would never have come into existence--whose fundamental feeling is and remains that man is the free being in a world of unfreedom, the external miracle worker whether he does good or ill, the astonishing exception, the superbeast and almost-god, the meaning of creation which cannot be thought away, the solution of the cosmic riddle, the mighty ruler over nature and the despiser of it, the creature which calls its history world history!--Vanitas vanitatum homo." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In revenge and in love woman is more barbarous than man." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Agora compreendo o que se procurava primeiro que tudo em nossos dias, quando se procurava mestres de virtude. O que se procurava era um bom sono, e para isso virtudes coroadas de dormideiras. Para todos estes sábios catedráticos, tão ponderados, a sabedoria era dormir sem sonhar: não conheciam melhor sentido da vida. [...] Bem-aventurados tais dormentes porque não tardarão a dormir de todo." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The philosopher is lacking who interprets the deed and does not merely transpose it." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One might be tempted to extol as an advance over Sophocles the radical tendency of Euripides to produce a proper relation between art and the public. But ""public,"" after all, is a mere word. In no sense is it a homogeneous and constant quantity. Why should the artist be bound to accommodate himself to a power whose strength lies solely in numbers? And if, by virtue of his endowments and aspirations, he should feel himself superior to every one of these spectators, how could he feel greater respect for the collective expression of all these subordinate capacities than for the relatively highest-endowed individual spectator?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"when an exceptional person treats a mediocre one more delicately than he treats himself and his equals, this is not just courtesy of the heart—it is his duty" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Those who, from the start, are the unfortunate, the downtrodden, the broken – these are the ones, the weakest, who most undermine life amongst men, who introduce the deadliest poison and scepticism into our trust in life, in man, in ourselves. Where can we escape the surreptitious glance imparting a deep sadness, the backward glance of the born misfit revealing how such a man communes with himself, – that glance which is a sigh. ‘If only I were some other person!' is what this glance sighs: ‘but there's no hope of that. I am who I am: how could I get away from myself ? And oh – I'm fed up with myself!' . . . In such a soil of self-contempt, such a veritable swamp, every kind of weed and poisonous plant grows, all of them so small, hidden, dissembling and sugary. Here, the worms of revenge and rancour teem all round; here, the air stinks of things unrevealed and unconfessed; here, the web of the most wicked conspiracy is continually being spun, – the conspiracy of those who suffer against those who are successful and victorious, here, the sight of the victorious man is hated. And what mendacity to avoid admitting this hatred as hatred! What expenditure of big words and gestures, what an art of ‘righteous' slander! These failures: what noble eloquence flows from their lips! How much sugared, slimy, humble humility swims in their eyes! What do they really want? At any rate, to represent justice, love, wisdom, superiority, that is the ambition of these who are ‘the lowest', these sick people! And how skilful such an ambition makes them! In particular, we have to admire the counterfeiter's skill with which the stamp of virtue, the ding-a-ling golden ring of virtue is now imitated. They have taken out a lease on virtue to keep it just for themselves, these weak and incurably sick people, there is no doubt about it: ‘Only we are good and just' is what they say, ‘only we are the homines bonæ voluntatis'. They promenade in our midst like living reproaches, like warnings to us, – as though health, success, strength, pride and the feeling of power were in themselves depravities for which penance, bitter penance will one day be exacted: oh, how ready they themselves are, in the last resort, to make others penitent, how they thirst to be hangmen! Amongst them we find plenty of vengeance-seekers disguised as judges, with the word justice continually in their mouth like poisonous spittle, pursing their lips and always at the ready to spit at anybody who does not look discontented and who cheerfully goes his own way. Among their number there is no lack of that most disgusting type of dandy, the lying freaks who want to impersonate ‘beautiful souls' and put their wrecked sensuality on the market, swaddled in verses and other nappies, as ‘purity of the heart': the type of moral onanists and ‘self-gratifiers.' The will of the sick to appear superior in any way, their instinct for secret paths, which lead to tyranny over the healthy, – where can it not be found, this will to power of precisely the weakest!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I call myself the last philosopher, because I am the last man. No one speaks with me but myself, and my voice comes to me like the voice of a dying man! Let me associate for but one hour more with you, dear voice, with you, the last trace of the memory of all human happiness. With you I escape loneliness through self-delusion and lie myself into multiplicity and love. For my heart resists the belief that love is dead. It cannot bear the shudder of the loneliest loneliness, and so it forces me to speak as if I were two." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Detesto seguir alguém assim como detesto conduzir.Obedecer? Não! E governar, nunca!Quem não se mete medo não consegue metê-lo a ninguém,E só aquele que o inspira pode comandar.Já detesto guiar-me a mim próprio!Gosto, como os animais das florestas e dos mares,De me perder durante um grande pedaço,Acocorar-me a sonhar num deserto encantador,E forçar-me a regressar de longe aos meus penates,Atrair-me a mim próprio... para mim." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"دل مسپارید به آنان که انگیزه‌ی کیفر دادن در آیشان نیرومند است" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Are the axioms of logic adequate to reality or are they a means and measure for us to create reality, the concept 'reality', for ourselves?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Ancient Pride.-The ancient savour of nobility is lacking in us, because the ancient slave is lacking in our sentiment. A Greek of noble descent found such immense intermediate stages, and such a distance between his elevation and that ultimate baseness, that he could hardly even see the slave plainly: even Plato no longer saw him entirely. It is otherwise with us, accustomed as we are to the doctrine of the equality of men, although not to the equality itself. A being who has not the free disposal of himself and has not got leisure, -that is not regarded by us as anything contemptible ; there is perhaps too much of this kind of slavishness in each of us, in accordance with the conditions of our social order and activity, which are fundamentally different from those of the ancients.-The Greek philosopher went through life with the secret feeling that there were many more slaves than people supposed - that is to say, that everyone was a slave who was not a philosopher. His pride was puffed up when he considered that even the mightiest of the earth were thus to be looked upon as slaves. This pride is also unfamiliar to us, and impossible; the word "" slave"" has not its full force for us even as a metaphor." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Siempre hay algo de locura en el amor; pero también siempre hay algo de razón en la locura." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"in truth man is polluted river. one must be a sea to receive a polluted river without becoming defiled." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The peculiar, withdrawn attitude of the philosopher, world denying, hostile to life, suspicious of the senses, freed from sensuality, which has been maintained down to the most modern times and has become virtually the philosopher's pose par excellence—is above all a result of the emergency conditions under which philosophy arose and survived at all; for the longest time, philosophy would not have been possible at all on earth without ascetic wraps and cloaks, without an ascetic self-misunderstanding. To put it vividly: the ascetic priest provided until the most modern times the repulsive and gloomy caterpillar form in which alone the philosopher could live and creep about." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Every great phenomenon is followed by degeneration, particularly in the realm of art. The model of the great man stimulates vainer natures to imitate him outwardly or to surpass him; in addition, all great talents have the fateful quality of stifling many weaker forces and needs, and seem to devastate the nature around them. The most fortunate instance in the development of art is when several geniuses reciprocally keep each other in check; in this kind of a struggle, weaker and gentle natures are generally also allowed air and light." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"إن الإنسان حقا لأشد الحيوانات فظاعة" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Debemos guardarnos de la confusión en que por contiguity [contiguidad] psicológica, para decirlo igual que los ingleses, muy fácilmente cae un artista: la de creer que él mismo es aquello que él puede representar, concebir, expresar. En realidad ocurre que, si él lo fuera, no lo podría en absoluto representar, concebir, expresar." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"If God wrote the New Testament, he knew surprisingly little Greek." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The happiness of my existence, its unique character perhaps can be found in its fatefulness: to speak in a riddle, as my father I have already died, as my mother I still live and grow old. This double origin taken as it were from the highest and lowest rungs of the ladder of life at once decadent and beginning — this if anything explains that neutrality, that freedom from bias in regard to the general problem of existence which perhaps distinguishes me. My nose is more sensitive than any man that has yet lived as to signs of ascent or decline. In this domain I am a true master — I know both sides for I am both sides." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Not how one soul comes close to another, but how it moves away, shows me their kinship and how much they belong together." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"He who is a firstling is ever sacrificed." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Insanity in individuals is something rare—but in groups, parties, nations, and epochs it is the rule." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Life is a dark chain of events." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Este vorba mai degrabă de credinţa lui Pascal, care se aseamănă teribil cu o sinucidere lentă a raţiunii, - a unei raţiuni îndărătnice, longevive, asemenea unui vierme ce nu poate fi ucis dintr-o dată, cu o singură lovitură. De la bun început, credinţa creştină înseamnă jertfire: jertfirea întregii libertăţi, a întregului orgoliu, a întregii conştiinţe de sine a spiritului; în plus, ea este o subjugare, autobatjocorire şi automutilare. Există şi o doză de cruzime şi de fenicianism religios în această credinţă pretinsă din partea unei conştiinţe macerate, complicate şi prea alintate: ea porneşte de la premisa că supunerea spiritului trebuie să fie indescriptibil de dureroasă, că întregul trecut şi toate deprinderile unui astfel de spirit se opun acestui absurdissimum care îl înfruntă în chip de „credinţă'." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Napoleon in his classical manner at one time declared: ‘I have the right to answer any complaint against me with an eternal 'this is what I am.'' [He] stands aloof from the whole world and accepts conditions from no one." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"With regard to philosophical metaphysics, I always see increasing numbers who have attained to the negative goal, but as yet few who climb a few rungs backwards; one ought to look out, perhaps, over the last steps of the ladder, but not try to stand upon them." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"But one thing is the thought, another thing is the deed, and another thing is the idea of the deed. The wheel of causality doth not roll between them." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We should call every truth false which was not accompanied by at least one laugh." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"But having quills is a waste, even a double luxury when one can choose not to have quills but open hands." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Virtue is knowledge; man sins only from ignorance; he who is virtuous is happy.' In these three basic forms of optimism lies the death of tragedy." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Even the wisest among you is only a conflict and hybrid of plant and ghost." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"!Cuànto nos hemos esmerado para conservar intacta nuestra ignorancia, para lanzarnos en brazos de una libertad, de una despreocupaciòn, de una imprudencia, de un entusiasmo y de una alegrìa de vivir casi inconcebibles, para gozar de la vida!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"ليس الشيطان إذا سوى عطالة الرب فى كل يوم سابع" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"But what if pleasure and pain should be so closely connected', Nietzsche asked in his book The Gay Science, 'that he who wants the greatest possible amount of one must also have the greatest possible amount of the other?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"So bless me then, you tranquil eye that can behold even the greatest happiness without envy!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The earth', he said, 'has a skin; and this skin has diseases. One of these diseases is called, for example, ""humanity""." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"at the age of thirty, when it comes to high culture, one is a beginner, a child." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Remain true to the earth, my brethren, with the power of your virtue! Let your bestowing love and your knowledge be devoted to be the meaning of the earth! . . . Let it not fly away from the earthly and beat against eternal walls with its wings. . . . Lead, like me, the flown-away virtue back to the earth—yes, back to body and life: that it may give to the earth its meaning, a human meaning!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"it is my ambition to say in ten sentences what everyone else says in a book — what everyone else does not say in a book." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"الذى يصعد إلى الجبال الشواهق, يضحك من كل المآسى, مسرحيات كانت أم حقيقة" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"If the morality of ""thou shalt not lie"" is rejected, the ""sense for truth"" will have to legitimize itself before another tribunal:— as a means of the preservation of man, as will to power." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"تو این را خوب می دانی که آن شیطان ترسویی که در توست خوش دارد دست ها را به زانو گره زند و خود را یله کند. همین شیطان ترسو تورا برآن داشت که بگویی: خدایی هست" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A rebel can be a miserable and contemptible man; but there is nothing contemptible in a revolt as such - and to be a rebel in view of contemporary society does not in itself lower the value of a man. There are even cases in which one might have to honour a rebel,because he finds something in our society against which war ought to be waged - he wakens us from our slumber." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"لكل نفس عالمها المختلف, ولكل نفس تكون كل نفس أخرى عالما ما ورائيا" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Man is beast and superbeast; the higher man is inhuman and superhuman: these belong together. With every increase of greatness and height in man, there is also an increase in depth and terribleness: one ought not to desire the one without the other— or rather: the more radically one desires the one, the more radically one achieves precisely the other." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Ja volim onog čija se duša rasipa, koji neće da mu kažu hvala, niti sam kaže hvala: jer on uvek daje i neće da se sačuva." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"...we are concluding falsely that we can deduce the justification, the rational admissibility of displeasure, from the fact that it exists; and from this false deduction Schopenhauer arrives at his fantastic conclusion of so-called intelligible freedom. But displeasure after the deed need not be rational at all: in fact, it certainly is not rational, for it rests on the erroneous assumption that the deed did not have to follow necessarily. Thus, because he thinks he is free (but not because he is free), man feels remorse and the pangs of conscience.Furthermore, this displeasure is a habit that can be given up; many men do not feel it at all, even after the same actions that cause many other men to feel it. Tied to the development of custom and culture, it is a very changeable thing, and present perhaps only within a relatively short period of world history.No one is responsible for his deeds, no one for his nature; to judge is to be unjust. This is also true when the individual judges himself. The tenet is as bright as sunlight, and yet everyone prefers to walk back into the shadow and untruth - for fear of the consequences." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"truths are illusions about which one has forgotten that this is what they are; metaphors which are worn out and without sensuous power; coins which have lost their pictures and now matter only as metal, no longer as coins. We still do not know where the urge for truth comes from; for as yet we have heard only of the obligation imposed by society that it should exist: to be truthful means using the customary metaphors—in moral terms: the obligation to lie according to a fixed convention, to lie herd-like in a style obligatory for all. . . ." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"You go above and beyond them: but the higher you climb, the smaller you appear to the eye of envy. And he who flies is hated most of all." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Я ненавижу людей, не умеющих прощать" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"أنظروا إلى أهل الصلاح والعدل لتعلموا من هو ألد أعدائهم، إنه من يحطم الألواح التي حفروا عليها سننهم، ذلك هو الهدام، ذلك هو المجرم، غير أنه هو المبدع." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What is the sign of every ? That life no longer dwells in the whole. The word becomes sovereign and leaps out of the sentence, the sentence reaches out and obscures the meaning of the page, the page gains life at the expense of the whole—the whole is no longer a whole." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Let us not underestimate the privileges of the mediocre. Life is always harder as one mounts the heights—the cold increases, responsibility increases. A high civilization is a pyramid: it can stand only on a broad base; its primary prerequisite is a strong and soundly consolidated mediocrity. The handicrafts, commerce, agriculture, science, the greater part of art, in brief, the whole range of occupational activities, are compatible only with mediocre ability and aspiration; such callings would be out of place for exceptional men; the instincts which belong to them stand as much opposed to aristocracy as to anarchism. The fact that a man is publicly useful, that he is a wheel, a function, is evidence of a natural predisposition; it is not society, but the only sort of happiness that the majority are capable of, that makes them intelligent machines. To the mediocre mediocrity is a form of happiness; they have a natural instinct for mastering one thing, for specialization. It would be altogether unworthy of a profound intellect to see anything objectionable in mediocrity in itself. It is, in fact, the first prerequisite to the appearance of the exceptional: it is a necessary condition to a high degree of civilization. When the exceptional man handles the mediocre man with more delicate fingers than he applies to himself or to his equals, this is not merely kindness of heart—it is simply his duty.... Whom do I hate most heartily among the rabbles of today? The rabble of Socialists, the apostles to the Chandala, who undermine the workingman's instincts, his pleasure, his feeling of contentment with his petty existence—who make him envious and teach him revenge.... Wrong never lies in unequal rights; it lies in the assertion of 'equal' rights.... What is bad? But I have already answered: all that proceeds from weakness, from envy, from revenge.—The anarchist and the Christian have the same ancestry...." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Sa mạc lớn dần, khốn thay cho kẻ nào ôm giữ sa mạc." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Des jugements, des appréciations de la vie, pour ou contre, ne peuvent, en dernière instance, jamais être vrais : ils n'ont d'autre valeur que celle d'être des symptômes — en soi de tels jugements sont des stupidités. Il faut donc étendre les doigts pour tâcher de saisir cette finesse extraordinaire que la valeur de la vie ne peut pas être appréciée. Ni par un vivant, parce qu'il est partie, même objet de litige, et non pas juge : ni par un mort, pour une autre raison. — De la part d'un philosophe, voir un problème dans la valeur de la vie, demeure même une objection contre lui, un point d'interrogation envers sa sagesse, un manque de sagesse." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Let us face ourselves. We are Hyperboreans!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We know that the destruction of an ideal does not necessarily produce a truth, but only one more piece of ignorance; it is the extension of our ‘empty space,' an increase in our ‘waste." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To die proudly when it is not possible to live proudly anymore. Death, chosen of one's own free will, death at the the right time, with brightness and cheer, done in the midst of children and witnesses, so that it is still really possible to take one's leave, when the one taking leave IS STILL THERE, with a real assessment of what one has achieved and willed, a Summation of life — all the opposite of the pitiful and appalling comedy that Christianity has made of the hour of death." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Anlamıyorlar beni, bu kulaklara göre ağız değilim ben." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Trebuie să ai în tine încă haos, spre-a da născare unei stele dansatoare. Vă spun, voi înc-aveţi în sinea voastră destul haos. Vai! Vine timpul când omul nu va mai putea să dea născare unei stele dansatoare. Vai! Vine timpul celui mai de dispreţ dintre toţi oamenii, cel ce nu mai poate-a se dispreţui pe sine. Iată! V-arăt ultimul om. „Ce e iubirea? Ce-i creaţia? Ce e dorinţa? Ce este-o stea?"" — aşa se-ntreabă cel din urmă om, făcându-ne cu ochiul. Îngust va fi atunci pământul, se va vedea cum ţopăie pe el ultimul om, cel care micşorează orice lucru. Prăsila lui este indestructibilă, ca puricele de pământ; utimul om o să trăiască cel mai mult.„Noi"", zice-va ultimul om, făcându-ne cu ochiul, „suntem inventatorii fericirii." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There is something the child sees that he does not see; something the child hears that he does not hear; and this something is the most important thing of all. Because he does not understand it, his understanding is more childish than the child's and more simple than simplicity itself; in spite of the many clever wrinkles on his parchment face, and the masterly play of his fingers in unravelling the knots." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Said ye ever Yea to one joy? O my friends, then said ye Yea also unto ALL woe. All things are enlinked, enlaced and enamoured." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"ایمان یعنی این كه نخواهی بدانی واقعیت چیست." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In truth there is no individual truths but rather individual errors: the individual itself is an error. Everything that happens in us is in itself something other than we do not know: we first put intention and deception and morality into nature. –I make the distinction however between the imaginary individuals and the true ‘life systems,' of which each of us is one – one throws both together into one while ‘the individual' is only a sum of conscious sensations and judgements and errors, a belief, a small piece of the true life-system or many pieces thought and fabled as together, a ‘unity,' that has no rank. We are blossoms on a tree – what do we know of that which can become of us in the interest of the tree! But we have a consciousness as if we would and should be everything, a fantasy of ‘I' and all ‘not-I.' To stop feeling oneself as such a fantastic ego! To learn gradually to throw away the supposed individual! To discover the errors of the ego! To realize egoism is an error! Not to understand its opposite as altruism! That would be the love of other supposed individuals! No! Beyond ‘me' and ‘you'! To feel cosmically." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"the Alexandrian man, who is basically a librarian and copy editor and goes miserably blind from the dust of books and printing errors." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"And that discovery would betray the closely guarded secret of modern culture to the laughter of the world. For we moderns have nothing of our own. We only become worth notice by filling ourselves to overflowing with foreign customs, arts, philosophies, religions and sciences: we are wandering encyclopaedias, as an ancient Greek who had strayed into our time would probably call us. But the only value of an encyclopaedia lies in the inside, in the contents, not in what is written outside, in the binding or the wrapper. And so the whole of modern culture is essentially internal; the bookbinder prints something like this on the cover: 'Manual of internal culture for external barbarians.' The opposition of inner and outer makes the outer side still more barbarous, as it would naturally be, when the outward growth of a rude people merely developed its primitive inner needs. For what means has nature of repressing too great a luxuriance from without? Only one,—to be affected by it as little as possible, to set it aside and stamp it out at the first opportunity. And so we have the custom of no longer taking real things seriously, we get the feeble personality on which the real and the permanent make so little impression. Men become at last more careless and accommodating in external matters, and the [Pg 34] considerable cleft between substance and form is widened; until they have no longer any feeling for barbarism, if only their memories be kept continually titillated, and there flow a constant stream of new things to be known, that can be neatly packed up in the cupboards of their memory." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It was as if his apostasy from the faith of his fathers, filling him with the fiery zeal of the convert, and particularly of the convert to heresy, had blinded him to every other element in the gigantic self-delusion of civilized man." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Amo os que não procuram por detrás das estrelas uma razão para morrer e oferecer-se em sacrifício, mas se sacrificam pela terra, para que a terra pertença um dia ao Super-homem." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"For nothing is of greater importance than that a powerful, long-established, and irrational custom should be once again confirmed by the act of some one who is recognized as rational. In this way the proceeding is thought to be sanctioned by reason itself! All honor to your opinions! but little unconventional actions are of still greater value." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"أتوسل إليكم، أيها الأخوة أن تحتفظوا للأرض بإخلاصكم فلا تصدقوا من يمنونكم بآمال تتعالى فوقها ، انهم يعللونكم بالمحال فيدسون لكم السم ، سواء أجهلوا أم عرفوا ما يعملون اولئك هم المزدرون للحياة ، لقد رعى السم أحشاءهم فهم يحتضرون ، لقد تعبت الأرض منهم فليقلعوا عنها ." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is the belief in the moral opposition between Good and Evil that makes the world tremendously hateful and eternally conflict ridden." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Hatred for mediocrity is unworthy of a philosopher: it is almost a question mark against his right to philosophy. Precisely because he is an exception he has to take the rule under his protection, he has to keep the mediocre in good heart." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The Free Man is a Warrior. I do not believe in any Rights that are not supported by the power required to enforce them." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Honor to the government, and obedience, and also to the crooked government! So desires good sleep. How can I help it, if power likes to walk on crooked legs?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Seriousness in play. At sunset in Genoa, I heard from a tower a long chiming of bells; it kept on and on, and over the noise of the backstreets, as if insatiable for itself, it rang out into the evening sky and the sea air, so terrible and so childish at the same time, so melancholy. then I thoughts of Platos's words and felt them suddenly in my heart: all in all, nothing human is worth taking very seriously; nevertheless ..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Of necessity we remain strangers to ourselves, we understand ourselves not, in ourselves we are bound to be mistaken, for of us holds good to all eternity the motto, 'Each one is the farthest away from himself'—as far as ourselves are concerned we are not 'knowers." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"This modernity makes us ill: whinging peace and cowardly compromise, the whole virtuous filth of the modern mentality. This tolerance and largeur of the heart that 'forgives' everything because it 'understands' everything is a desert wind for us. Better to live amid the ice than among modern virtues and other such southern winds!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Um allein zu leben, muss man ein Thier oder ein Gott sein - sagt Aristoteles. Fehlt der dritte Fall: man muss Beides sein - Philosoph...." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In Goethe we find a kind of fatalism which is almost joyous and confiding, which neither revolts nor weakens, which strives to make a totality out of itself, in the belief that only in totality does every thing seem good and justified, and find itself resolved." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"ماصعب علي الاعتقاد باحتياج الحياة الى العداء والقتل والاستشهاد كما صعب علي التسليم بضرورة وجود الوغد الزنيم فيها" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"it is not only he who speaks contrary to what he knows who lies, but even more he who speaks contrary to what he does not know" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Consciousness is the last and latest development of the organic and hence also what is most unfinished and unstrong." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"For ten years you have climbed here to my cave: you would have become weary of shining and of the journey, had it not been for me, my eagle, and my serpent." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"الذى لا يصدق نفسه يكذب على الدوام" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To vigorous men intimacy is a matter of shame--and something precious." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"إني لا زلت حيا، و الحياة، على الأقل، لم تبتكرها الأخلاق: إنها تريد الوهم، و بالوهم تحيا..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Socialists are particularly ridiculous in my eyes, because of their absurd optimism concerning the ""good man"" who is supposed to be waiting in their cupboard, and who will come into being when the present order of society has been overturned and has made way for natural instincts. But the opposing party is quite as ludicrous, because it will not see the act of violence which lies beneath every law, the severity and egoism inherent in every kind of authority. ""I and my kind will rule and prevail. Whoever degenerates will be either expelled or annihilated."" This was the fundamental feeling of all ancient legislation. The idea of a higher order of man is hated much more profoundly than monarchs themselves. Hatred of aristocracy always uses hatred of monarchy as a mask." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What is not intelligible to me is not necessarily unintelligent." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It seems that in order to inscribe themselves upon the heart of humanity with everlasting claims, all great things have first to wander about the earth as enormous and awe-inspiring caricatures:" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Back then you carried your ashes to the mountain; would you now carry your fire into the alley?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Тяжело бремя жизни"": не прикидывайтесь такими неженками! Все мы выносливы, как вьючьные ослы." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Madness is rare in individuals—but in groups, parties, nations, and ages it is the rule." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Be not virtuous beyond your powers! And seek nothing from yourselves opposed to probability!...Shy, ashamed, awkward, like the tiger whose spring hath failed—thus, ye higher men, have I often seen you slink aside. A cast which ye made had failed...The higher its type, always the seldomer doth a thing succeed. Ye higher men here, have ye not all—been failures?Be of good cheer; what doth it matter? How much is still possible! Learn to laugh at yourselves, as ye ought to laugh!What wonder even that ye have failed and only half-succeeded, ye half-shattered ones! Doth not—man's future strive and struggle in you?Man's furthest, profoundest, star-highest issues, his prodigious powers—do not all these foam through one another in your vessel?What wonder that many a vessel shattereth! Learn to laugh at yourselves, as ye ought to laugh! Ye higher men, Oh, how much is still possible!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"باری بدترینن چیز خُزداندیشی‌ست. به راستی شرارت به که خُرداندیشی!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The world itself is a filthy monster." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"This is Europe's true predicament: together with the fear of man we have also lost the love of man, reverence for man, confidence in man, indeed the will to man. Now the sight of man makes us weary. What is nihilism today if not that?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"If, as Gibbon says, nothing but time - though a long time- is required for a world to perish; so nothing but time -though still more time- is required for a false idea to be destroyed in Germany." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I beg of you my brothers, remain true to the earth, believe not those who speak to you of otherworldly hopes! Poisoners are they." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Truth Requires Power — Truth in itself is no power at all, in spite of all that flattering rationalists are in the habit of saying to the contrary. Truth must either attract power to its side, or else side with power, for otherwise it will perish again and again. This has already been sufficiently demonstrated, and more than sufficiently!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Zarathustra, however, answered thus unto him who so spake: When one taketh his hump from the hunchback, then doth one take from him his spirit—so do the people teach. And when one giveth the blind man eyes, then doth he see too many bad things on the earth: so that he curseth him who healed him. He, however, who maketh the lame man run, inflicteth upon him the greatest in him — so do the people teach concerning cripples" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The subject as multiplicity. Pain as intellectual and totally dependent on the judgement ""harmful"" projected outwards. Pleasure is a kind of pain. The effect is always ""unconscious"". The inferred and imagined cause is transposed onto what follows in time. The only force that exists produces the same effect as the will: it commands other subjects, which change as a result. The continuous, fleeting, transitory nature of the subject. ""Mortal soul"". Number as a form of perspective." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"That the artist places a higher value on appearance than on reality constitutes no objection to this proposition. For ‘appearance' here signifies reality once more, only selected, strengthened, corrected.… The tragic artist is not a pessimist – it is precisely he who affirms all that is questionable and terrible in existence, he is Dionysian…" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Equality before the enemy—first precondition for an honest duel." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"قلب مثقل بحرارة ورطوبة خانقة, وعقل بارد, حيثما اجتمع هذان الأمران, فهناك يكون منشأ الريح الهادرة ""المخلص"" !" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Being sick is itself a kind of ressentiment. — Against this the invalid has only one great means of cure — I call it Russian fatalism, that fatalism without rebellion with which a Russian soldier for whom the campaign has become too much at last lies down in the snow." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"You preachers of equality, the tyrannomania of impotence clamors thus out of you for equality: your most secret ambitions to be tyrants thus shroud themselves in words of virtue. Aggrieved conceit, repressed envy—perhaps the conceit and envy of your fathers—erupt from you as a flame and as the frenzy of revenge." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Every past is worth condemning." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Người ta sát hại không phải bằng cơn phẫn nộ điên cuồng, mà chính bằng tiếng cười" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Where we encounter the ""naïve"" in art, we should recognize the highest effect of Apollinian culture--which always must first overthrow an empire of Titans and slay monsters, and which must have triumphed over an abysmal and terrifying view of the world and the keenest susceptibility to suffering through recourse to the most forceful and pleasurable illusions." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What is the Seal of Attained Liberty? — To be no longer ashamed of oneself." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Has any one at the end of the nineteenth century any distinct notion of what poets of a stronger age understood by the word inspiration? If not, I will describe it. If one had the smallest vestige of superstition left in one, it would hardly be possible completely to set aside the idea that one is the mere incarnation, mouthpiece, or medium of an almighty power. The idea of revelation, in the sense that something which profoundly convulses and upsets one becomes suddenly visible and audible with indescribable certainty and accuracy―describes the simple fact. One hears―one does not seek; one takes―one does not ask who gives. A thought suddenly flashes up like lightening; it comes with necessity, without faltering. I have never had any choice in the matter. There is an ecstasy so great that the immense strain of it is sometimes relaxed by a flood of tears, during which one's steps now involuntarily rush and anon involuntarily lag. There is the feeling that one is utterly out of hand, with the very distinct consciousness of an endless number of fine thrills and titillations descending to one's very toes. There is a depth of happiness in which the most painful and gloomy parts do not act as antitheses to the rest, but are produced and required as necessary shades of color in such an overflow of light. There is an instinct of rhythmic relations which embraces a whole world of forms (length, the need of a wide-embracing rhythm, is almost the measure of the force of an inspiration, a sort of counterpart to its pressure and tension). Everything happens quite involuntary, as if in a tempestuous outburst of freedom, of absoluteness, of power and divinity. The involuntary nature of the figures and similes is the most remarkable thing; everything seems to present itself as the readiest, the truest, and simplest means of expression. It actually seems, to use one of Zarathustra's own phrases, as if all things came to one, and offered themselves as similes. . . ." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I am opposed to parliamentary government and the power of the press, because they are the means whereby cattle become masters." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Among the things that can drive a thinker to despair is the knowledge that the illogical is necessary for man and that much good comes from it. It is so firmly lodged in the passions, in speech, in art, in religion, and generally in everything which endows life with value, that one cannot extricate it without doing irreparable harm to these beautiful things. Only the very naive are capable of thinking that the nature of man can be transformed into a purely logical one; but, if there were degrees of approximation to this goal, how much would not have to vanish along this path! Even the most rational man needs nature again from time to time, that is, his illogical basic attitude to all things." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What is Genius?- To aspire to a lofty aim and to will the means to that aim." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Truth is a mobile army of metaphors, metonyms, anthropomorphisms, in short, a sum of human relations which were poetically and rhetorically heightened, transferred, and adorned, and after long use seem solid, canonical, and binding to a nation. Truths are illusions about which it has been forgotten that they are illusions.from ""On Truth and Lying in an Extra-Moral Sense" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What surprises me most when surveying the great destinies of man is always seeing before me the opposite of what Darwin and his school see or want to see today: selection in favor of the stronger, in favor of those who have come off better, the progress of the species. The very opposite is quite palpably the case: the elimination of the strokes of luck, the uselessness of the better-constituted types, the inevitable domination achieved by the average, even below-average types." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Perhaps no one has yet been truthful enough about what 'truthfulness' is." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"ليس حقدى, بل قرفى هو الذى يلتهم حياتى بنهم ! آه لقد غدا العقل بدوره مملا بالنسبة لى منذ أن وجدت الرعاع أيضا ذات عقول !" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When the past speaks it always speaks as an oracle: only if you are an architect of the future and know the present will you understand it." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Take care not to spit against the wind!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I pray God to deliver me from God !" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A small revenge is humaner than no revenge at all. And if the punishment be not also a right and an honor to the transgressor, I do not like your punishing.Nobler is it to own oneself in the wrong than to establish one's right, especially if one be in the right. Only, one must be rich enough to do so. I do not like your cold justice; out of the eye of your judges there always glanceth the executioner and his cold steel.Tell me: where find we justice, which is love with seeing eyes?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I too have been in the underworld, like Odysseus, and will be there again; and I have not sacrificed only rams to be able to talk with the dead, but have not spared my own blood as well. There have been four pairs who did not refuse themselves to me, the sacrificer: Epicurus and Montaigne, Goethe and Spinoza, Plato and Rousseau, Pascal and Schopenhauer. With these I have had to come to terms when I have wandered all alone, from them will I accept judgement, to them I will listen when in doing so they judge one another. Whatever I say, resolve, cogitate for myself and others: upon these eight I fix my eyes and see theirs fixed upon me. - May the living forgive me if they sometimes appear to me as shades, so pale and ill-humoured, so restless and, alas! so lusting for life: whereas those others then seem to me so alive, as through now, after death, they could never again grow weary of life. Eternal liveliness, however, is what counts: what do 'eternal life', or life at all, matter to us!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There is great advantage to be gained in distantly estranging ourselves from our age and for once being driven as it were away from its shores back on to the ocean of the world-outlooks of the past. Looking back at the coast from this distance we command a view, no doubt for the first time, of its total configuration, and when we approach it again we have the advantage of understanding it better as a whole than those who have never left it." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Odobravanje. Mislilac ne potrebuje odobravanje i pljesak, uz pretpostavku da je siguran u svoj vlastiti pljesak." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Notre religion, notre morale, notre philosophie, en sont que des formes de decadence de l humanite, le contre mouvement: l art" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Sicknesses, especially those affecting nerves and head, are signs that the defensive strength of the strong natures is lacking; precisely this is suggested by irritability, so pleasure and displeasure become foreground problems." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We deny God; in denying God, we deny accountability: only by doing that do we redeem the world. –" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Many die too late, and some die too early." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"flee, my friend, into thy solitude! i see thee defended with the noise of great men, and stung all over with the stings of little ones. Admirably do forest and rock know how to be silent with thee. resemble again the tree which thou lovest" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"ليس كل كلمة صالحة لأى شدق" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Öfkeyle değil, gülmeyle öldürür insan. Hadi, öldürelim ağırlığın ruhunu!Yürümeyi öğrendim: o zamandan beri koşturuveriyorum. Uçmayı öğrendim: o zamandan beri kimse itmeden havalanıveriyorum.Hafifim şimdi, uçuyorum şimdi, kendimle baş başa görüyorum kendimi, şimdi bir tanrı dans ediyor bende." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"whatever is done from love always occurs beyond good and evil." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"From the practice of wise men.—To become wise, one must wish to have certain experiences and run, as it were, into their gaping jaws. This, of course, is very dangerous; many a wise guy has been swallowed. 301" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"He that speaks here, conversely, has done nothing so far but reflect: a philosopher and solitary by instinct, who has found his advantage in standing aside and outside, in patience, in procrastination, in staying behind; as a spirit of daring and experiment that has already lost its way once in every labyrinth of the future; as a soothsayer-bird spirit who looks back when relating what will come; as the first perfect nihilist of Europe who, however, has even now lived through the whole of nihilism, to the end, leaving it behind, outside himself." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Hay quien no encuentra su corazón hasta que no pierde la cabeza." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Our destiny exercises its influence over us even when, as yet, we have not learned its nature: it is our future that lays down the law of our today." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"الله وخلود الروح والخلاص والآخرة كلها مفاهيم لم أعرها إهتمامى ولا منحتها وقتى البتّة, ولا حتى كصبى, لعلنى لم أكن صبيانيا بما فيه الكفاية لمثل هذه الاشياء" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What do philosophers lack? (a) an historical sense, (b) knowledge of physiology, (c) a goal in the future— The ability to formulate a critique without any irony or moral condemnation." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The free intellect copies human life, but it considers this life to be something good and seems to be quite satisfied with it. That immense framework and planking of concepts to which the needy man clings his whole life long in order to preserve himself is nothing but a scaffolding and toy for the most audacious feats of the liberated intellect. And when it smashes this framework to pieces, throws it into confusion, and puts it back together in an ironic fashion, pairing the most alien things and separating the closest, it is demonstrating that it has no need of these makeshifts of indigence and that it will now be guided by intuitions rather than by concepts." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Every church is a stone on the grave of a god-man: it does not want him to rise up again under any circumstances." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Like a deep well is the solitary. Easy it is to throw a stone in; but if it sink to the bottom, tell me, who will want to fetch it out again?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"سيكون عليكم أن تحطموا إرادة العبادة التى فى أنفسكم أولا, كى أتعلم الإعتقاد فى صدقكم" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We have abolished the real world: what world is left? The apparent world perhaps? . . . But no! with the real world we have also abolished the apparent world." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"—I cannot, at this place, avoid a sigh. There are days when I am visited by a feeling blacker than the blackest melancholy—contempt of man. Let me leave no doubt as to what I despise, whom I despise: it is the man of today, the man with whom I am unhappily contemporaneous. The man of today—I am suffocated by his foul breath!… Toward the past, like all who understand, I am full of tolerance, which is to say, generous self-control: with gloomy caution I pass through whole millenniums of this madhouse of a world, call it 'Christianity,' 'Christian faith' or the 'Christian church,' as you will—I take care not to hold mankind responsible for its lunacies. But my feeling changes and breaks out irresistibly the moment I enter modern times, our times. Our age knows better… . What was formerly merely sickly now becomes indecent—it is indecent to be a Christian today. And here my disgust begins.—I look about me: not a word survives of what was once called 'truth'; we can no longer bear to hear a priest pronounce the word. Even a man who makes the most modest pretensions to integrity must know that a theologian, a priest, a pope of today not only errs when he speaks, but actually lies—and that he no longer escapes blame for his lie through 'innocence' or 'ignorance.' The priest knows, as every one knows, that there is no longer any 'God,' or any 'sinner,' or any 'Saviour'—that 'free will' and the 'moral order of the world' are lies—: serious reflection, the profound self-conquest of the spirit, allow no man to pretend that he does not know it… . All the ideas of the church are now recognized for what they are—as the worst counterfeits in existence, invented to debase nature and all natural values; the priest himself is seen as he actually is—as the most dangerous form of parasite, as the venomous spider of creation… . We know, our conscience now knows—just what the real value of all those sinister inventions of priest and church has been and what ends they have served, with their debasement of humanity to a state of self-pollution, the very sight of which excites loathing,—the concepts 'the other world,' 'the last judgment,' 'the immortality of the soul,' the 'soul' itself: they are all merely so many instruments of torture, systems of cruelty, whereby the priest becomes master and remains master… . Every one knows this, but nevertheless things remain as before. What has become of the last trace of decent feeling, of self-respect, when our statesmen, otherwise an unconventional class of men and thoroughly anti-Christian in their acts, now call themselves Christians and go to the communion-table?… A prince at the head of his armies, magnificent as the expression of the egoism and arrogance of his people—and yet acknowledging, without any shame, that he is a Christian!… Whom, then, does Christianity deny? what does it call 'the world'? To be a soldier, to be a judge, to be a patriot; to defend one's self; to be careful of one's honour; to desire one's own advantage; to be proud … every act of everyday, every instinct, every valuation that shows itself in a deed, is now anti-Christian: what a monster of falsehood the modern man must be to call himself nevertheless, and without shame, a Christian!—" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To live as it pleases me, or not to live at all." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"He who seeks may easily get lost himself. All solitude is wrong"": so say the herd. And long did you belong to the herd." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The root of all evil: the slavish morality of meekness, chastity, selflessness, absolute obedience, has triumphed — ruling natures were thus condemned, to hypocrisy, to torments of conscience.The best things have been slandered because the weak or the immoderate swine have cast a bad light on them — and the best men have remained hidden — and have often misunderstood themselves." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"there they laugh: they understand me not; I am not the mouth for these ears." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Or is it this: To be sick and send away the comforters, and to make friends of the deaf, who never hear your requests?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Man is something that should be overcome." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"ان الحالات الشاذة هي التي تكوّن المبدع، وهي حالات وثيقة الصلة بالظواهر المرضية، فالإنسان في جوهره حيوان مريض، وذلك متأتٍ من كونه أكثر الحيوان جُرأة وتجديدًا، ومن كونه كثير التجارب على نفسه، دائم الكفاح ضد الحيوان والطبيعة من أجل السيطرة الكاملة" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There is so much in man that is horrifying!..The world has been a madhouse for too long!..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Glaubt es mir - das Geheimnis, um die größte Fruchtbarkeit und den größten Genuß vom Dasein einzuernten, heisst: gefährlich leben. " -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Morality makes stupid. — Custom represents the experiences of men of earlier times as to what they supposed useful and harmful — but the sense for custom (morality) applies, not to these experiences as such, but to the age, the sanctity, the indiscussability of the custom. And so this feeling is a hindrance to the acquisition of new experiences and the correction of customs: that is to say, morality is a hindrance to the development of new and better customs: it makes stupid." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Prijatelji moji, kao mladici imali smo tezak zivot, mi smo patili od mladosti kao da je to neka teska bolljka. To je dolazilo od veka u koji smo bili baceni, veka ogromnog unutrasnjeg opadanja i raspadanja, koji se sa svima svojim slabostima, pa cak i svojom najboljom snagom suprotstavlja duhu mladosti. Raspadanje, to jest neizvesnost, svojstveno je ovom veku, nista ne stoji na sigurnim nogama i tvrdoj veri u sebe, zivi se za sutra, jer je prekosutra neizvesno. Sve je klizavo i opasno na nasem putu, a uz to se jos otanjio led na kome stojimo, svi osecamo kako dise stravican, topao jug - gde mi jos sada gazimo, doskora niko vise nece moci da stane nogom." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The human being first put values into things, in order to preserve itself—it created a meaning for things, a human's meaning! Therefore it calls itself 'human'—that is: the evaluator." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"But one day solitude will make you weary, one day your pride will buckle and your courage gnash its teeth. One day you will cry, 'I am alone!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The true world—unattainable? At any rate, unattained. And being unattained, also unknown. Consequently, not consoling, redeeming, or obligating: how could something unknown obligate us?(Gray morning. The first yawn of reason. The cockcrow of positivism.)The true world—an idea which is no longer good for anything, not even obligating—an idea which has become useless and superfluous—consequently, a refuted idea: let us abolish it!(Bright day; breakfast; return of bon sens and cheerfulness; Plato's embarrassed blush; pandemonium of all free spirits.)The true world—we have abolished. What world has remained? The apparent one perhaps? But no! (Noon; moment of the briefest shadow; end of the longest error; high point of humanity; INCIPIT ZARATHUSTRA)" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Solitary people. Some people are so used to solitude with themselves that they never compare themselves to others, but spin forth their monologue of a life in a calm, joyous mood, holding good conversations with themselves, even laughing. But if they are made to compare themselves with others, they tend to a brooding underestimation of their selves: so that they have to be forced to learn again from others to have a good, fair opinion of themselves. And even from this learned opinion they will always want to detract or reduce something.Thus one must grant certain men their solitude, and not be silly enough, as often happens, to pity them for it." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Always at home. - One day we reach our goal, and now point with pride to the long travels we undertook to reach it. In fact, we were not even aware of traveling. But we got so far because we fancied at every point that we were at home." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Os homens de profunda tristeza denunciam-se quando são felizes: têm um modo de pegar na felicidade como se quisessem esmagá-la e sufocá-la, por ciúme - ah, sabem bem de mais que lhes foge!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The genius of the heart, that makes everything loud and complacent fall silent and learn to listen, that smoothes out rough souls and gives them the taste of a new desire—to lie still, like a mirror that the deep sky can mirror itself upon…they are made richer in themselves, newer than before, broken open, sounded out by a thawing wind, perhaps less certain, more gentle, fragile, and broken, but full of hopes that do not have names yet, full of new wills and currents, of indignations and countercurrents…" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is quite impossible for a man not to have the qualities and predilections of his parents and ancestors in his constitution, whatever appearances may suggest to the contrary. This is the problem of race. Granted that one knows something of the parents, it is admissible to draw a conclusion about the child: any kind of offensive incontinence, any kind of sordid envy, or of clumsy self-vaunting—the three things which together have constituted the genuine plebeian type in all times—such must pass over to the child, as surely as bad blood; and with the help of the best education and culture one will only succeed in deceiving with regard to such heredity.—And what else does education and culture try to do nowadays! In our very democratic, or rather, very plebeian age, 'education' and 'culture' must be essentially the art of deceiving—deceiving with regard to origin, with regard to the inherited plebeianism in body and soul. An educator who nowadays preached truthfulness above everything else, and called out constantly to his pupils: 'Be true! Be natural! Show yourselves as you are!'—even such a virtuous and sincere ass would learn in a short time to have recourse to the furca of Horace, naturam expellere: with what results? 'Plebeianism' usque recurret.6" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The poison by which the weaker nature is destroyed is strengthening to the strong individual-and he does not call it poison." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We suffer from the malady of words, and have no trust in any feeling that is not stamped with its special word." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There is no more dangerous error than that of mistaking the consequence for the cause:" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In the end one has to do everything oneself in order to know a few things oneself: that is, one has a lot to do. But a curiosity of my type remains after all the most agreeable of all vices—sorry, I meant to say: the love of truth has its reward in heaven and even on earth.—" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Do I then strive after happiness? I strive after my work!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Every error, of whatever kind, is a consequence of degeneration of instinct, disgregation of will: one has thereby virtually defined the bad. Everything good is instinct – and consequently easy, necessary, free. Effort is an objection, the god is typically distinguished from the hero (in my language: light feet are the first attribute of divinity)." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Something might be true, even if it were also harmful and dangerous in the highest degree; indeed, it might be part of the essential nature of existence that to understand it completely would lead to our own destruction. The strength of a person's spirit would then be measured by how much ""truth"" he could tolerate, or more precisely, to what extent he 'needs' to have it diluted, disguised, sweetened, muted, falsified." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Самотата го обгръща и обвива все по-заплашителна, тя го души все повече и стяга по-силно сърцето му, онази страшна богиня и mater saeva cupidinum, ала кой знае днес какво е самота?..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When he was young, that God out of the Orient, then was he harsh andrevengeful, and built himself a hell for the delight of his favourites.At last, however, he became old and soft and mellow and pitiful, morelike a grandfather than a father, but most like a tottering old grandmother." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We work only with things that don't exist, with lines, planes, bodies, atoms, units of time, units of space—how is explanation even possible if we begin by making everything into an image, our image! It" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What a man is begins to betray itself when his talent decreases—when he stops showing what he can do. Talent, too, is finery; finery, too, is a hiding place." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Why should one live? All is vain! To live- that is to thresh straw; to live- that is to burn oneself and yet not get warm.-" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"پارسا سخن مي گويد؛خدا ما را دوست مي دارد از آنرو كه ما را آفريدشما نازك انديشان چنين ميگوئيد""انسان خدا را آفريد""و آيا نبايد دوست داشته باشد آنچه را كه آفريده است؟آيا از آنرو كه آنرا آفريد مي تواند انكارش كند؟اين گفته لنگ ميزند، نعل ابليس برپاي دارد" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Nơi người đàn bà, tất cả đều là ẩn ngữ: nhưng ẩn ngữ bí mật ấy có một lời giải đáp: sự hoài thai.Đàn ông là một phương tiện cho đàn bà: mục tiêu đàn bà nhắm tới luôn luôn là đứa con. Nhưng đàn bà là cái gì đối với đàn ông?Người mang dòng máu đàn ông đích thực có hai khát vọng: sự nguy hiểm và trò chơi. Chính vì thế hắn thèm muốn người đàn bà như một món đồ chơi nguy hiểm nhất.Đàn ông nuôi dưỡng cho chiến chinh, và đàn bà, cho sự giải trí của chiến sĩ; mọi điều khác đều là điên rồ, ngu xuẩn." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"أيسحرك أسلوبي وكلامي ؟ماذا ؟ ستتبعني خطوه خطوه ؟لا تأبه بأن تكون إلا لنفسك مخلصا  ! وستكون قد تبعتني رويدا ! رويدا" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Nasza miłość bliźniego – nie jestże parciem ku nowej własności? I tak samo nasza miłość wiedzy, prawdy? Rzecz stara, bezpiecznie posiadana uprzykrza nam się stopniowo i znowu wyciągamy ręce; najpiękniejszy nawet krajobraz, wśród którego przebywamy trzy miesiące, nie jest już pewny naszej miłości, i gdzieś jakiś daleki brzeg podnieca chciwość naszą. Posiadanie uszczupla się zazwyczaj przez posiadanie. Nasza uciecha z samych siebie chce utrzymać się w ten sposób, że ciągle coś nowego w nas samych przemienia – to właśnie zowie się posiadaniem. Uprzykrzyć sobie jakieś posiadanie, jest to uprzykrzyć sobie siebie samych. Jeśli widzimy cierpiącego, to korzystamy chętnie z nadarzającej się wtedy sposobności wzięcia go w posiadanie; czyni to na przykład dobroczynny i litościwy, i on zbudzoną w sobie żądzę nowego posiadania zwie „miłością' i czuje przy tym rozkosz, jak wobec nowej, uśmiechającej się zdobyczy. Najwyraźniej jednak miłość płci zdradza się jako dążenie ku posiadaniu: kochający chce bezwzględnie, wyłącznie posiadać upragnioną przez siebie istotę, chce zarówno bezwzględnej mocy nad jej duszą, jak nad jej ciałem, chce sam tylko być kochany i mieszkać i władać w innej duszy, jako coś najwyższego i najbardziej pożądania godnego. Jeśli się zważy, że to nie znaczy nic innego, tylko że się chce wyłączyć świat cały z posiadania jakiegoś cennego dobra, szczęścia i rozkoszy; jeśli się zważy, że kochający dąży do zubożenia i uczynienia uszczerbku wszystkim innym współzawodnikom i chciałby się stać smokiem swego złotego skarbu, jako najbezwzględniejszy i najsamolubniejszy z wszystkich „zdobywców' i grabieżców." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When our head feels too weak to answer the objections of our opponent our heart answers by casting suspicion on the motives behind his objections." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Người đàn bà phải vâng phục và phải tìm thấu một chiều sâu cho bề mặt cạn cợt của nàng. Tâm hồn người đàn bà là một bề mặt cạn cợt xao động nhốn nháo giông bão ở bên trên một đáy trũng.Nhưng tâm hồn của người đàn ông thì sâu thẳm, làn sóng của tâm hồn ấy gầm thét trong những chiếc hang ngầm dưới đất, nguuời đàn bà cảm nhận được sức mạnh ấy, nhưng không hiểu được nó." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"إن كائناً من النوع المريض في الأساس ليس بإمكانه أن يغدو معافى وأقل من ذلك أن يكون بإمكانه معالجة نفسه وبالمقابل , فإن الوقوع في المرض سيكون بالنسبة لمن هو معافى بطبعه هو حافزاً حيوياً للإقبال على الحياة , بكثافة" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The former morality, namely Kant's, demanded of the individual actions which one desired of all men: that was a very naive thing;" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Has anyone at the end of the nineteenth century any distinct notion of what poets of a stronger age understood by the word inspiration?  If not, I will describe it.  If you had the slightest residue of superstition left in you it would hardly be possible to completely disregard the idea that one is the mere incarnation, a mouthpiece or a medium of an almighty power.  The idea of revelation in the sense of something which profoundly moves and provokes, becoming suddenly visible and audible with indescribable certainty and accuracy—is a simple description.  You hear—you do not seek; you take—and do not ask who gives: a thought suddenly flashes up like lightning, it comes as a necessity, without hesitation—I have never had any choice in the matter. " -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Something might be true, even if it is also harmful and dangerous in the highest degree." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To judge the value of life by whether we find it now unpleasant or not — can a more wild, extravagant vanity be imagined?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Altered is Zarathustra; a child hath Zarathustra become; an awakened one is Zarathustra: what wilt thou do in the land of the sleepers?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"And he who would not languish among men, must learn to drink out of all glasses; and he who would keep clean among men, must know how to wash himself even with dirty water." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"As yet hath his knowledge not learned to smile, and to be without jealously ; as yet hath his gushing passion not become calm in beauty." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"[Dionysos'] being torn into pieces, the genuine Dionysiac suffering, is like a transformation into air, water, earth, and fire, so that we are to regard the state of individuation as the source and primal cause of all suffering.... In the view described here we already have all the constituent elements of a profound way of looking at the world and thus, at the same time, the doctrine of the Mysteries taught by tragedy: the fundamental recognition that everything which exists is a unity; the view that individuation is the primal source of all evil; and art as the joyous hope that the spell of individuation can be broken, a premonition of unity restored." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Allzulange war im Weibe ein Sclave und ein Tyrann versteckt. Deshalb ist das Weib noch nicht der Freundschaft fähig: es kennt nur die Liebe." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Wer sich einmal anschaulich macht, wie nach Sokrates, dem Mystagogen der Wissenschaft, eine Philosophenschule nach der anderen, wie Welle auf Welle, sich ablöst, wie eine nie geahnte Universalität der Wissensgier in dem weitesten Bereich der gebildeten Welt und als eigentliche Aufgabe für jeden höher Befähigten die Wissenschaft auf die hohe See führte, von der sie niemals seitdem wieder völlig vertrieben werden konnte, wie durch diese Universalität erst ein gemeinsames Netz des Gedankens über den gesammten Erdball, ja mit Ausblicken auf die Gesetzlichkeit eines ganzen Sonnensystems, gespannt wurde; wer dies Alles, sammt der erstaunlich hohen Wissenspyramide der Gegenwart, sich vergegenwärtigt, der kann sich nicht entbrechen, in Sokrates den einen Wendepunkt und Wirbel der sogenannten Weltgeschichte zu sehen." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"حيث لا يمكن للمرء أن يحب, يكون عليه أن يمرّ !" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The old God, wholly 'spirit,' wholly the high-priest, wholly perfect, is promenading his garden: he is bored and trying to kill time. Against boredom even gods struggle in vain.[21] What does he do? He creates man—man is entertaining.... But then he notices that man is also bored. God's pity for the only form of distress that invades all paradises knows no bounds: so he forthwith creates other animals. God's first mistake: to man these other animals were not entertaining—he sought dominion over them; he did not want to be an 'animal' himself.—So God created woman. In the act he brought boredom to an end—and also many other things! Woman was the second mistake of God.—'Woman, at bottom, is a serpent, Heva'—every priest knows that; 'from woman comes every evil in the world'— every priest knows that, too. Ergo, she is also to blame for science.... It was through woman that man learned to taste of the tree of knowledge.—What happened? The old God was seized by mortal terror. Man himself had been his greatest blunder; he had created a rival to himself; science makes men godlike—it is all up with priests and gods when man becomes scientific!—Moral: science is the forbidden per se; it alone is forbidden. Science is the first of sins, the germ of all sins, the original sin. This is all there is of morality.—'Thou shall not know':—the rest follows from that.—God's mortal terror, however, did not hinder him from being shrewd. How is one to protect one's self against science? For a long while this was the capital problem. Answer: Out of paradise with man! Happiness, leisure, foster thought—and all thoughts are bad thoughts!—Man must not think.—And so the priest invents distress, death, the mortal dangers of childbirth, all sorts of misery, old age, decrepitude, above all, sickness—nothing but devices for making war on science! The troubles of man don't allow him to think.... Nevertheless—how terrible!—, the edifice of knowledge begins to tower aloft, invading heaven, shadowing the gods—what is to be done?—The old God invents war; he separates the peoples; he makes men destroy one another (—the priests have always had need of war....). War—among other things, a great disturber of science!—Incredible! Knowledge, deliverance from the priests, prospers in spite of war.—So the old God comes to his final resolution: 'Man has become scientific—there is no help for it: he must be drowned!'..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"إن الحياة نبع مسّرة, لكن حيثما يكرع الرعاع تتسمم كل الآبار" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Rather go out of the way! Flee into concealment! And have your masks and your ruses, that ye may be mistaken for what you are, or somewhat feared! And pray, don't forget the garden, the garden with golden trellis-work! And have people around you who are as a garden—or as music on the waters at eventide, when already the day becomes a memory. Choose the GOOD solitude, the free, wanton, lightsome solitude, which also gives you the right still to remain good in any sense whatsoever!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Making plans. - To make plans and project designs brings with it many good sensations; and whoever had the strength to be nothing but a forger of plans his whole life long would be a very happy man: but he would occasionally have to make a rest from this activity by carrying out a plan - and then comes the vexation and the sobering up." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In regard to the memory, we must unlearn a great deal: here we meet with the greatest temptation to assume the existence of a 'soul,' which, irrespective of time, reproduces and recognises again and again, etc. What I have experienced, however, continues to live 'in the memory'; I have nothing to do with it when memory 'comes,' my will is inactive in regard to it, as in the case of the coming and going of a thought. Something happens, of which I become conscious: now something similar comes — who has called it forth? Who has awakened it?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"dead through immortality.'"" We" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Ik houd van hem, die vrij van geest en vrij van hart is: aldus is zijn hoofd slechts het ingewand van zijn hart; zijn hart echter drijft hem tot ondergang." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In wickedness the haughty man and the weakling meet. But they misunderstand one another. I know you." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The command ‘love your enemies!' had to be invented by the Jews, the best haters there have ever been." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I should still, paradoxical as it may sound, like to maintain the opposite valuation of the dream in relation to the mysterious foundation of our being, whose phenomena we are. The more aware I become of these omnipotent art impulses in nature, and find in them an ardent longing for illusion and for redemption by illusion, the more I feel compelled to make the metaphysical assumption that the truly existent, the primal Oneness, eternally suffering and contradictory, also needs the delightful vision, the pleasurable illusion for its constant redemption: an illusion that we, utterly caught up in it and consisting of it—as a continuous becoming in time, space and causality, in other words—are required to see as empirical reality." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I soon learned to separate theological from moral prejudices, and I gave up looking for a supernatural origin of evil. A" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"باورهای محکم و قاطع بیشتر از دروغ، حقیقت را تحدید می کند." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What, then, is truth? A mobile army of metaphors, metonyms, and anthropomorphisms—in short, a sum of human relations which have been enhanced, transposed, and embellished poetically and rhetorically, and which after long use seem firm, canonical, and obligatory to a people: truths are illusions about which one has forgotten that this is what they are; metaphors which are worn out and without sensuous power; coins which have lost their pictures and now matter only as metal, no longer as coins." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"تاب آوردن زندگي دشوار است: اما خود را چنين نازپرورده منماي! ما همه نرينه و مادينه خران خوش خط و خال باركشيم" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"That which separates two men most profoundly is a different sense and grade of purity. What does it matter about all their honesty and reciprocal usefulness, what does it matter about all their mutual good-will: the fact still remains—they ""cannot smell each other!"" The highest instinct for purity places him who is affected with it in the most extraordinary and dangerous isolation, as a saint: for it is just holiness—the highest spiritualization of the instinct in question. Any kind of cognizance of an indescribable excess in the joy of the bath, any kind of ardour or thirst which perpetually impels the soul out of night into the morning, and out of gloom, out of ""affliction"" into clearness, brightness, depth, and refinement:—just as much as such a tendency DISTINGUISHES—it is a noble tendency—it also SEPARATES.—The pity of the saint is pity for the FILTH of the human, all-too-human. And there are grades and heights where pity itself is regarded by him as impurity, as filth." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"They have something of which they are proud. And what do they call that which makes them proud? Education they call it, it distinguishes them from goatherds. For that reason they hate to hear the word ‘contempt' applied to them. So I shall address their pride instead. Thus" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Sometimes just a stronger pair of glasses will cure an amorous man." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is out of the deepest depth that the highest must come to its height" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"L'ermite ne croit pas qu'un philosophe ait jamais exprimé ses opinions véritables et ultimes dans des livres : n'écrit-on pas des livres précisément pour cacher ce que l'on porte en soi ? Il doutera même qu'un philosophe puisse avoir de manière générale des opinions « ultimes et véritables », qu'il n'y ait pas de toute nécessité en lui, derrière toute caverne une autre caverne plus profonde. Un arrière-fond d'abîme derrière toute « fondation ». Toute philosophie est une philosophie de surface : il y a de l'arbitraire dans le fait qu'il se soit arrêté ici, ait regardé en arrière et alentour, qu'il n'ait pas creusé plus profondément ici et ait remisé sa bêche, il y a aussi de la méfiance là-dedans. Toute philosophie cache une philosophie ; toute opinion est aussi une cachette, toute parole est aussi un masque." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There is a lake that one day refused to flow away and threw up a dam at the place where it had before flowed out and since then this lake has always risen higher and higher. Perhaps the very act of renunciation provides us with the strength to bear it ; perhaps man will rise ever higher and higher when he no longer flows out into a God." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The impulse to justice without the power of judgment has been the cause of the greatest suffering to men." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One must have chaos and frenzy within oneself to give birth to a dancing star." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Man's complete lack of responsibility, for his behavior and for his nature, is the bitterest drop which the man of knowledge must swallow." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The fact that humanity knelt down before the opposite of the origin, the meaning, the right of the evangel, the fact that in the concept of ‘church', humanity canonized the very thing the ‘bearer of glad tidings' felt to be beneath him, behind him - you will not find a greater example of world-historical irony - -" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Fallacy, Fallacy. - He cannot rule himself; therefore that woman concludes that it will be easy to rule him, and throws out her lines to catch him;-the poor creature, who in a short time will be his slave." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Even the wisest among you is only a confusion and hybrid of plant and phantom. But do I ask you to become phantoms or plants?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Mult prea mult timp într-o femeie erau ascunşi un sclav şi un tiran. Iată de ce femeia nu-i în stare să fie prietenă: ea nu cunoaşte decât dragostea. In dragostea femeii se ascunde nedreptate şi orbire-mpotriva a tot ce nu iubeşte ea. Şi chiar şi-n dragostea cea ştiutoare a femeii se află-ntotdeauna, alături de lumină, surpriză, fulger şi-ntuneric." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"First principle: any explanation is better than none. Because it is at bottom only a question of wanting to get rid of oppressive ideas, one is not exactly particular about what means one uses to get rid of them: the first idea which explains that the unknown is in fact the known does so much good that one ‘holds it for true'. Proof by pleasure (‘by potency') as criterion of truth." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Thereafter Zarathustra went on again for two hours, trusting to the path and the light of the stars:" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Para todo el que sufre es un goce embriagador dejar de ver sus propios sufrimientos y olvidarse de sí mismo." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The great human being is a finale; the great age — the Renaissance, for example — is a finale. The genius, in work and deed, is necessarily a squanderer: that he squanders himself, that is his greatness! The instinct of self-preservation is suspended, as it were: the overpowering pressure of outflowing forces forbids him any such care or caution. People call this 'self-sacrifice' and praise his 'heroism,' his indifference to his own well-being, his devotion to an idea, a great cause, a fatherland: without exception, misunderstandings. He flows out, he overflows, he uses himself up, he does not spare himself — and this is a calamitous involuntary fatality, no less than a river's flooding the land. Yet, because much is owed to such explosives, much has also been given them in return: for example, a kind of higher morality. After all, that is the way of human gratitude: it misunderstands its benefactors." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Neither punishment nor reward is anything that comes to one as one's own; they are given from motives of usefulness, without one having a right to claim them. Hence we must say, ""The wise man gives no reward because the deed has been well done' just as we have said, ""The wise man does not punish because evil has been committed, but in order that evil shall not be committed"". If punishment and reward no longer existed, then the strongest motives which deter men from certain actions and impel them to certain other actions, would also no longer exist; the needs of mankind require their continuance; and inasmuch as punishment and reward, blame and praise, work most sensibly on vanity, the same need requires the continuance of vanity." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What language will such a spirit speak when it talks to itself alone?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Who has not for the sake of his reputation sacrificed himself?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Morality is a fiction used by a herd of inferior human beings to hold back the few superior ones..!!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Nietzsche was a Greek born two thousand years too late. His dreams were thoroughly Hellenic; his whole manner of thinking was Hellenic; his peculiar errors were Hellenic no less. But his Hellenism, I need not add, was anything but the pale neo-Platonism that has run like a thread through the thinking of the Western world since the days of the Christian Fathers. From Plato, to be sure, he got what all of us must get, but his real forefather was Heraclitus. It is in Heraclitus that one finds the germ of his primary view of the universe—a view, to wit, that sees it, not as moral phenomenon, but as mere aesthetic representation. The God that Nietzsche imagined, in the end, was not far from the God that such an artist as Joseph Conrad imagines—a supreme craftsman, ever experimenting, ever coming closer to an ideal balancing of lines and forces," -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Where the strongest natures are to be sought. The ruin and degeneration of the solitary species is much greater and more terrible: they have the instincts of the herd, and the tradition of values, against them; their weapons of defence, their instincts of self-preservation, are from the beginning insufficiently strong and reliable — fortune must be peculiarly favourable to them if they are to prosper (they prosper best in the lowest ranks and dregs of society; if ye are seeking personalities it is there that ye will find them with much greater certainty than in the middle classes!)When the dispute between ranks and classes, which aims at equality of rights, is almost settled, the fight will begin against the solitary person. (In a certain sense the latter can maintain and develop himself most easily in a democratic society: there where the coarser means of defence are no longer necessary, and a certain habit of order, honesty, justice, trust, is already a general condition.) The strongest must be most tightly bound, most strictly watched, laid in chains and supervised: this is the instinct of the herd. To them belongs a régime of self-mastery, of ascetic detachment, of 'duties' consisting in exhausting work, in which one can no longer call one's soul one's own." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"And if you cannot be saints of knowledge, then, I pray you, be at least its warriors. They are the companions and precursors of such saints." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Not through enmity does enmity come to an end; enmity comes to an end through friendship." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In the end it must be as it is and always has been: great things remain for the great, abysses for the profound, nuances and shudders for the refined, and, in brief, all that is rare for the rare." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Even concubinage has been corrupted — by marriage." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"لتقل كلمتك وتتحطم" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"So long as the spectator has to figure out the meaning of this or that person, or the presuppositions of this or that conflict of inclinations and purposes, he cannot become completely absorbed in the activities and sufferings of the chief characters or feel breathless pity and fear." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The Church and morality say, 'A race, a people is destroyed by vice and luxury.' My reconstituted reason says: when a people is perishing, physiologically degenerating, the effects of this are vice and luxury (that is, the need for stronger and stronger, more and more frequent stimuli, the kind of stimuli that are familiar to every exhausted nature)." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"For today the petty people have become lord and master: they all preach submission and acquiescence and prudence and diligence and consideration and the long et cetera of petty virtues." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The 'pure spirit' is a piece of pure stupidity: take away the nervous system and the senses, the so-called 'mortal shell,' and the rest is miscalculation—that is all!..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I say unto you: one must still have chaos in oneself to be able to give birth to a dancing star. I say unto you: you still have chaos in yourselves." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Where the strong are weak, and the noble all too mild—there it builds its disgusting nest: the parasite lives where the great have small wounded recesses." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The daring venture, the prolonged distrust, the cruel Nay, the tedium, the cutting-into-the-quick—how seldom do THESE come together! Out of such seed, however—is truth produced!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"He reacts slowly to every kind of stimulus, with that slowness which a protracted caution and a willed pride have bred in him – he tests an approaching stimulus, he is far from going out to meet it. He believes in neither ‘misfortune' nor in ‘guilt': he knows how to forget – he is strong enough for everything to have to turn out for the best for him. Very well, I am the opposite of a décadent: for I have just described myself." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A profession is the backbone of life." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Misunderstanding of the dream. In the ages of crude primeval culture man believed that in dreams he got to know another real world; here is the origin of all metaphysics." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Just as it is certain that one leaf is never totally the same as another, so it is certain that the concept ""leaf"" is formed by arbitrarily discarding these individual differences and by forgetting the distinguishing aspects. This awakens the idea that, in addition to the leaves, there exists in nature the ""leaf"": the original model according to which all the leaves were perhaps woven, sketched, measured, colored, curled, and painted--but by incompetent hands, so that no specimen has turned out to be a correct, trustworthy, and faithful likeness of the original model." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Los fisiólogos deberían pensárselo bien antes de afirmar que el instinto de autoconservación es el instinto cardinal de un ser orgánico. Algo vivo quiere, antes que nada, dar libre curso a su fuerza — la vida misma es voluntad de poder —: la autoconservación es tan sólo una de las consecuencias indirectas y más frecuentes de esto." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What is new, however, is always evil, being that which wants to conquer and overthrow the old boundary markers and the old pieties; and only what is old is good. The good men are in all ages those who dig the old thoughts, digging deep and getting them to bear fruit - the farmers of the spirit. But eventually all land is depleted, and the ploughshare of evil must come again and again." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Lucrurile supreme trebuie să aibă o altă origine, una proprie lor, - ele nu ar putea lua naştere din această lume efemeră, înşelătoare, iluzorie şi mizeră, din această harababură de amăgiri şi pofte!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Freedoers are at disadvantage compared with freethinkers because people suffer more obviously from the consequences of deeds than from those of thoughts." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"لم ننتج كفــــاية من الحـــــــب و الخير عــلي الارض كـــــي نصـــــدر منه لكــائنــــات خيـــاليــة و للمــــوتى" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"they would be astonished to discover the seriously German problem that we are dealing with, a vortex and a turning-point at the very centre of German hopes. But perhaps those same people will find it distasteful to see an aesthetic problem taken so seriously, if they can see art as nothing more than an entertaining irrelevance, an easily dispensable tinkle of bells next to the 'seriousness of life': as if no one was aware what this contrast with the 'seriousness of life' amounted to. Let these serious people know that I am convinced that art is the supreme task and the truly metaphysical activity of this life in the sense of that man, my noble champion on that path, to whom I dedicate this book." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Die Dummheit der Guten ist unergründlich klug." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Sometimes, teachers must be hard. People must be given a hard message because life is hard, and dying is hard," -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Our claim to superiority: we live in an age of Comparisons; we are able to calculate as men have never yet calculated; in every way we are history become self-conscious. We enjoy things in a different way; we suffer in a different way: our instinctive activity is the comparison of an enormous variety of things. We understand everything; we experience everything, we no longer have a hostile feeling left within us. However disastrous the results may be to ourselves, our plunging and almost lustful inquisitiveness, attacks, unabashed, the most dangerous of subjects . . . 'Everything is good' — it gives us pain to say 'nay' to anything. We suffer when we feel that we are sufficiently foolish to make a definite stand against anything . . . At bottom, it is we scholars who to-day are fulfilling Christ's teaching most thoroughly." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Todo lo que se hace por amor, se hace más allá del bien y del mal." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"First mark of the self-preservative instinct of the great psychologist: he never seeks himself, he has no eyes for himself, no interest or curiosity in himself" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A free life is still free for great souls. Verily, whoever possesses little is possessed that much less: praised be a little poverty!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"خاموش ترین کلام هایند که طوفان می زایند. اندیشه هایی که با گام کبوتر می آیند جهان را راهبری می کنند." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Whenever the truth is uncovered, the artist will always cling with rapt gaze to what still remains covering even after such uncovering; but the theoretical man enjoys and finds satisfaction in the discarded covering and finds the highest object of his pleasure in the process of an ever happy uncovering that succeeds through his own efforts." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Aşa grăieşte bufonul: «Relaţia cu oamenii corupe caracterul şi mai cu seamă când acesta îţi lipseşte.»" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"…art owes its continuous evolution to the Apollonian-Dionysian duality…. The two creative tendencies developed alongside one another, usually in fierce opposition, each by its taunts forcing the other to more energetic production, both perpetuating in a discordant concord the agony which the term art but feebly denominates: until at last, by the thaumaturgy (magic or miracle) of a Hellenic act of will, the pair accepted the yoke of marriage and, in this condition, begot Attic tragedy, which exhibits the salient feature of both parents." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The drive toward the formation of metaphors is the fundamental human drive, which one cannot for a single instant dispense with in thought, for one would thereby dispense with man himself." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There are losses which communicate a sublimity to the soul which makes it refrain from lamentation and go about in silence as though among tall black cypress-trees." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One has deprived becoming of its innocence if being in this or that state is traced back to will, to intentions, to accountable acts: the doctrine of will has been invented essentially for the purpose of punishment, that is of finding guilty." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Plato's objection to the older art--that it is the imitation of a phantom and hence belongs to a sphere even lower than the empirical world--could certainly not be directed against the new art; and so we find Plato endeavoring to transcend reality and to represent the idea which underlies this pseudo-reality." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is still a metaphysical faith upon which our faith in science rests—that even we knowers of today, we godless anti-metaphysicians, still take our fire, too, from the flame lit by the thousand-year-old faith, the Christian faith which was also Plato's faith, that God is truth; that truth is divine." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We hear only the questions to which we are capable of finding an answer." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When every tree can suddenly speak as a nymph, when a god in the shape of a bull can drag away maidens, when even the goddess Athena herself is suddenly seen in the company of Peisastratus driving through the market place of Athens with a beautiful team of horses - and this is what the honest Athenian believed - then, as in a dream, anything is possible at each moment, and all of nature swarms around man as it were nothing but a masquerade of the gods, who were merely amusing themselves by deceiving men in all these shapes." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Stay not where the lowlands are! Climb not into the sky! The world looks best by far when viewed from halfway high." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The civilized classes and nations are swept away by the grand rush for contemptible wealth. Never was the world worldlier, never was it emptier of love and goodness." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"E embora sejais elevados e de espécie superior, em vós encerram-se muitas coisas torcidas e disformes. Não há ferreiro no mundo capaz de vos reformar e endireitar." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"My wisdom consists in my having been many things and in many places in order to become one person—in order to be able to attain to one thing." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When one gives up the Christian faith, one pulls the right to Christian morality out from under one's feet. This morality is by no means self-evident: this point has to be exhibited again and again, despite the English flatheads. Christianity is a system, a whole view of things thought out together. By breaking one main concept out of it, the faith in God, one breaks the whole: nothing necessary remains in one's hands. Christianity presupposes that man does not know, cannot know, what is good for him, what evil: he believes in God, who alone knows it. Christian morality is a command; its origin is transcendent; it is beyond all criticism, all right to criticism; it has truth only if God is the truth—it stands and falls with faith in God.When the English actually believe that they know ""intuitively"" what is good and evil, when they therefore suppose that they no longer require Christianity as the guarantee of morality, we merely witness the effects of the dominion of the Christian value judgment and an expression of the strength and depth of this dominion: such that the origin of English morality has been forgotten, such that the very conditional character of its right to existence is no longer felt." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"For this remains as I have already pointed out the essential difference between the two religions of decadence : Buddhism promises nothing, but actually fulfils; Christianity promises everything, but fulfils nothing." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"saat cinta ataupun kebencia tidak berperan, tindaka perempuan akan biasabiasa saja" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The forumula of my happiness: a Yes, a No, a straight line, a goal." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Due to its lack of tranquillity, our civilisation is heading toward a new barbarism." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The Point of Honor in Deception.—In all great deceivers one thing is noteworthy, to which they owe their power. In the actual act of deception, with all their preparations, the dreadful voice, expression, and mien, in the midst of their effective scenery they are overcome by their belief in themselves; it is this, then, which speaks so wonderfully and persuasively to the spectators. The" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The intellect, as a means for the preservation of the individual, unfolds its chief powers in simulation; for this is the means by which the weaker, less robust individuals preserve themselves, since they are denied the chance of waging the struggle for existence with horns or the fangs of beasts of prey." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Due to the superficiality of our intellect, we do indeed live in one ongoing illusion: that means that in every moment we need art in order to live. Our eyes do not permit us to get beyond the . But if we ourselves are the ones who have gradually trained our eyes to do this, then we realize that an  holds sway within us. Thus, we see in nature itself mechanisms that protect against absolute : the  recognizes  and says: 'we need art' and 'we need only a limited amount of knowledge'." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Even the determination of what is healthy for your body depends on your goal, your horizon, your energies, your impulses, your errors, and above all on the ideals and phantasms of your soul." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"ويواجه المرء في كل مكان الحاجة إلى قلائد كلمات رنانة جديدة يعلقها في الحياة بحيث يمكن أن تمنحها نفحة إحتفالية صاخبة . الجميع يعرف هذا الوضع الغريب ، الذي تضغط فيه الذكريات المكدرة فجأة ، و كيف نبذل جهوداً كبيرة عن طريق الصخب و الإيماءات لطردها من عقولنا ؛ لكن صخب و ايماءات الحياة العادية تكشف أننا جميعاً نجد أنفسنا باستمرار في مثل هذا الوضع ، و أننا نعيش في خوف من الذكرى و من الإحساس الداخلي. لكن ماهذا الذي يقلقنا مراراً ، أيّ بعوض هذا الذي يمنعنا من النوم ؟ ثمة أرواح تحيط بنا ، كل لحظة من الحياة تريد أن تقول لنا شيئاً ، لكننا لا نريد الإصغاء أصوات الروح. عندما نكون وحيدين و هادئين نصبحح خائفين من أنّ شيئاً ما سيُهمس في آذننا، و لذا نكره السكينة و نخدّر أنفسفنا بالصحبة." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Todavía no eres libre, todavía buscas la libertad. Tu búsqueda te ha vuelto insomne y te ha desvelado demasiado. Quieres subir a la altura libre, tu alma tiene sed de estrellas. Pero también tus malos instintos tienen sed de libertad. Tus perros salvajes quieren libertad; ladran de placer en su cueva cuando tu espíritu se propone abrir todas las prisiones72." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Weakness is in demand—why?... mostly because people cannot be anything else than weak. Weakening considered a duty: The weakening of the desires, of the feelings of pleasure and of pain, of the will to power, of the will to pride, to property and to more property; weakening in the form of humility; weakening in the form of a belief; weakening in the form of repugnance and shame in the presence of all that is natural—in the form of a denial of life, in the form of illness and chronic feebleness; weakening in the form of a refusal to take revenge, to offer resistance, to become an enemy, and to show anger." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"لا تدكوا رؤسكم فى رمل الأشياء السماوية بعد الآن, بل ارفعوها بحرية رؤسا أرضية تبتدع معنى للأرض !" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is my fate to have to be the first decent human being. I have a terrible fear that I shall one day be pronounced holy." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Oh, that some one would save them from their Saviour!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Pascal is right to assert that if we had the same dream every night, we would be as engaged by it as we are by the things we see every day. 'If an artisan were sure of dreaming every night a full twelve hours that he was king, I believe,' says Pascal, 'he would be just as happy as a king who dreamed every night for twelve hours that he was an artisan." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I have gradually come to understand what every great philosophy until now has been: the confession of its author and a kind of involuntarily unconscious memoir." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"With all willing we are dealing simply with commanding and obeying, on the foundation... of a social structure of many ""souls"", which is why a philosopher should exercise the right to conceive willing itself under the horizon of morality: that is, morality understood as a doctrine of the power relations under which the phenomenon ""life"" emerges." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The means by which a strong species maintains itself: —It grants itself the right of exceptional actions, as a test of the power of self-control and of freedom.It abandons itself to states in which a man is not allowed to be anything else than a barbarian.It tries to acquire strength of will by every kind of asceticism.It is not expansive, it practises silence; it is cautious in regard to all charms.It learns to obey in such a way that obedience provides a test of self-maintenance. Casuistry is carried to its highest pitch in regard to points of honour.It never argues, 'What is sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander,' — but conversely! it regards reward, and the ability to repay, as a privilege, as a distinction.It does not covet other people's virtues." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What do you think most humane ?-To spare a person shame." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Truly, you understand the reverse art of alchemy, the depreciating of the most valuable things! Try, just for once, another recipe, in order not to realise as hitherto the opposite of what you mean to attain: deny those good things, withdraw from them the applause of the populace and discourage the spread of them, make them once more the concealed chastities of solitary souls, and say: morality is something forbidden! Perhaps you will thus attract to your cause the sort of men who are only of any account, I mean the heroic. But then there must be something formidable in it, and not as hitherto something disgusting!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The artist-philosopher. Higher concept of art. Whether a man can remove himself far enough from other men, in order to give them form. 1. the one who gives himself form, the hermit; 2, the artist hitherto, as the insigificant perfecter of a piece of raw material." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Without the pathos of distance, the sort which grows out of the deeply rooted difference between the social classes, out of the constant gazing outward and downward of the ruling caste on the subjects and work implements, and out of their equally sustained practice of obedience and command, holding down and holding at a distance, that other more mysterious pathos would have no chance of growing at all, that longing for an ever new widening of distances inside the soul itself, the development of ever higher, rarer, more distant, more expansive, more comprehensive states, in short, simply the enhancement in the type 'man,' the constant 'self-conquest of man,' to cite a moral formula in a supra-moral sense. Of course, where the history of the origins of aristocratic society is concerned (and thus the precondition for that raising of the type 'man' —), We should not surrender to humanitarian illusions: truth is hard. So without further consideration, let's admit to ourselves how up to this point every higher culture on earth has started! People with a still natural nature, barbarians in every dreadful sense of the word, predatory men still in possession of an unbroken power of the will and a desire for power, threw themselves on weaker, more civilized, more peaceful, perhaps trading or cattle-raising races, or on old, worn cultures, in which at that very moment the final forces of life were flaring up in a dazzling fireworks display of spirit and corruption. At the start the noble caste has always been the barbarian caste: its superiority has lain not primarily in physical might but in psychical power — it has been a matter of more COMPLETE human beings (which at every level also means 'more complete beasts')." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"But I suffer and have suffered with them: prisoners are they unto me, and stigmatised ones. He whom they call Saviour put them in fetters:— In fetters of false values and fatuous words! Oh, that some one would save them from their Saviour!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is hard to live with human beings, because keeping silent is so hard. Especially for one who is garrulous." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Short-sighted people are amorous. Sometimes just a stronger pair of glasses will cure an amorous man; and if someone had the power to imagine a face or form twenty years older, he might go through life quite undisturbed." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The mother of excess is not joy but joylessness" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Care-s singurele lucruri pe care le putem eterniza? Ah, numai cele care tocmai se ofilesc şi-ncep să-şi piardă parfumul! Ah, doar furtuni ce se îndepărtează vlăguite şi sentimente târzii, gălbejite! Ah, numai păsări ostenite de zbor, rătăcite-n zbor, păsări care se lasă prinse-n mână, - în mâna noastră! Noi imortalizăm cele ce nu mai au mult de trăit şi de zburat, numai lucruri istovite şi răscoapte! Şi numai pentru a putea picta după-amiaza voastră, voi, gânduri ale mele scrise şi pictate..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"أعظم المحتقرين هم أعظم المجلين" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"O happiness! O happiness! Wilt thou perhaps sing, O my soul? Thou liest in the grass. But this is the secret, solemn hour, when no shepherd playeth his pipe.Take care! Hot noontide sleepeth on the fields. Do not sing! Hush! The world is perfect.Do not sing, thou prairie-bird, my soul! Do not even whisper! Lo—hush! The old noontide sleepeth, it moveth its mouth: doth it not just now drink a drop of happiness——An old brown drop of golden happiness, golden wine? Something whisketh over it, its happiness laugheth. Thus—laugheth a God. Hush!""For happiness, how little sufficeth for happiness!"" Thus spoke I once and thought myself wise. But it was a blasphemy: that have I now learned. Wise fools speak better.The least thing precisely, the gentlest thing, the lightest thing, a lizard's rustling, a breath, a whisk, an eye-glance—little maketh up the best happiness. Hush!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is the fundamental idea of culture, insofar as it sets for each one of us but one task: to promote the production of the philosopher, the artist and the saint within us and without us and thereby to work at the perfecting of Nature... Only when, in our present or in some future incarnation, we ourselves have been taken into that exalted order of philosophers, artists and saints, shall we also be given a new goal for our love and hate." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One of the subtlest means of deceiving, at least as long as possible, and of successfully representing oneself to be stupider than one really is - which in everyday life is often as desirable as an umbrella,- is called ENTHUSIASM, including what belongs to it, for instance, virtue." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"This – is now my way: where is yours?' Thus I answered those who asked me ‘the way'. For the way – does not exist!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"For the indignant man, and he who perpetually tears and lacerates himself with his own teeth (or, in place of himself, the world, God, or society), may indeed, morally speaking, stand higher than the laughing and self-satisfied satyr, but in every other sense he is the more ordinary, more indifferent, and less instructive case. And no one is such a LIAR as the indignant man. 27." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"May heaven have mercy on the European intellect if one wanted to subtract the Jewish intellect from it." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Way to equality.—A few hours of mountain climbing turn a villain and a saint into two rather equal creatures. Exhaustion is the shortest way to equality and fraternity—and liberty is added eventually by sleep. 297" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"And even in woman's conscious love, there is still always surprise and lightning and night, along with the light." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The most spiritual people (assuming they are the bravest) experience by far the most painful tragedies: but this is precisely why they honour life, because it provides them with their greatest adversities." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Whoever does not know how to find the way to his ideal lives more frivolously and impudently than the man without an ideal." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Ah, where in the world have there been greater follies than with the pitiful? And what in the world hath caused more suffering than the follies of the pitiful?Woe unto all loving ones who have not an elevation which is above their pity!Thus spake the devil unto me, once on a time: ""Even God hath his hell: it is his love for man."" And lately, did I hear him say these words: ""God is dead: of his pity for man hath God died." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"لكم سئمت خيرى وشرى" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"to us consciousness, or 'the spirit,' appears as a symptom of a relative imperfection of the organism, as an experiment, a groping, a misunderstanding, as an affliction which uses up nervous force unnecessarily—we deny that anything can be done perfectly so long as it is done consciously. The 'pure spirit' is a piece of pure stupidity: take away the nervous system and the senses, the so-called 'mortal shell,' and the rest is miscalculation—that is all!..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"أى شأن لك فى سخريتهم ؟ إنك شخص قد نسى الطاعة, والآن عليك أن تأمر !" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In the main, I agree more with the artists than with any philosopher hitherto: they have not lost the scent of life, they have loved the things of 'this world'they have loved their senses. To strive for 'desensualization': that seems to me a misunderstanding or an illness or a cure, where it is not merely a hypocrisy or self-deception. I desire for myself and for all who live, may live, without being tormented by a puritanical conscience, an ever-greater spiritualization and multiplication of the senses; indeed, we should be grateful to the senses for their subtlety, plenitude and power and offer them in return the best we have in the way of spirit." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Excelsior! You will never again pray, never again repose in limitless trust - you deny it to yourself to remain halted before an ultimate wisdom, ultimate good, ultimate power, and there unharness your thoughts" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Refinement through degeneration.—History teaches that the most self-sustaining branch of a people will be the one where most individuals have a sense of community as a result of the similarity in their habitual and indiscussible principles, that is, as a result of their common beliefs. Here good, sound customs are strengthened, here the subordination of the individual is learned and character is already given steadiness as a gift at birth and has it afterward reinforced by upbringing. The danger for these strong communities based upon individuals who all share a similar character is a gradual increase in inherited stupidity, which trails all stability like its shadow. It is the more unconstrained, the much more uncertain and morally weaker individuals upon whom spiritual progress depends in such communities: these are the people who attempt new things and, in general, many different things. Because of their weakness, countless individuals of this kind perish without much visible effect; but in general, especially when they have descendants, they loosen things up and inflict from time to time a wound upon the stable element of a community. Precisely in this wounded and weakened spot, the collective being is inoculated, as it were, with something new; but its strength as a whole must be great enough to absorb this new thing into its blood and to assimilate it. Degenerate natures are of the highest significance wherever progress is to ensue. A partial weakening has to precede every large-scale advance. The strongest natures maintain the type; the weaker ones help to develop it further." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"O meu gosto, que é provavelmente a antítese de um gosto tolerante, está longe de o poder aprovar na totalidade: em geral, aprovar não está nos meus hábitos, prefiro contradizer ou até não dizer absolutamente nada... É o que eu faço em relação a culturas inteiras, em relação a livros,- e também a cidades e paisagens." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Among the enormous multiplicity of phenomena to be observed in an organic being, that part which becomes conscious is a mere means: and the particle of ""virtue,"" ""self abnegation,"" and other fanciful inventions, are denied in a most thoroughgoing manner by the whole of the remaining phenomena. We would do well to study our organism in all its immorality....The animal functions are, as a matter of fact, a million times more important than all beautiful states of the soul and heights of consciousness: the latter are an overflow, in so far as they are not needed as instruments in the service of the animal functions. The whole of conscious life: the spirit together with the soul, the heart, goodness, and virtue; in whose service does it work? In the greatest possible perfection of the means (for acquiring nourishment and advancement) serving the fundamental animal functions: above all, the ascent of the line of Life.That which is called ""flesh"" and ""body"" is of such incalculably greater importance, that the rest is nothing more than a small appurtenance. To continue the chain of life so that it becomes ever more powerful—that is the task.But now observe how the heart, the soul, virtue, and spirit together conspire formally to thwart this purpose: as if they were the object of every endeavour! ... The degeneration of life is essentially determined by the extraordinary fallibility of consciousness, which is held at bay least of all by the instincts, and thus commits the gravest and profoundest errors.Now could any more insane extravagance of vanity be imagined than to measure the value of existence according to the pleasant or unpleasant feelings of this consciousness? It is obviously only a means: and pleasant or unpleasant feelings are also no more than means.According to what standard is the objective value measured? According to the quantity of increased and more organised power alone." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Every company is bad company except that of one's equals." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The emergence of pessimistic philosophies is by no means asign of great and terrible misery. The emergence of pessimisticphilosophies is by no means a sign of great and terriblemisery. No, these question marks about the value of alllife are put up in ages in which the refinement andalleviation of existence make even the inevitable mosquitobites of the soul and the body seem much too bloody andmalignant and one is so poor in real experiences of painthat one would like to consider painful general ideas assuffering of the first order.There is a recipeagainst pessimistic philosophers and the excessive sensitivitythat seems to me the real ""misery of the present age""----but this recipe may sound too cruel and mightitself be counted among the signs that lead peopleto judge that ""existence is something evil.""Well, the recipe against this ""misery"" is: misery" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In practice it is death that works soseductively behind the image of its brother, sleep" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"But someday, in a stronger age than this decaying, self-doubting present, he must yet come to us, the redeeming man, of great love and contempt, the creative spirit whose compelling strength will not let him rest in any aloofness or any beyond, whose isolation is misunderstood by the people as if it were flight from reality — while it is only his absorption, immersion, penetration into reality, so that, when he one day emerges again into the light, he may bring home the redemption of this reality; it's redemption from the curse that the hitherto reigning ideal has laid upon it. The man of the future who will redeem us not only from the hitherto reigning ideal but also from that which was bound to grow out of it, great nausea, the will to nothingness, nihilism; this bell stroke of noon and of the great decision that liberates the will again and restores its goal to the earth and his hope to man; this Antichrist and anti-nihilist; this victor over God and nothingness — he must come one day." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"who knows that he is profound strives for clearness; he who would like to appear profound to the multitude strives for obscurity." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Of all that is written, I love only what a person hath written with his blood. Write with blood, and thou wilt find that blood is spirit. It" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The corruption of morals is a consequence of decadence (weakness of the will, need for strong stimuli)." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I must first go down deeper than ever I descended—deeper into pain than ever I descended, down into its blackest flood. Thus my destiny wants it….Whence come the highest mountains? I once asked. Then I learned that they came out of the sea. The evidence is written in their rocks and in the walls of their peaks. It is out of the deepest depth that the highest must come to its height" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Try to live as though it were morning" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What does man actually know about himself? Is he, indeed, ever able to perceive himself completely, as if laid out in a lighted display case? Does nature not conceal most things from him-even concerning his own body-in order to confine and lock him within a proud, deceptive consciousness, aloof from the coils of the bowels, the rapid flow of the blood stream, and the intricate quivering of the fibers! She threw away the key. And woe to that fatal curiosity which might one day have the power to peer out and down through a crack in the chamber of consciousness and then suspect that man is sustained in the indifference of his ignorance by that which is pitiless, greedy, insatiable, and murderous-as if hanging in dreams on the back of a tiger. Given this situation, where in the world could the drive for truth have come from? Insofar as the individual wants to maintain" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Sleep knocks on my eyes: they grow heavy. Sleep touches my mouth: it stays open.Truly, he comes to me on soft soles, the dearest of thieves, and steals my thoughts from me" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There is more wisdom in your body than in your best wisdom. And who then knows why your body needs precisely your best wisdom?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Дурные привычки в умозаключении. Самые ошибочные умозаключения людей суть следующие: вещь существует, следовательно, она имеет право на это. Здесь от жизнеспособности умозаключают к целесообразности и от целесообразности — к правомерности. Далее: такое-то мнение даёт счастье, следовательно, оно истинно; действие его хорошо, следовательно, оно само хорошо и истинно. Здесь действию приписывают предикат «приносящего счастье», хорошего в смысле полезности и затем переносят на причину тот же предикат хорошего, но уже в смысле логической правомерности. (42)" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Perhaps he even needs to have been a critic and a sceptic and a dogmatist and an historian, and in addition a poet and collector and traveller and puzzle-solver and moralist and seer and ‘free spirit' and nearly all things, so that he can traverse the range of human values and value-feelings and be able to look with many kinds of eyes and consciences from the heights into every distance, from the depths into every height, from the corners into every wide expanse." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Only by means of the petrification and coagulation of a mass of images which originally streamed from the primal faculty of human imagination like a fiery liquid, only in the invincible faith that this sun, this window, this table is a truth in itself, in short, only by forgetting that he himself is an artistically creating subject, does man live with any repose, security, and consistency. If but for an instant he could escape from the prison walls of this faith, his ""self consciousness"" would be immediately destroyed. It is even a difficult thing for him to admit to himself that the insect or the bird perceives an entirely different world from the one that man does, and that the question of which of these perceptions of the world is the more correct one is quite meaningless, for this would have to have been decided previously in accordance with the criterion of the correct perception, which means, in accordance with a criterion which is not available." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Humanity does not strive for happiness; only the English do." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To be sure, the belief that these ideas, the accompanying occurrences in the consciousness, were causes is also brought up by the memory. Thus there arises an habituation to a certain causal interpretation which in truth obstructs and even prohibits an investigation of the cause." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Let the youthful soul look back on life with the question: what have you truly loved up to now, what has elevated your soul, what has mastered it and at the same time delighted it? Place these venerated objects before you in a row, and perhaps they will yield for you, through their nature and their sequence, a law, the fundamental law of your true self…for your true nature lies, not hidden deep within you, but immeasurably high above you, or at least above that which you normally take to be yourself." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In spite of all the value which may belong to the true, the positive, and the unselfish, it might be possible that a higher and more fundamental value for life generally should be assigned to pretence, to the will to delusion, to selfishness, and cupidity. It might even be possible that WHAT constitutes the value of those good and respected things, consists precisely in their being insidiously related, knotted, and crocheted to these evil and apparently opposed things—perhaps even in being essentially identical with them." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"After such a cheerful commencement, a serious word would like to be heard; it appeals to the most serious. Take care, philosophers and friends, of knowledge, and beware of martyrdom! Of suffering 'for the truth's sake'! Even of defending yourselves! It spoils all the innocence and fine neutrality of your conscience; it makes you headstrong against objections and red rags; it stupefies, animalizes, and brutalizes when in the struggle with danger, slander, suspicion, expulsion, and even worse consequences of hostility, you have to pose as protectors of truth upon earth—as though 'the truth' were such an innocuous and incompetent creature as to require protectors!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"¿Qué es la felicidad? El sentimiento de lo que acrece el poder; elsentimiento de haber superado una resistencia." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"best thing in a great victory is that it deprives the conqueror of the fear of defeat." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Thus the esthetically sensitive man stands in the same relation to the reality of dreams as the philosopher does to the reality of existence; he is a close and willing observer, for these pictures afford him an interpretation of life, and it is by these processes that he trains himself for life. And it is not only the agreeable and friendly picture that he experiences in himself with such perfect understanding: but the serious, the troubled, the sad, the gloomy, the sudden restraints, the tricks of fate, the uneasy presentiments, in short, the whole DIVINE COMEDY of life, and the inferno, also pass before him, not like mere shadows in the wall - for in these scenes he lives and suffers - and yet without that fleeting sensation of appearance." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"At the moment when anyone begins to take philosophy seriously, all the world believes the opposite.'—Human, All Too Human, 'Assorted Opinions and Maxims," -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The higher philosophical man has solitude not because he wishes to be alone, but because he is something that finds no equals." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Regarding a woman, for example, those men who are more modest consider the mere use of the body and sexual gratification a sufficient and satisfying sign of 'having,' of possession. Another type, with a more suspicious and demanding thirst for possession, sees the 'question mark,' the illusory quality of such 'having' and wants subtler tests, above all in order to know whether the woman does not only give herself to him but also gives up for his sake what she has or would like to have: only then does she seem to him 'possessed.' A third type, however, does not reach the end of his mistrust and desire for having even so: he asks himself whether the woman, when she gives up everything for him, does not possibly do this for a phantom of him. He wants to be known deep down, abysmally deep down, before he is capable of being loved at all; he dares to let himself be fathomed. He feels that his beloved is fully in his possession only when she no longer deceives herself about him, when she loves him just as much for his devilry and hidden insatiability as for his graciousness, patience, and spirituality.One type wants to possess a people—and all the higher arts of a Cagliostro and Catiline suit him to that purpose. Someone else, with a more subtle thirst for possession, says to himself: 'One may not deceive where one wants to possess.' The idea that a mask of him might command the heart of the people irritates him and makes him impatient: 'So I must let myself be known, and first must know myself." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The least step forward in the domain of free thought and individual life has been achieved in all ages to the accompaniment of physical and intellectual tortures: and not only the mere step forward, no! but every form of movement and change has rendered necessary innumerable martyrs, throughout the entire course of thousands of years which sought their paths and laid down their foundation-stones, years, however, which we do not think of when we speak about 'world-history,' that ridiculously small division of mankind's existence. And even in this so-called world-history, which in the main is merely a great deal of noise about the latest novelties, there is no more important theme than the old, old tragedy of the martyrs who tried to move the mire." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There is no true scholar who has not the instincts of a true soldier in his veins. To be able to command and to be able to obey in a proud fashion; to keep one's place in rank and file, and yet to be ready at any moment to lead; to prefer danger to comfort; not to weigh what is permitted and what is forbidden in a tradesman's balance; to be more hostile to pettiness, slyness, and parasitism than to wickedness. What is is that one learns in a hard school? To obey and to command." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What do you believe in? — In this: that the weight of all things must be determined anew" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In warring against stupidity, the most just and gentle of men at last become brutal." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"ان ممارستى الحربية تتلخص فى اربعة مبادئ اولا : لا أهاجم إلا ما هو جلبة للنصر ثانيا : لا أهاجم إلا ما لا حليف لى عليه حيث اقف فى المعركة وحيدا ثالثا : لا أهاجم البتة الاشخاص كأشخاص رابعا : لا أهاجم إلا ما هو خال من كل خلاف شخصى" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A arte é o grande estimulante da vida" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Evil people don't have songs.'13—How is it that the Russians have songs?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"سحابة ثقيلة تأتى من المشفقين فكونوا على حذر أيها البشر !" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To speak about oneself not at all is a very refined form of hypocrisy." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I make for my goal, I follow my course; over the loitering and tardy will I leap. Thus let my on-going be their down-going!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Men were thought of as ‘free' so that they could become guilty: consequently, every action had to be thought of as willed, the origin of every action as lying in the consciousness" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"TO RECOGNISE UNTRUTH AS A CONDITION OF LIFE; that is certainly to impugn the traditional ideas of value in a dangerous manner, and a philosophy which ventures to do so, has thereby alone placed itself beyond good and evil." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"...Worship of the genius is an echo of this reverence for gods and princes. Wherever one endeavours to elevate individual men to the superhuman, the tendency also exists to imagine whole classes of people as rougher and more base than they really are." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To translate man back into nature, to become master over the many vain and overly enthusiastic interpretations and connotations that have so far been scrawled and painted over that eternal basic text of homo natura; to see to it that the human being henceforth stands before human beings as even today, hardened in the discipline of science, he stands before the rest of nature, with intrepid Oedipus eyes and sealed Odysseus ears, deaf to the siren songs of old metaphysical bird catchers who have been piping at him all too long, ""you are more, you are higher, you are of a different origin""—that may be a strange and insane task, but it is a task —who would deny that?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What is love? What is creation? What is longing? What is a star?' the last man asks, and he blinks.""Formerly all the world was insane,"" say the subtlest of them, and they blink.'We have invented happiness,' say the last men, and they blink." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Judgements, judgements of value concening life, for it or against it, can, in the end, never be true: they have value only as symptoms, they are worthy of consideration only as symptoms; in themselves such judgments are stupidities" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We are alien to each other, and their virtues are even more repugnant to my taste than their falsehoods and false dice." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A tragic ending for knowledge.  Of all the means of producing exaltation, it has been human sacrifice which has at all times most exalted and elevated man. And perhaps every other endeavour could still be thrown down by one tremendous idea, so that it would achieve victory over the most victorious  the idea of self-sacrificing mankind. But to whom should mankind sacrifice itself?. One could already take one's oath that, if ever the constellation of this idea appears above the horizon, the knowledge of truth would remain as the one tremendous goal commensurate with such a sacrifice, because for this goal no sacrifice is too great. In the meantime, the problem of the extent to which mankind can as a whole take steps towards the advancement of knowledge has never yet been posed; not to speak of what drive to knowledge could drive mankind to the point of dying with the light of an anticipatory wisdom in its eyes. Perhaps, if one day an alliance has been established with the inhabitants of other stars for the purpose of knowledge, and knowledge has been communicated from star to star for a few millennia: perhaps enthusiasm for knowledge may then rise to such a high-water mark!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Observe how children weep and cry, so that they will be pitied, how they wait for the moment when their condition will be noticed, Or live among the ill and depressed, and question whether their eloquent laments and whimpering, the spectacle of their misfortune, is not basically aimed at hurting those present. The pity that the spectators then express consoles the weak and suffering, inasmuch as they see that, despite all their weakness, they still have at least one power: the power to hurt." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"If I wished to shake this tree with my hands, I should not be able to do so.But the wind, which we do not see, troubles and bends it as it lists. We are worst bent and troubled by invisible hands." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is true: we love life, not because we are used to living, but because we are used to loving. There is always some madness in love. But there is always also some reason in madness." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Hunger attacks me,"" said Zarathustra, ""like a robber. Among forests and swamps my hunger attacks me, and late in the night." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Much will have been gained for aesthetics once we have succeeded in apprehending directly — rather than merely ascertaining — that art owes its continuous evolution to the Apollinian-Dionysian duality, even as the propagation of the species depends on the duality of the sexes, their constant conflicts and periodic acts of reconciliation. I have borrowed my adjectives from the Greeks, who developed their mystical doctrines of art through plausible embodiments, not through purely conceptual means. It is by those two art sponsoring deities, Apollo and Dionysus, that we are made to recognize the tremendous split, as regards both origins and objectives, between the plastic, Apollinian arts and the nonvisual art of music inspired by Dionysus. The two creative tendencies developed alongside one another, usually in fierce opposition, each by its taunts forcing the other to more energetic production, both perpetuating in a discordant concord that agon which the term art but feebly denominates: until at last, by the thaumaturgy of an Hellenic act of will, the pair accepted the yoke of marriage and, in this condition, begot Attic tragedy, which exhibits the salient features of both parents." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Whenever you reach a decision, close your ears to even the best objections: this is the sign of a strong character. Which means: an occasional will to stupidity." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What is truth?' retorted Pilate. jn 18,38Must I add that, in the whole New Testament, there appears but a solitary figure worthy of honour? Pilate, the Roman viceroy. To regard a Jewish imbroglio seriously—that was quite beyond him. One Jew more or less—what did it matter?... The noble scorn of a Roman, before whom the word 'truth' was shamelessly mishandled, enriched the New Testament with the only saying that has any value—and that is at once its criticism and its destruction: 'What is truth?..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"ولتحذر أيضا إندفاعات محبتّك ! إن المتوحد يمد يده بسرعة لكل من يعترضه" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"¿Queréis vivir «según la naturaleza»? ¡Oh nobles estoicos, qué embuste de palabras! Imaginaos un ser como la naturaleza, que es derrochadora sin medida, indiferente sin medida, que carece de intenciones y miramientos, de piedad y justicia, que es feraz y estéril e incierta al mismo tiempo, imaginaos la indiferencia misma como poder — ¿cómo podríais vivir vosotros según esa indiferencia? Vivir — ¿no es cabalmente un querer—ser—distinto de esa naturaleza? ¿Vivir no es evaluar, preferir, ser injusto, ser limitado, querer—serdiferente? Y suponiendo que vuestro imperativo «vivir según la naturaleza» signifique en el fondo lo mismo que «vivir según la vida» — ¿cómo podríais no vivir así? ¿Para qué convertir en un principio aquello que vosotros mismos sois y tenéis que ser? — En verdad, las cosas son completamente distintas: ¡mientras simuláis leer embelesados el canon de vuestra ley en la naturaleza, lo que queréis es algo opuesto, vosotros extraños comediantes y engañadores de vosotros mismos! Vuestro orgullo quiere prescribir e incorporar a la naturaleza, incluso a la naturaleza, vuestra moral, vuestro ideal, vosotros exigís que ella sea naturaleza «según la Estoa» y quisierais hacer que toda existencia existiese tan sólo a imagen vuestra — ¡cual una gigantesca y eterna glorificación y generalización del estoicismo! Pese a todo vuestro amor a la verdad, os coaccionáis a vosotros mismos, sin embargo, durante tanto tiempo, tan obstinadamente, con tal fijeza hipnótica, a ver la naturaleza de un modo falso, es decir, de un modo estoico, que ya no sois capaces de verla de otro modo, — y cierta soberbia abismal acaba infundiéndoos incluso la insensata esperanza de que, porque vosotros sepáis tiranizaros a vosotros mismos — estoicismo es tiranía de sí mismo —, también la naturaleza se deja tiranizar; ¿no es, en efecto, el estoico un fragmento de la naturaleza?... Pero ésta es una historia vieja, eterna: lo que en aquel tiempo ocurrió con los estoicos sigue ocurriendo hoy tan pronto como una filosofía comienza a creer en sí misma. Siempre crea el mundo a su imagen, no puede actuar de otro modo; la filosofía es ese instinto tiránico mismo, la más espiritual voluntad de poder, de «crear el mundo», de ser causa prima [causa primera]." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One must be a sea, to receive a polluted stream without becoming impure.'― Friedrich Nietzsche, Thus Spoke Zarathustra" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"This is the manner of noble souls: they do not want to have anything for nothing; least of all, life. Whoever is of the mob wants to live for nothing; we others, however, to whom life gave itself, we always think about what we might best give in return. And verily, that is a noble speech which says, 'What life promises us, we ourselves want to keep to life.' One shall not wish to enjoy where one does not give joy. And one shall not  to enjoy! For enjoyment and innocence are the most bashful things: both do not want to be sought. One shall  them – but rather  even guilt and suffering." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"No one is simply a painter anymore. They are all archaeologists, psychologists and partisans of a particular culture or theory. They enjoy our erudition and our philosophy and like us they are full, perhaps to excess, with a treasure-trove of half-baked and rather unremarkable ideas. They like form- not for what it is but because of what it might represent. They are the children of generation tormented by their learning, a thousand miles away from the Old Masters who never read, instead being content to provide a feast for the eye." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"And again, there are those who sit in their swamp and speak thus from the rushes: 'Virtue - that means to sit quietly in the swamp.We bite nobody and avoid him who wants to bite: and in everything we hold the opinion that is given us." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A nation goes to pieces when it confounds its duty with the general concept of duty. Nothing works a more complete and penetrating disaster than every ""impersonal"" duty, every sacrifice before the Moloch of abstraction." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Revaluation of all values!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When one gives up Christian belief one thereby deprives oneself of the right to Christian morality. For the latter is absolutely not self-evident: one must make this point clear again and again, in spite of English shallowpates." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The genius, in work and deed, is necessarily a squanderer: he squanders himself. That is his greatness! … He flows out, he overflows, he uses himself up, he does not spare himself—and this is a calamitous involuntary fatality, no less than a river's flooding the land." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Are we immoralists doing harm to virtue?—Just as little as the anarchists are harming the princes. Only since the princes have been shot at have they been sitting securely on their thrones again. Moral: one must take shots at morality." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The poison from which the weaker nature perishes strengthens the strong man - and he does not call it poison." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"كنتم قرّدة ذات يوم, وإلى الآن مايزال الإنسان أكثر قردّية من أىّ قرد" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The Circe of mankind, morality, has falsified all psychologica to its very foundations - has moralized it - to the point of the frightful absurdity that love is supposed to be 'unegoistic' . . . One has to be firmly set upon oneself, one has to stand bravely upon one's own two legs, otherwise, one can not love at all." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There is nowadays, throughout almost the whole of Europe, a sickly irritability and sensitiveness towards pain, and also a repulsive irrestrainableness in complaining, an effeminizing, which, with the aid of religion and philosophical nonsense, seeks to deck itself out as something superior—there is a regular cult of suffering." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Certainly one quality which nowadays has been best forgotten—and that is why it will take some time yet for my writings to become readable—is essential in order to practise reading as an art—a quality for the exercise of which it is necessary to be a cow, and under no circumstances a modern man!—rumination.   SILS-MARIA, UPPER ENGADINE, July, 1887." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Zarathustra has become a child, an awakened one" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Cuando quieren elevarse, ustedes miran hacia arriba; yo miro hacia abajo porque ya me encuentro en las alturas" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"All that is proper to man, however, is faith in the attainable truth, in the ever approaching, confidence-inspiring illusion. Does he not in fact live by constant deception? Doesn't nature conceal virtually everything from him, even what is nearest, for example, his own body, of which he has only a spurious 'consciousness""? He is locked up in this consciousness, and nature has thrown away the key." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"All great things bring about their own destruction through an act of self-overcoming: thus the law of life will have it, the law of the necessity of ""self-overcoming"" in the nature of life—the lawgiver himself eventually receives the call: ""patere legem, quam ipse tulisti"" [submit to the law you yourself proposed]. In this way Christianity as a dogma was destroyed by its own morality; in the same way Christianity as morality must now perish too: we stand on the threshold of this event. After Christian truthfulness has drawn one inference after another, it must end by drawing its most striking inference, its inference against itself; this will happen, however, when it poses the question, ""what is the meaning of all will to truth?"" . . . And here I again touch on my problem, on our problem [ . . . ]: what meaning would our whole being possess if it were not this, that in us the will to truth becomes conscious of itself as a problem? . . . As the will to truth thus gains self-consciousness, from now on—there is no doubt about it—morality will go to ruin: this is the great spectacle in a hundred acts reserved for the next two centuries in Europe—the most terrible, most questionable, and perhaps also the most hopeful of spectacles." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Nu viaţa veşnică e importantă, ci veşnica însufleţire." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Works, first and foremost! That is to say, doing, doing, doing! The 'faith' that goes with it will soon put in an appearance - you can be sure of that!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There are only necessities: there is no one who commands, no one who obeys, no one who transgresses. Once you know there are no purposes, you also know there is no accident; for only against a world of purposes does the word 'accident' have a meaning." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"If there is something to pardon in everything, there is also something to condemn" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In this condition one enriches everything out of one's own abundance: what one sees, what one desires, one sees swollen, pressing, strong, over laden with energy. The man in this condition transforms things until they mirror his power - until they are reflections of his perfections" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"How difficult it is to live when one feels that the judgment of many millenniums is around one and against one." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"B: But why, then, do you write? - A: Well, my friend, I say this in confidence: until now I have found no other means of getting rid of my thoughts. (part 2- 93)" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is a trick of Christianity to teach the utter worthlessness, sinfulness, and despicableness of man in general so loudly that disdain for one's fellow men becomes impossible." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To what extent the machine abases us. - The machine is impersonal, it deprives the piece of work of its pride, of the individual goodness and faultiness that adheres to all work done by a machine - that is to say, of its little bit of humanity. In earlier times all purchasing from artisans was a bestowing of a distinction on individuals, and the things with which we surrounded ourselves were the insignia of these distinctions: household furniture and clothing thus became symbols of mutual esteem and personal solidarity, whereas we now seem to live in the midst of nothing but anonymous and impersonal slavery. - We must not purchase the alleviation of work at too high price." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"ما بیشتر دلباخته ی اشتیاقیم تا دلباخته ی آنچه اشتیاقمان را برانگیخته است." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Coming to power is a costly business: power makes stupid.… The Germans – once they were called the nation of thinkers: do they still think at all? Nowadays the Germans are bored with intellect, the Germans mistrust intellect, politics devours all seriousness for really intellectual things" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"بين بنى الإنسان يمضى العارف مضيّة بين البهائم" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"History belongs, above all, to the active and powerful man, the man who fights one great battle, who needs the exemplary men, teachers, and comforters and cannot find them among his contemporary companions. Thus, history belongs to Schiller: for our age is so bad, said Goethe, that the poet no longer encounters any useful nature in the human life surrounding him. Looking back to the active men, Polybius calls political history an example of the right preparation for ruling a state and the most outstanding teacher, something which, through the memory of other people's accidents, advises us to bear with resolution the changes in our happiness. Anyone who has learned to recognize the sense of history in this way must get annoyed to see inquisitive travellers or painstaking micrologists climbing all over the pyramids of the great things of the past. There, in the place where he finds the stimulation to breath deeply and to make things better, he does not wish to come across an idler who strolls around, greedy for distraction or stimulation, as among the accumulated art treasures of a gallery.In order not to despair and feel disgust in the midst of weak and hopeless idlers, surrounded by apparently active, but really only agitated and fidgeting companions, the active man looks behind him and interrupts the path to his goal to take a momentary deep breath. His purpose is some happiness or other, perhaps not his own, often that of a people or of humanity collectively. He runs back away from resignation and uses history as a way of fighting resignation. For the most part, no reward beckons him on, other than fame, that is, becoming a candidate for an honoured place in the temple of history, where he himself can be, in his turn, a teacher, consoler, and advisor for those who come later." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The development of speech and the development of consciousness (not of reason, but of reason becoming self-conscious) go hand in hand. Let it be further accepted that it is not only speech that serves as a bridge between man and man, but also the looks, the pressure and the gestures; our becoming conscious of our sense impressions, our power of being able to fix them, and as it were to locate them outside of ourselves, has increased in proportion as the necessity has increased for communicating them to others by means of signs. The sign-inventing man is at the same time the man who is always more acutely self-conscious; it is only as a social animal that man has learned to become conscious of himself, - he is doing so still, and doing so more and more. - As is obvious, my idea is that consciousness does not properly belong to the individual existence of man, but rather to the social and gregarious nature in him; that, as follows therefrom, it is only in relation to communal and gregarious utility that it is finely developed; and that consequently each of us, in spite of the best intention of understanding himself as individually as possible, and of ""knowing himself,"" will always just call into consciousness the non-individual in him, namely, his ""averageness""; - that our thought itself is continuously as it were outvoted by the character of consciousness - by the imperious ""genius of the species"" therein - and is translated back into the perspective of the herd." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When I came to men, then found I them resting on an old infatuation: all of them thought they had long known what was good and bad for men." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Unconditional love also includes—the ardent desire to be abused: at that point it is a defiance directed against itself, and out of its devotion the very wish for self-annihilation finally arises: ""Drown in this sea!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"ما من ظاهرلت أخلاقية البتّة، بل ثمة تأويل أخلاقي لظاهرات ما وحسب." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"... a thing can only live through a pious illusion." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Morality as it has hitherto been understood- and formulated by Schopenhauer, lastly, as 'denial of the will to life' is the decadence instinct itself making an imperative out of itself: it says 'perish!' - it is the judgement of the condemned..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A soul that knows it is loved but does not itself love betrays its sediment: what is at bottom comes up.""―Epigrams and Interludes, Section 79" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"هل أنت عبد؟ إنك لا تستطيع أن تكون صديقا إذا. هل أنت طاغية؟ لا يمكن أن يكون لك أصدقاء إذا.داخل المرأة كان هناك دوما عبد و طاغية متسترين.لذلك ما تزال المرأة غير قادرة على الصداقة: إنها لا تعرف سوى الحب.في حب المرأة هناك ظلم و عماء تجاه كل من لا تحبه. و حتى داخل الحب الواعي للمرأة هناك دوما هجوم مباغث و صاعقة و ليل إلى جانب النور.ما تزال المرأة غير قادرة على الصداقة: قططا ما تزال النساء و عصافير. (....)غير قادرة بعد على الصداقة ما تزال المرأة. لكن قولوا لي أنتم، أيها الرجال من منكم قادر على الحب إذن؟" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"today?—'I don't know either the way out or the way in; I am whatever doesn't know either the way out or the way in'—so sighs the man of today.... This is the sort of modernity that made us ill,—we sickened on lazy peace, cowardly compro mise, the whole virtuous dirtiness of the modern Yea and Nay. This tolerance and largeur of the heart that 'forgives' everything because it 'understands' everything is a sirocco to us. Rather live amid the ice than among modern virtues and other" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Another form on sagacity and self-defence consists in reacting as seldom as possible and withdrawing from situations and relationships in which one would be condemned as it were to suspend ones 'freedom', ones initiative, and become a mere reagent." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Another ideal runs ahead of us, a strange, tempting, dangerous ideal to which we should not wish to persuade anybody because we do not readily concede the right to it to anyone: the ideal of a spirit who plays naively - that is, not deliberately but from overflowing power and abundance - with all that was hitherto called holy, good, untouchable, divine; for whom those supreme things that the people naturally accept as their value standards, signify danger, decay, debasement, or at least recreation, blindness, and temporary self-oblivion; the ideal of a human, superhuman well-being and benevolence that will often appear inhuman - for example, when it confronts all earthly seriousness so far, all solemnity in gesture, word, tone, eye, morality, and task so far, as if it were their most incarnate and involuntary parody - and in spite of all of this, it is perhaps only with that great seriousness really begins, that the real question mark is posed for the first time, that the destiny of the soul changes, the hand moves forward, the tragedy begins." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A nihilist is a man who judges that the real world ought not to be, and that the world as it ought to be does not exist. According to this view, our existence (action, suffering, willing, feeling) has no meaning: this 'in vain' is the nihilists' pathos—an inconsistency on the part of the nihilists." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Hat man sein Warum des Lebens, so verträgt man sich fast mit jedem Wie. Der Mensch strebt nicht nach Glück; nur der Engländer tut das." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"And others are proud of their modicum of righteousness, and for the sake of it do violence to all things: so that the world is drowned in their unrighteousness." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Preparatory human beings. — I welcome all signs that a more virile, warlike age is about to begin, which will restore honor to courage above all! For this age shall prepare the way for one yet higher, and it shall gather the strength that this higher age will require some day — the age that will carry heroism into the search for knowledge and that will wage wars for the sake of ideas and their consequences." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"إن التاريخ قائم كليا على هؤلاء الناس السيئين الذين يكرسون أناسا صالحين فيما بعد" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"This- is now my way,- where is yours?"" Thus did I answer those who asked me ""the way."" For the way- it does not exist!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Would you go into isolation, my brother? would you seek the way toyourself? Tarry yet a little and listen to me.""He who seeks may easily get lost himself. All isolation is wrong"": sosay the herd. And long did you belong to the herd.The voice of the herd will still echo in you. And when you say, ""I haveno longer a conscience in common with you,"" then will it be a plaint anda pain.Behold, that pain itself did the same conscience produce; and the lastgleam of that conscience still glows on your affliction.But you would go the way of your affliction, which is the way to yourself? Then show me your authority and your strength to do so!Are you a new strength and a new authority? A first motion? A self-rolling wheel? Can you also compel stars to revolve around you?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Naked have I seen both ofthem, the greatest man and the smallest man. All too similar are they still to each other. Verily, even thegreatest found I all too human." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"How reluctant later generations will be to have anything to do with the relics of an era ruled, not by living men, but by pseudo-men dominated by public opinion." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"You desire to live ""according to Nature""? Oh, you noble Stoics, what fraud of words! Imagine to yourselves a being like Nature, boundlessly extravagant, boundlessly indifferent, without purpose or consideration, without pity or justice, at once fruitful and barren and uncertain: imagine to yourselves indifference as a power—how could you live in accordance with such indifference? To live—is not that just endeavouring to be otherwise than this Nature? Is not living valuing, preferring, being unjust, being limited, endeavouring to be different? And granted that your imperative, ""living according to Nature,"" means actually the same as ""living according to life""—how could you do differently? Why should you make a principle out of what you yourselves are, and must be? In reality, however, it is quite otherwise with you: while you pretend to read with rapture the canon of your law in Nature, you want something quite the contrary, you extraordinary stage-players and self-deluders! In your pride you wish to dictate your morals and ideals to Nature, to Nature herself, and to incorporate them therein; you insist that it shall be Nature ""according to the Stoa,"" and would like everything to be made after your own image, as a vast, eternal glorification and generalism of Stoicism! With all your love for truth, you have forced yourselves so long, so persistently, and with such hypnotic rigidity to see Nature falsely, that is to say, Stoically, that you are no longer able to see it otherwise—and to crown all, some unfathomable superciliousness gives you the Bedlamite hope that because you are able to tyrannize over yourselves—Stoicism is self-tyranny—Nature will also allow herself to be tyrannized over: is not the Stoic a PART of Nature?... But this is an old and everlasting story: what happened in old times with the Stoics still happens today, as soon as ever a philosophy begins to believe in itself. It always creates the world in its own image; it cannot do otherwise; philosophy is this tyrannical impulse itself, the most spiritual Will to Power, the will to ""creation of the world,"" the will to the causa prima. 10." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"والغبطة أعمق من آلام القلب" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In disrespecting, we show that we still mantain a sense of respect." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A: But why this solitude? - B: I am not at odds with anyone. But when I am alone I seem to see my friends in a clearer and fairer light than when I am with them; and when I loved and appreciated music the most, I lived far from it. It seems I need a distant perspective if I am to think well of things." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Wherever authority is still part of accepted usage and one does not ‘give reasons' but commands, the dialectician is a kind of buffoon: he is laughed at, he is not taken seriously. – Socrates was the buffoon who got himself taken seriously: what was really happening when that happened?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Truth...a mobile army of metaphors." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What is done out of love always takes place beyond good and evil." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Only a person of deep faith can afford the luxury of skepticism." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Life is the will to power; our natural desire to dominate and reshape the world to fit our own preferences and assert our personal strength to the fullest degree." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I do indeed find the ""cruelty of Nature"" which is so often referred to; but in a different place: Nature is cruel, but against her lucky and well-constituted children; she protects and shelters and loves the lowly." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"we immoralists especially are trying with all our might to remove the concept of guilt and the concept of punishment from the world and to purge psychology, history, nature, the social institutions and sanctions of them," -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To sacrifice God for nothingness—this paradoxical mystery of the ultimate cruelty has been reserved for the rising generation; we all know something thereof already." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Kada dugo gledaš u bezdan tada bezdan krene gledati u tebe" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"This is simply the long history of the origin of responsibility. That task of breeding an animal which can make promises, includes, as we have already grasped, as its condition and preliminary, the more immediate task of first making man to a certain extent, necessitated, uniform, like among his like, regular, and consequently calculable. The immense work of what I have called, ""morality of custom"", the actual work of man on himself during the longest period of the human race, his whole prehistoric work, finds its meaning, its great justification (in spite of all its innate hardness, despotism, stupidity, and idiocy) in this fact: man, with the help of the morality of customs and of social strait-waistcoats, was made genuinely calculable. If, however, we place ourselves at the end of this colossal process, at the point where the tree finally matures its fruits, when society and its morality of custom finally bring to light that to which it was only the means, then do we find as the ripest fruit on its tree the sovereign individual, that resembles only himself, that has got loose from the morality of custom, the autonomous ""super-moral"" individual (for ""autonomous"" and ""moral"" are mutually-exclusive terms),—in short, the man of the personal, long, and independent will, competent to promise, and we find in him a proud consciousness (vibrating in every fibre), of what has been at last achieved and become vivified in him, a genuine consciousness of power and freedom, a feeling of human perfection in general. And this man who has grown to freedom, who is really competent to promise, this lord of the free will, this sovereign—how is it possible for him not to know how great is his superiority over everything incapable of binding itself by promises, or of being its own security, how great is the trust, the awe, the reverence that he awakes—he ""deserves"" all three—not to know that with this mastery over himself he is necessarily also given the mastery over circumstances, over nature, over all creatures with shorter wills, less reliable characters? The ""free"" man, the owner of a long unbreakable will, finds in this possession his standard of value: looking out from himself upon the others, he honours or he despises, and just as necessarily as he honours his peers, the strong and the reliable (those who can bind themselves by promises),—that is, every one who promises like a sovereign, with difficulty, rarely and slowly, who is sparing with his trusts but confers honour by the very fact of trusting, who gives his word as something that can be relied on, because he knows himself strong enough to keep it even in the teeth of disasters, even in the ""teeth of fate,""—so with equal necessity will he have the heel of his foot ready for the lean and empty jackasses, who promise when they have no business to do so, and his rod of chastisement ready for the liar, who already breaks his word at the very minute when it is on his lips. The proud knowledge of the extraordinary privilege of responsibility, the consciousness of this rare freedom, of this power over himself and over fate, has sunk right down to his innermost depths, and has become an instinct, a dominating instinct—what name will he give to it, to this dominating instinct, if he needs to have a word for it? But there is no doubt about it—the sovereign man calls it his conscience." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Anti-theses.- The most senile thing ever thought about man is contained in the celebrated saying 'the ego is always hateful'; the most childish is the even more celebrated 'love thy neighbor as thyself'. - In the former, knowledge of human nature has ceased, in the latter it has not yet even begun." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"If there is to be art, if there is to be any aesthetic doing and seeing, one physiological condition is indispensable: frenzy." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Dionysus versus 'Christ'; here you have the contrast. It is not a difference in regard to the martyrdom, — but the latter has a different meaning. Life itself — Life's eternal fruitfulness and recurrence caused anguish, destruction, and the will to annihilation. In the other case, the suffering of the 'Christ as the Innocent One' stands as an objection against Life, it is the formula of Life's condemnation. — Readers will guess that the problem concerns the meaning of suffering; whether a Christian or a tragic meaning is given to it. In the first case it is the road to a holy type of existence; in the second case existence itself is regarded as sufficiently holy to justify an enormous amount of suffering. The tragic man says yes even to the most excruciating suffering: he is sufficiently strong, rich, and capable of deifying, to be able to do this; the Christian denies even the happy lots on earth: he is weak, poor, and disinherited enough to suffer from life in any form. God on the Cross is a curse upon Life, a signpost directing people to deliver themselves from it; — Dionysus cut into pieces is a promise of Life: it will be forever born anew and rise afresh from destruction." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The cult of the madman is also always the cult of him who is rich in vitality, and who is a powerful man." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There is no eternal justice." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"215. As in the stellar firmament there are sometimes two suns which determine the path of one planet, and in certain cases suns of different colours shine around a single planet, now with red light, now with green, and then simultaneously illumine and flood it with motley colours: so we modern men, owing to the complicated mechanism of our ""firmament,"" are determined by DIFFERENT moralities; our actions shine alternately in different colours, and are seldom unequivocal—and there are often cases, also, in which our actions are MOTLEY-COLOURED." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Religion is a form of gratitude. One is grateful for oneself: and this is why one needs a God." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"If you crush a cockroach, you're a hero. If you crush a beautiful butterfly, you're a villain. Morals have aesthetic criteria." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Bad men have no songs'.* – How is it the Russians have songs?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Und wenn du lange genug in einen Abgrund blickst, blickt der Abgrund auch in dich hinein." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I do not believe that an 'impulseto knowledge' is the father of philosophy; but that another impulse, here as elsewhere, has only made use of knowledge (and mistaken knowledge!) as an instrument.But whoever considers the fundamental impulses of man with a view to determining how far they may have here acted as INSPIRING GENII (or as demons and cobolds), will find that they have all practiced philosophy at one time or another, and that each one of them would have been only too glad to look upon itself as the ultimate end of existence and the legitimate LORD over all the other impulses." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"That the world is not striving toward a stable condition is the only thing that has been proved. Consequently, one must conceive its climatic conditions in such a way that it is not a condition of equilibrium." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What to do in order to believe?'—an absurd question. What is wrong with Christianity is that it refrains from doing all those things that Christ commanded should be done." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"La fe no transporta las montañas, sino que coloca montañas donde no las hay." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"...For action has no sense. It merely binds one to existence. All existence, however, has no sense. Evil is interpreted as that which leads to irrationalism: to the affirmation of means whose end is denied. A road to nonentity is the desideratum, hence all emotional impulses are regarded with horror." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"You love your virtue as the mother her child; but when was it heard of a mother wanting to be paid for her love?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To love those who despise us, and to give one's hand to the phantom who tries to frighten us?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"My formula for greatness in a human being is amor fati: that one wants nothing to be different, not forward, not backward, not in all eternity. Not merely bear what is necessary, still less conceal it — all idealism is mendaciousness in the face of what is necessary — but love it." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Nu cunosc un alt fel de a duce la îndeplinire ţeluri mari decât jocul; aceasta este, ca indiciu al măreţiei, o premisă esenţială. Cea mai mică constrângere, un chip întunecat, o nota dură în voce sunt toate obiecţii ce se îndreaptă împotriva unui om, şi cu mult mai mult împotriva operei sale!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Virtue has all the instincts of the average man against it: it is unprofitable, imprudent, it isolates; it is related to passion and not very accessible to reason; it spoils the character, the head, the mind — according to the standards of mediocre men; it rouses to enmity toward order, toward the lies that are concealed in every order, institution, actuality — it is the worst of vices, if one judges by its harmful effects on others." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"How Rhythm Beautifies.- Rhythm casts a veil over reality; it causes various artificiality's of speech and obscurities of thought; by the shadow it throws upon thought it sometimes conceals it, and sometimes brings it into prominence. As shadow is necessary to beauty, so the 'dull' is necessary to lucidity. Art makes the aspect of life endurable by throwing over it the veil of obscure thought." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is hard to live with human beings because being silent is so hard." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"لا شيطان هناك ولا حجيم, وإن روحك يسرع إليها الموت قبل جسدك, فلا تخش شيئا إذا" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"How pleasant is the sound of even bad music and bad motives when we are setting out to march against an enemy!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"If we train our conscience, it will kiss us at the very moment it bites us" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"He who has perceived the material out of which the Promethean tragic writers prior to Euripides formed their heroes, and how remote from their purpose it was to bring the faithful mask of reality onto the stage, will also be aware of the utterly opposite tendency of Euripides. Through him the everyday man forced his way from the spectators' seats onto the stage; the mirror in which formerly only grand and bold traits were represented now showed the painful fidelity that conscientiously reproduces even the botched outlines of nature." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The bright image projections of the Sophoclean hero--in short, the Apollinian aspect of the mask--are necessary effects of a glance into the inside and terrors of nature; as it were, luminous spots to cure eyes damaged by gruesome night. Only in this sense may we believe that we properly comprehend the serious and important concept of ""Greek cheerfulness."" The misunderstanding of this concept as cheerfulness in a state of unendangered comfort is, of course, encountered everywhere today." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"that which does not kill him makes him stronger." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Thereby men do not flee from being deceived as much as from being damaged by deception: what they hate at this stage is basically not the deception but the bad, hostile consequences of certain kinds of deceptions. In a similarly limited way man wants the truth: he desires the agreeable life-preserving consequences of truth, but he is indifferent to pure knowledge, which has no consequences; he is even hostile to possibly damaging and destructive truths." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"El cristianismo quiere dominar sobre animales de presa: su procedimiento es convertirlos en enfermos; el debilitamiento es la receta cristiana para la domesticación, para la civilización." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Ah, ye brethren, that God whom I created was human work and human madness, like all the Gods!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Could it be possible! This old saint in the forest hath not yet heard of it, that GOD IS DEAD!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"With rope-ladders learned I to reach many a window, with nimble legs did I climb high masts: to sit on high masts of perception seemed to me no small bliss; To flicker like small flames on high masts: a small light, certainly, but a great comfort to cast-away sailors and shipwrecked ones!By diverse ways and wendings did I arrive at my truth; not by one ladder did I mount to the height where mine eye roveth into my remoteness. And unwillingly only did I ask my way - that was always counter to my taste! Rather did I question and test the ways themselves. A testing and a questioning hath been all my travelling: and verily, one must also learn to answer such questioning! That, however - is my taste: Neither a good nor a bad taste, but my taste, of which I have no longer either shame or secrecy.""This is now my way - where is yours?"" Thus did I answer those who asked me ""the way."" For ""the way"" - it doth not exist!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Man träumt gar nicht, oder interessant -- Man muss lernen, ebeson zu wachen: -- gar nicht, oder interessant" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When your sight has become good enough to see the bottom of the dark well of your being and knowing, you may also see in its mirror the distant constellations of future cultures." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Life is a flat circle." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"من يريد أن يظل نقيا بين البشر عليه أن يعرف كيف يغتسل بالمياه القذرة أيضا" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Already even politics ceases to be the business of a gentleman ; and it is possible that one day it may be found to be so vulgar as to be brought, like all party literature and daily literature, under the rubric : "" Prostitution of the intellect." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"[...] let us go with all our ""devils"" to the help of our ""god""!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What? You search? You would multiply yourself by ten, by a hundred? You seek followers? Seek zeros!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Man, however, is the most courageous animal: thereby has he overcome every animal. With sound of triumph has he overcome every pain; human pain, however, is the sorest pain." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"لا أريد أن أكون قديسا , بل أفضل أن أكون مهرجا ولعلنى بالفعل أضحوكة ." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The modern, noisy, time-engrossing, conceited, foolishly proud laboriousness educates and prepares for 'unbelief' more than anything else." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Our age, as much as it speaks of economics, is in fact a squanderer: it squanders the most precious thing there is, the spirit." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Only those who continue to change remain my kin" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What is it that we combat in Christianity? That it aims at destroying the strong, at breaking their spirit, at exploiting their moments of weariness and debility, at converting proud assurance into anxiety and conscience trouble; that it knows how to poison the noblest instincts and to infect them with disease until their strength, their will to power, turns inwards, against themselves — until the strong perish from excessive self contempt and self-immolation: that gruesome way of perishing" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The god on the cross is a curse on life, a signpost to seek redemption from life; Dionysus cut to pieces is a promise of life: it will be eternally reborn and return from destruction." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"do not belong to those who only get their thoughts from books, or at the prompting of books,-it is our custom to think in the open air, walking, leaping, climbing, or dancing on lonesome mountains by preference, or close to the sea, where even the paths become thoughtful." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Honest things, like honest men, do not have to explain themselves so openly. What must first be proved is worth little." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The hatred directed against the privileged in body and spirit: the revolt of the ugly and bungled souls against the beautiful, the proud, and the cheerful. The weapons used: contempt of beauty, of pride, of happiness: 'There is no such thing as merit,' 'The danger is enormous: it is right that one should tremble and feel ill at ease,' 'Naturalness is evil; it is right to oppose all that is natural — even 'reason' (all that is antinatural is elevated to the highest place).It is again the priests who exploit this condition, and who win the 'people' over to themselves. 'The sinner' over whom there is more joy in heaven than over 'the just person.' This is the struggle against 'paganism' (the pang of conscience, a measure for disturbing the harmony of the soul).The hatred of the mediocre for the exceptions, and of the herd for its independent members. (Custom actually regarded as 'morality.' The revulsion of feeling against 'egotism': that only is worth anything which is done 'for another.' 'We are all equal'; — against the love of dominion, against 'dominion' in general; — against privilege;—against sectarians, free-spirits, and sceptics; — against philosophy (a force opposing mechanical and automatic instincts); in philosophers themselves — 'the categorical imperative,' the essential nature of morality, 'general and universal." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I see many soldiers; could I but see many warriors!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"If I point to the use of revolutionary ideas in the service of self-seeking, stateless money-aristocracy as a dangerous characteristic of the contemporary political scene, and if, at the same time, I regard the massive spread of liberal optimism as a result of the fact that the modern money economy has fallen into strange hands, and if I view all social evils, including the inevitable decline of the arts, as either sprouting from that root or enmeshed with it: then you will just have to excuse me if I occasionally sing a paean to war." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Аз не съм човек, а динамит" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Oh, como somos felizes, nós que procuramos o conhecimento, se não quebrarmos o silêncio prematuramente!..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Every past, however, is worth condemning—for that is how matters happen to stand with human affairs: human violence and weakness have always contributed strongly to shaping them." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There are people who are opposed to all philosophy and one does well to listen to them." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Preaching morals is as easy as giving reasons for morals is difficult" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Let us not underestimate this fact: that we ourselves, we free spirits, are already a 'transvaluation of all values,' a visualized declaration of war and victory against all the old concepts of 'true' and 'not true. The most valuable intuitions are the last to be attained; the most valuable of all are those which determine methods. All the methods, all the principles of the scientific spirit of today, were the targets for thousands of years of the most profound contempt; if a man inclined to them he was excluded from the society of 'decent' people — he passed as 'an enemy of God,' as a scoffer at the truth, as one 'possessed." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The more abstract the truth you wish to teach, the more must you allure the senses to it." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"synthetic judgments a priori should not ""be possible"" at all; we have no right to them; in our mouths they are nothing but false judgments." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The most serious Christians have always been well disposed towards me. I myself, an opponent of Christianity - de rigueur, am far from bearing a grudge against the individual for what is the fatality of millennia." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Here the intellectual cynicism of the Jew almost counterbalances his social unpleasantness." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"the illusion of the artistic rendering of a nerve stimulus into images is, if not the mother, then at least the grandmother of every concept. In" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A living thing seeks above all to DISCHARGE its strength—life itself is WILL TO POWER; self-preservation is only one of the indirect and most frequent RESULTS thereof." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The Good ManBetter an enmity from one blockthan friendship held together by glue." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Many a man fails to become a thinker for the sole reason that his memory is too good." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"You will not get the crowd to cry Hosanna until you ride into town on an ass." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Since humanity came into being, man hath enjoyed himself too little: that alone, my brethren, is our original sin." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We see that science also rests on faith; there is simply no science ""without presuppositions" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The great works are produced in such an ecstasy of love that they must always be unworthy of it, however great their worth otherwise." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"سياج على حافة النهر أنا : ليمسك بي من استطاع أن يلمسني !لكنّني لست عكازًا تتوكؤون عليه." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"WHEN Zarathustra was thirty years old, he left his home and the lake of his home, and went into the mountains. There he enjoyed his spirit and his solitude, and for ten years did not weary of it. But finally he had a change of heart - and rising one morning with the dawn, he went before the sun, and spoke thus to it:" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Hold the capacity of feeling to be the most important and elemental, as providing the foundation for every sound and real growth; everything that is truly great and human." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is true we love life; not because we are wont to live, but because weare wont to love.There is always some madness in love. But there is always, also, somemethod in madness.And to me also, who appreciate life, the butterflies, and soap-bubbles, andwhatever is like them amongst us, seem most to enjoy happiness" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Christianity, as a product of the resentment of the botched and the weak, has put in ban all that is beautiful, strong, proud, and powerful, in fact all the qualities resulting from strength, and that, in consequence, all forces which tend to promote or elevate life have been seriously undermined." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I am a yea-sayer." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We are primordially illogical and hence unjust beings and can recognise this fact: this is one of the greatest and most baffling discords of existence." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Ах! Винаги малцина са те, чието сърце има трайна смелост и дързост; а на такива и духът остава търпелив. Останалите са малодушни. Останалите: те са винаги мнозинството, всекидневието, излишъкът, много-и-премногото - тия всички са малодушни!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"God's only excuse is that he does not exist." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"You have no idea what a charming memory you are to me." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Science has this in common with art, that the most ordinary, everyday thing appears to it as something entirely new and attractive, as if metamorphosed by witchcraft and now seen for the first time. Life is worth living, says art, the beautiful temptress; life is worth knowing, says science. With this contrast the so heartrending and dogmatic tradition follows" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Of all that is written, I love only what a person hath written with his blood. Write with blood, and thou wilt find that blood is spirit. It is no easy task to understand unfamiliar blood; I hate the reading idlers. He who knoweth the reader, doeth nothing more for the reader. Another century of readers—and spirit itself will stink. Every one being allowed to learn to read, ruineth in the long run not only writing but also thinking. Once spirit was God, then it became man, and now it even becometh populace. He that writeth in blood and proverbs doth not want to be read, but learnt by heart." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Knowledge, taken up to excess without hunger, even in opposition to any need, now works no longer as something which reorganizes, a motivation driving outwards. It stays hidden in a certain chaotic inner world, which that modern man describes with a strange pride as an 'Inwardness' peculiar to him. Thus, people say that we have the content and that only the form is lacking. But with respect to everything alive this is a totally improper contradiction. For our modern culture is not alive, simply because it does let itself be understood without that contradiction; that is, it is really no true culture, but only a way of knowing about culture. There remain in it thoughts of culture, feelings of culture, but no cultural imperatives come from it. In contrast to this, what really motivates and moves outward into action then often amounts to not much more than a trivial convention, a pathetic imitation, or even a raw grimace. At that point the inner feeling is probably asleep, like the snake which has swallowed an entire rabbit and then lies down contentedly still in the sunlight and avoids all movements other than the most essential." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I shall say another word for the most select ears: what I really want from music. That it be cheerful and profound like an afternoon in October. That it be individual, frolicsome, tender, a sweet small woman full of beastliness and charm. I" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Behold how each of your virtues is covetous of the highest place; each wants your whole spirit to be her herald, it wants your whole power, in wrath, hatred, and love." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Nothing is beautiful, only people are beautiful: all aesthetics is based on this naïveté, this is its first truth.Let us immediately add its second: the only thing ugly is a degenerating person, - this defines the realm of aesthetic judgment." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Man is a rope stretched between the animal and Superman – a rope over an abyss – a dangerous crossing, a dangerous wayfaring, a dangerous looking back, a dangerous trembling and halting. What is great in man is that he is a bridge and not a goal; what is lovably in man is that he is an over-doing and a down-going… I love those who do not first seek a reason beyond the stars for going down and being sacrifices, but sacrifice themselves to the earth, that the earth of the Superman many hereafter arrive." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I pass through this people and keep mine eyes open: they do not forgive me for do not envying their virtues. They bite at me, because I say unto them that for small people, small virtues are necessary - and because it is hard for me to understand that small people are necessary!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Men of profound thought appear to themselves in intercourse with others like comedians, for in order to be understood they must always simulate superficiality." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"These wisest men of all ages should be scrutinized closely. Were they all perhaps shaky on their legs? Tottery? Decadent? Late? Could it be that wisdom appears on earth as a Raven, attracted by a little whiff of carrion?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I set apart with high reverence the name of Heraclitus. When the rest of the philosopher crowd rejected the evidence of the senses because these showed plurality and change, he rejected their evidence because they showed things as if they possessed duration and unity." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"the one who had lost the world attains its own world" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In my dream, in my last morning-dream, I stood today on a promontory— beyond the world; I held a pair of scales, and weighed the world.""Alas, that the rosy dawn came too early to me: she glowed me awake, the jealous one! Jealous is she always of the glows of my morning-dream." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"الآن يرقص إله من خلالى" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Can you furnish yourself with your own good and evil and hang up your own will above yourself as a law? Can you be judge of yourself and avenger of your law? It is terrible to be alone with the judge and avenger of one's law. It is to be like a star thrown forth into empty space and into the icy breath of solitude." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The formation of a herd is a significant victory and advance in the struggle against depression." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"لكم هى مقززة عبارة فضيلة وهى تسرى على أفواههم" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"من يريد أن يقتل قتلا جذريا لابد أن يضحك" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"If, however, thou hast a suffering friend, then be a resting-place for his suffering; like a hard bed, however, a camp-bed: thus wilt thou serve him best.And if a friend doeth thee wrong, then say: ""I forgive thee what thou hast done unto me; that thou hast done it unto THYSELF, however--how could I forgive that!""Thus speaketh all great love: it surpasseth even forgiveness and pity.One should hold fast one's heart; for when one letteth it go, how quickly doth one's head run away!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Stând printre oameni te dezveţi de oameni: prea vrea să iasă fiecare la vedere — şi-atunci la ce-ţi mai pot sluji ochii pătrunzători, scurmând în zare? Chiar când cu toţii mă nesocoteau, eu ca nebunul îi cruţam mai mult pe ei decât pe mine: eram obişnuit să fiu cu mine însumi aspru şi-adeseori mă răzbunam pe mine pentru această-ngăduinţă faţă de ei. Pişcat de muşte veninoase şi găurit, asemeni unei pietre, de picăturile de răutate, aşa-mi duceam viaţa printre ei şi căutam să mă conving zicându-mi: «Nevinovat este nimicul de propria-i nimicnicie.»" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Species do not grow more perfect: the weaker dominate the strong again and again - the reason being they are the great majority, and they are also cleverer.... Darwin forgot the mind (- that in English): the weak possess more mind. ... To acquire mind one must need mind - one loses it when one no longer needs it. He who possesses strength divests himself of mind." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To estimate what a type of man is worth, one must calculate the price paid for his preservation — one must know the conditions of his existence." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"استمرار والدین: ناهماهنگی هایحل ناشده میان شخصیت ها و امیال والدین در سرشت کودک منعکس می شود و سرگذشت رنج های درونی او را بنیاد می کند." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Enough," -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Woman! One-half of mankind is weak, typically sick, changeable, inconstant... she needs a religion of weakness that glorifies being weak, loving, and being humble as divine: or better, she makes the strong weak--she rules when she succeeds in overcoming the strong... Woman has always conspired with the types of decadence, the priests, against the 'powerful', the 'strong', the men." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Do we smell nothing as yet of the divine decomposition? Gods, too, decompose. God is dead. God remains dead. And we have killed him." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Whoever approaches these Olympians with another religion in his heart, searching among them for moral elevation, even for sanctity, for disincarnate spirituality, for charity and benevolence, will soon be forced to turn his back on them, discouraged and disappointed. For there is nothing here that suggests asceticism, spirituality, or duty. We hear nothing but the accents of an exuberant, triumphant life in which all things, whether good or evil, are deified." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"[The philistine] sternly segregates the ‘serious things in life' – that is to say profession, business, wife and child — from its pleasures: and to the latter belongs more or less everything that has to do with culture. Therefore woe to an art that starts to take itself seriously and makes demands that touch upon his livelihood, his business and his habits, his philistine ‘serious things in life' — he averts his eyes from such an art as though from something indecent, and with the air of a duenna he warns every defenceless virtue not to look." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Verhasst ist mir das Folgen und das Führen.Gehorchen? Nein! Und aber nein -Regieren!Wer sich nicht schrecklich ist, machtNiemand Schrecken:Und nur wer Schrecken macht, kann Andre führen.Verhasst ist mir's schon, selber mich zuführen!Ich liebe es, gleich Wald- undMeeresthieren,Mich für ein gutes Weilchen zu verlieren,In holder Irrniss grüblerisch zu hocken, Von ferne her mich endlich heimzulocken,Mich selber zu mir selber - zu verführen." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Whoever fights monsters should see to it that in the process he does not become a monster" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Nihilism, a normal condition.It may be a sign of strength; spiritual vigour may have increased to such an extent that the goals toward which man has marched hitherto (the ""convictions,"" articles of faith) are no longer suited to it (for a faith generally expresses the exigencies of the conditions of existence, a submission to the authority of an order of things which conduces to the prosperity, the growth and power of a living creature ...); on the other hand, a sign of insufficient strength, to fix a goal, a ""wherefore,"" and a faith for itself.It reaches its maximum of relative strength, as a powerful destructive force, in the form of active Nihilism.Its opposite would be weary Nihilism, which no longer attacks: its most renowned form being Buddhism: as passive Nihilism, a sign of weakness: spiritual strength may be fatigued, exhausted, so that the goals and values which have prevailed hitherto are no longer suited to it and are no longer believed in—so that the synthesis of values and goals (upon which every strong culture stands) [Pg 22]decomposes, and the different values contend with one another: Disintegration, then everything which is relieving, which heals, becalms, or stupefies, steps into the foreground under the cover of various disguises, either religious, moral, political or æsthetic, etc." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"People who go through many spiritual changes retain some views and habits from earlier stages, which then jut out into their new thinking and acting like a bit of inexplicable antiquity and gray stonework, often ornamenting the whole region." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When one is young, one venerates and despises without that art of nuances which constitutes the best gain of life, and it is only fair that one has to pay dearly for having assaulted men and things in this manner with Yes and No." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"At times, one can win clever people over to a principle merely by presenting it in the form of an outrageous paradox." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"kalau diinjak cacing akan bergelung. ini cerdik. dengan demikian berkurangnya peluang diinjak lagi. dalam bahasa moral: tahu diri" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What is the ape to man? A laughing-stock, a thing of shame. And just the same shall man be to the Superman: a laughing-stock, a thing of shame." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"First, one has the difficulty of emancipating oneself from one's chains; and, ultimately, one has to emancipate oneself from this emancipation too." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"That which does not kill us makes us stronger.' ― Friedrich Nietzsche" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"This world, the eternally imperfect, an eternal contradiction's image and imperfect image—an intoxicating joy to its imperfect creator:—thus did the world once seem to me." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"If I make up the definition of a mammal, and then, after inspecting a camel, declare ""look, a mammal' I have indeed brought a truth to light in this way, but it is a truth of limited value. That is to say, it is a thoroughly anthropomorphic truth which contains not a single point which would be ""true in itself"" or really and universally valid apart from man. At bottom, what the investigator of such truths is seeking is only the metamorphosis of the world into man." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"believe that severity, violence, slavery, danger in the street and in the heart, secrecy, stoicism, tempter's art and devilry of every kind,—that everything wicked, terrible, tyrannical, predatory, and serpentine in man, serves as well for the elevation of the human species as its opposite" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"مالى والسوق ورعاع السوق وصخب الرعاع والأذنين الطويلتين للرعاع" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Greatness of character consists in having one's feelings under control. And even without any pleasure in this restraint, but merely because." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The man consummatig his life dies his death triumphantly,surrounded by men filled with hope and making solmn vows, thus one should learn to die.Friedrich Nietzsche - thus spoke zarathustra." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We do not dispute what is magical or irrational when it flatters our self-esteem." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Pe cine urăşte oare femeia cel mai mult? — Aşa grăit-a fierul către magnet: «Pe tine te urăsc cel mai mult, căci tu m-atragi, însă nu eşti destul de tare să mă ţii.»" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The philosopher seeks to hear within himself the echoes of the world symphony and to re-project them in the form of concepts. While he is contemplative-perceptive like the artist, compassionate like the religious, a seeker of purposes and causalities like the scientist, even while he feels himself swelling into a macrocosm, he all the while retains a certain self-possession, a way of viewing himself coldly as a mirror of the world. This is the same sense of self-possession which characterizes the dramatic artist who transforms himself into alien bodies and talks with their alien tongues and yet can project this transformation into written verse that exists in the outside world on its own. What verse is for the poet, dialectical thinking is for the philosopher. He grasps for it in order to get hold of his own enchantment, in order to perpetuate it." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"فليس قدرك ان تكون منشّة لطرد الذباب" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"cinta mengungkapkan kualitaskualitas besar dan tersembunyi dari pencintanya--apa yang langka dan merupakan perkecualian dari dirinya: dalam artian bahwa cinta menyembunyikan apa yang biasabiasa saja" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"أن يحتضن الإنسان في نفسه كل ما للإنسانية من أقدم القديم و مستجد الجديد ، وكل ما لها من خسارات و آمال و فتوحات و انتصارات ، أن يجمع كل هذه الأشياء في نفس واحدة ويلاصق بينها في شعور مُوحد ، فذلك ما ينبغي أن يولد سعادة لم يعرف الإنسان مثيلاً لها من قبل - سعادة إلهية ممتلئة قوة و محبة ، ومفعمة دموعاً و ممتلئةً ضحكاً ، سعادة شبيهة بالشمس ساعة الغروب تواصل الهبات من معين ثروتها الذي لا ينضب تقذف بفيض ضيائها في البحر ، وكيف تشعرر بنفسها عندها .. وعندها فقط أكثر ثراءً و هي ترى إلى أفقر الصيادين يدفع هو أيضاً قارباً من ذهب هذا الشعور الإلهي هو ما يسمى إذاً : إنسانية" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"And do ye know what 'the universe' is to my mind? Shall I show it to you in my mirror? This universe is a monster of energy, without beginning or end; a fixed and brazen quantity of energy which grows neither bigger nor smaller, which does not consume itself, but only alters its face; as a whole its bulk is immutable, it is a household without either losses or gains, but likewise without increase and without sources of revenue, surrounded by nonentity as by a frontier. It is nothing vague or wasteful, it does not stretch into infinity; but is a definite quantum of energy located in limited space, and not in space which would be anywhere empty. It is rather energy everywhere, the play of forces and force-waves, at the same time one and many, agglomerating here and diminishing there, a sea of forces storming and raging in itself, for ever changing, for ever rolling back over incalculable ages to recurrence, with an ebb and flow of its forms, producing the most complicated things out of the most simple structures; producing the most ardent, most savage, and most contradictory things out of the quietest, most rigid, and most frozen material, and then returning from multifariousness to uniformity, from the play of contradictions back into the delight of consonance, saying yea unto itself, even in this homogeneity of its courses and ages; for ever blessing itself as something which recurs for all eternity, — a becoming which knows not satiety, or disgust, or weariness: — this, my Dionysian world of eternal self-creation, of eternal self-destruction, this mysterious world of twofold voluptuousness; this, my 'Beyond Good and Evil,' without aim, unless there is an aim in the bliss of the circle, without will, unless a ring must by nature keep goodwill to itself, — would you have a name for my world? A solution of all your riddles? Do ye also want a light, ye most concealed, strongest and most" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I teach the No to all that makes weak—that exhausts. I teach the Yes to all that strengthens, that stores up strength, that pride." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"On the ""intellectual conscience."" — Nothing seems rarer to me today than genuine hypocrisy. I greatly suspect that the soft air of our culture is insalubrious for this plant. Hypocrisy belongs in the ages of strong faith when, even though constrained to display another faith, one did not abandon one's own faith. Today one does abandon it; or, even more commonly, one adds a second faith — and in either case one remains honest. Without a doubt, a very much greater number of convictions is possible today than formerly: ""possible"" means permissible, which means harmless. This begets tolerance toward oneself.Tolerance toward oneself permits several convictions and they get along with each other: they are careful, like all the rest of the world, not to compromise themselves. How does one compromise oneself today? If one is consistent. If one proceeds in a straight line. If one is not ambiguous enough to permit five conflicting interpretations. If one is genuine.I fear greatly that modern man is simply too comfortable for some vices, so that they die out by default. All evil that is a function of a strong will — and perhaps there is no evil without strength of will — degenerates into virtue in our tepid air. The few hypocrites whom I have met imitated hypocrisy: like almost every tenth person today, they were actors." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What alone can our teaching be? – That no one gives a human being his qualities: not God, not society, not his parents or ancestors, not he himself (– the nonsensical idea here last rejected was propounded, as ‘intelligible freedom', by Kant, and perhaps also by Plato before him). No one is accountable for existing at all, or for being constituted as he is, or for living in the circumstances and surroundings in which he lives." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"dalam keramahan tidak ada kebencian terhadap manusia--inilah mengapa begitu banyak hal yang menjijikkan" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"محل ريبة هو كل ما يدعو كثيرا إلى التفكير" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We are unknown, we knowers, to ourselves … Of necessity we remain strangers to ourselves, we understand ourselves not, in our selves we are bound to be mistaken, for each of us holds good to all eternity the motto, ‘Each is the farthest away from himself'—as far as ourselves are concerned we are not knowers." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There are no moral phenomena at all, but only a moral interpretation of phenomena." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"That idyllic shepherd of modern man is only a counterfeit, the totality of cultural illusions which he counts as nature." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I suffer: someone or other must be guilty "" - Every sick sheep thinks the same." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"to be sure: except ye become as little children, ye shall not enter into that kingdom of heaven [and Zarathustra pointed upward with his hands]. but we have no wish whatever to enter into the kingdom of heaven: we have become men — so we want the earth." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"«El cinismo es la única fuerza bajo la cual las almas vulgares rozan lo que se llama sinceridad»" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In our very democratic, or rather, very plebeian age, ""education"" and ""culture"" must be essentially the art of deceiving - deceiving with regard to origin, with regard to the inherited plebeianism in body and soul." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The intense clarity of the image failed to satisfy us, for it seemed to hide as much as it revealed; and while it seemed to invite us to pierce the veil and examine the mystery behind it, its luminous concreteness nevertheless held the eye entranced and kept it from probing deeper" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Christianity has been the most disastrous form of human presumption yet. Humans who were neither high-minded nor tough enough to claim the power to work on mankind as its shaping artist; humans who were neither strong or far-sighted enough to exercise a sublime self-control and let the foreground law of thousands of failures and defeats hold sway; humans who were not noble enough to see the unfathomably diverse hierarchy in the gulf between human and human - these are the people who have controlled Europe's destiny so far, with their 'equal in the eyes of God', until they have bred a diminished, almost ludicrous species, a herd animal, something good-natured, sickly, and mediocre, today's European..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There are so many futures still to dawn!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"All that is good is inherited: whatever is not inherited is imperfect, is a mere beginning." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Similar to the way in which astrologers considered the stars to be in man's service and connected with his happiness and sorrow, such an investigator considers the entire universe in connection with man." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"ليس الكاذب من يتكلم بما يناقض معرفته فقط, بل هو أولا الذى يتكلم ضد عدم معرفته" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Toate ideile despre Biserică sunt recunoscute drept ceea ce sunt, cea mai rea şi falsă plată din câte există, pentru a deprecia firea şi valorile fireşti, însuşi preotul e recunoscut drept ceea ce este, cea mai periculoasă speţă de parazit, adevăratul păianjen negru al vieţii..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When the gratitude that many owe to one discards all modesty, then there is fame." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"أن نخلّص الماضى, أن نحوّل كل ""ذلك ما كان"" إلى ""ذلك ما أردت"" ذلك فقط هو ما أسميه خلاص !" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"لقد مضى زمن كان فيه الإثم تجاه الله أكبر الآثام، لكنّ الله مات، وبهذا مات أيضا كل أولئك الآثمين." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"من منكم كافر أكثر منى , فسأكون مسرورا بالتعلم عنه" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Dostoevsky, by the way, the only psychologist who had anything to teach me:" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One in three all friends are:Brothers in distress,equals facing rivals,free men - facing death!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The faith in the categories of reason is the cause of nihilism. We have measured the value of the world according to categories that refer to a purely fictitious world." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"And when you gaze long enough into the abyss, the abyss will gaze back into you." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Let the young soul survey its own life with a view of the following question: ‘What have you truly loved thus far? What has ever uplifted your soul, what has dominated and delighted it at the same time?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Do not make passion an argument for truth! - O you good-natured and even noble enthusiasts, I know you! You want to win your argument against us, but also against yourself, and above all against yourself!and a subtle and tender bad conscience so often incites you against your enthusiasm! How ingenious you then become in the outwitting and deadening of this conscience! How you hate the honest, the simple, the pure, how you avoid their innocent eyes! That knowing better whose representatives they are and whose voice you hear all too loudly within you, how it casts doubt on your belief- how you seek to make it suspect as a bad habit, as a sickness of the age, as neglect and infection of your own spiritual health! You drive yourself to the point of hating criticism, science, reason! You have to falsify history so that it may bear witness for you, you have to deny virtues so that they shall not cast into the shade those of your idols and ideals! Coloured pictures where what is needed is rational grounds! Ardour and power of expression! Silvery mists! Ambrosial nights! You understand how to illuminate and how to obscure, and how to obscure with light! And truly, when your passion rises to the point of frenzy, there comes a moment when you say to yourself: now I have conquered the good conscience, now I am light of heart, courageous, self-denying, magnificent, now I am honest! How you thirst for those moments when your passion bestows on you perfect self-justification and as it were innocence; when in struggle, intoxication, courage, hope, you are beside yourself and beyond all doubting; when you decree: 'he who is not beside himself as we are can in no way know what and where truth is!' How you thirst to discover people of your belief in this condition - it is that of intellectual vice - and ignite your flame at their torch! Oh your deplorable martyrdom! Oh your deplorable victory of the sanctified lie! Must you inflict so much suffering upon yourself? - Must you?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"This book is intended for calm readers." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"He who fights with monsters might take care lest he thereby becomes a monster." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Representatives of truth. The champions of truth are hardest to find, not when it is dangerous to tell it, but rather when it is boring." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"منذ عرفت الجسد معرفة أفضل, لم تعد الروح بالنسبة لى سوى مجرد صورة بلاغية, وكل ماهو خالد ليس بدوره سوى استعارة" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"perempuan belajar membenci dengan cara yang sama saat mereka--belajar melupakan cara memperdaya" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Some of them will, but most of them are willed. Some of them are genuine, but most of them are bad actors." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It takes a great deal of strength to be able to live and to forget how far living and being unjust are one." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"MEDIOCRITY AS A MASK. — Mediocrity is the happiest mask which the superior mind can wear, because it does not lead the great majority — that is, the mediocre — to think that there is any disguise. Yet the superior mind assumes the mask just for their sake — so as not to irritate them, nay, often from a feeling of pity and kindness." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When you look into the abyss, the abyss also looks into you." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"إن من يبحث يمضى بدوره إلى الضياع بسهولة, وكل إعتزال خطيئة, هكذا يتكلم القطيع" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I TEACH YOU THE SUPERMAN. Man is something that is to be surpassed. What have ye done to surpass man? All" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The herd regards the exception, whether it be above or beneath its general level, as something which is antagonistic and dangerous to itself. Their trick in dealing with the exceptions above them, the strong, the mighty, the wise and the fruitful, is to persuade them to become guardians, herdsmen and watchmen in fact, to become their head servants: thus they convert a danger into a thing which is useful. In the middle, fear ceases: here a man is alone with nothing; here there is not much room even for misunderstandings; here there is equality; here a man's individual existence is not felt as a reproach, but as the right existence; here contentment reigns supreme. Mistrust is active only towards the exceptions; to be an exception is to be a sinner." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"You can see that I have become so candid that I can endure only human relationships which are absolutely genuine. I avoid half-friendships." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The human is evil." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"خریداران را همگی پرواگر یافته ام و همه چشمانی تیز دارند. اما زرنگ‌ترینشان نیز زنِ خود را سربَسته می‌خرد!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Man would sooner have the void for his purpose than be void of purpose" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"perempuan dianggap dalam. kenapa? karena orang tidak akan menemukan dasar pada mereka. perempuan bahkan tidak dangkal" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is the business of the very few to be independent; it is a privilege of the strong. And whoever attempts it, even with the best right, but without being OBLIGED to do so, proves that he is probably not only strong, but also daring beyond measure. He enters into a labyrinth, he multiplies a thousandfold the dangers which life in itself already brings with it; not the least of which is that no one can see how and where he loses his way, becomes isolated, and is torn piecemeal by some minotaur of conscience. Supposing such a one comes to grief, it is so far from the comprehension of men that they neither feel it, nor sympathize with it. And he cannot any longer go back! He cannot even go back again to the sympathy of men! 30." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"But even your best love is only an enraptured simile and a painful ardour. It is a torch to light you to loftier paths." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Tüm zamanlarda olduğu gibi, tüm insanlar şimdi köleler ve özgürler kategorilerine ayrılmaktadır; zira gününün üçte ikisini kendisine ayırmayan herhangi biri, kim olursa olsun, ister devlet adamı, ister iş adamı, ister resmi görevli, ister bilgin olsun, esasen bir köledir." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"That mountain there! That cloud there! What is 'real' about those? Try taking away the phantasm and the entire humancontribution, you sober realists! Yes, if only you could do that! If you could forget your heritage, your past, your training – your entire humanity and animality! For us there is no 'reality' – nor for you either, you sober ones." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"And everywhere an indecent haste prevails, as though something would be missed if the young man of 23 were not 'finished', did not yet know the answer to the 'main question': which occupation? - A higher kind of man, if I may be forgiven for saying so, does not like 'occupations', precisely because he knows he has a calling... He has time, he takes his time, he does not even think of getting 'finished' - at thirty you are, in the sense of high culture, a beginner, a child." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Nothing lives which would be worthy of your striving, and the earth deserves not a sigh. Pain and boredom is our being and the world is excrement, −−nothing else. Calm yourself." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Имаш ли своето ""защо?"" в живота, ще можеш да понесеш почти всяко ""как?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The visible action is not the self-manifestation of the inward life, but only a weak and crude attempt of a single thread to make a show of representing the whole." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"favourites.-There is, of course, here and there on this terrestrial sphere a kind of sequel to love, in which that envious longing of two persons for one another has yielded to a new desire and covetousness, to a common, higher thirst for a superior ideal standing above them : but who knows this love? Who has experienced it? Its right name is friendship." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In the philosopher, on the contrary, there is absolutely nothing impersonal; and above all, his morality furnishes a decided and decisive testimony as to WHO HE IS,—that is to say, in what order the deepest impulses of his nature stand to each other." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"How can man know himself? He is a dark and veiled thing; and whereas the hare has seven skins, the human being can shed seven times 70 skins and still not be able to say: ‘This is really you, this is no longer an outer shell. Besides, it is an agonizing, dangerous undertaking to dig down into yourself in this way, to force your way by the shortest route down the shaft of your own being. How easy it is to do damage to yourself that no doctor can heal. And moreover, why should it be necessary, since everything – our friendships and hatreds, the way we look, our handshakes, the things we remember and forget, our books, our handwriting – bears witness to our being." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Fiziologii ar trebui să mai chibzuiască înainte de a afirma că in¬stinctul primordial al unei fiinţe organice este instinctul de conser¬vare. Fiinţa vie năzuieşte înainte de toate să dea curs liber puterii sale -viata, ea însăşi, este voită de putere -: instinctul de con¬servare fiind doar o consecinţă indirectă, una dintre cele mai frec¬vente ale ei. - Pe scurt, aici precum şi în altă parte, atenţie faţă de principiile teleologice inutile! – cum este acela al instinctului de conservare (pe care îl datorăm inconsecvenţei lui Spinoza). În acest fel se ordonează metoda ce trebuie să fie, în esenţă, economie de principii." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"moral judgments can never be taken literally: literally, they always contain nothing but nonsense. But they are semiotically invaluable all the same: they reveal, at least to those who are in the know, the most valuable realities of cultures and inner states that did not know enough to 'understand' themselves. Morality is just a sign language, just a symptomatology: you already have to know what it's all about in order to get any use out of it." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"All that is rare for the rare." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Let us beware of thinking that the world is a living being. Where should it expand? On what should it feed? How could it grow and multiply? We have some notion of the nature of the organic; and we should not reinterpret the exceedingly derivative, late, rare, accidental, that we perceive only on the crust of the earth and make of it something essential, universal, and eternal, which is what those people do who call the universe an organism. This nauseates me. Let us even beware of believing that the universe is a machine: it is certainly not constructed for one purpose, and calling it a 'machine' does it far too much honor. Let us beware of positing generally and everywhere anything as elegant as the cyclical movements of our neighboring stars; even a glance into the Milky Way raises doubts whether there are not far coarser and more contradictory movements there, as well as stars with eternally linear paths, etc. The astral order in which we live is an exception; this order and the relative duration that depends on it have again made possible an exception of exceptions: the formation of the organic. The total character of the world, however, is in all eternity chaos—in the sense not of a lack of necessity but of a lack of order, arrangement, form, beauty, wisdom, and whatever other names there are for our aesthetic anthropomorphisms. Judged from the point of view of our reason, unsuccessful attempts are by all odds the rule, the exceptions are not the secret aim, and the whole musical box repeats eternally its tune which may never be called a melody—and ultimately even the phrase 'unsuccessful attempt' is too anthropomorphic and reproachful. But how could we reproach or praise the universe? Let us beware of attributing to it heartlessness and unreason or their opposites: it is neither perfect nor beautiful, nor noble, nor does it wish to become any of these things; it does not by any means strive to imitate man. None of our aesthetic and moral judgments apply to it. Nor does it have any instinct for self-preservation or any other instinct; and it does not observe any laws either. Let us beware of saying that there are laws in nature. There are only necessities: there is nobody who commands, nobody who obeys, nobody who trespasses. Once you know that there are no purposes, you also know that there is no accident; for it is only beside a world of purposes that the word 'accident' has meaning. Let us beware of saying that death is opposed to life. The living is merely a type of what is dead, and a very rare type. Let us beware of thinking that the world eternally creates new things. There are no eternally enduring substances; matter is as much of an error as the God of the Eleatics. But when shall we ever be done with our caution and care? When will all these shadows of God cease to darken our minds? When will we complete our de-deification of nature? When may we begin to 'naturalize' humanity in terms of a pure, newly discovered, newly redeemed nature?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Comment l'Histoire pourrait-elle mieux servir la vie qu'en attachant à leur patrie et aux coutumes de leur patrie les races et les peuples moins favorisés, en leur donnant des goûts sédentaires, ce qui les empêche de chercher mieux à l'étranger, de rivaliser dans la lutte pour parvenir à ce mieux? Parfois cela paraît être de l'entêtement et de la déraison qui visse en quelque sorte l'individu à tels compagnons et à tel entourage, à telles habitudes laborieuses, à tels stérile coteau. Mais c'est la déraison la plus salutaire, celle qui profite le plus à la collectivité. Chacun le sait, qui s'est rendu compte des terribles effets de l'esprit d'aventure, de la fièvre d'émigration, quand ils s'emparent de peuplades entières, chacun le sait, qui a vu de près un peuple ayant perdu la fidélité à son passé, abandonné à une chasse fiévreuse de la nouveauté, à une recherche perpétuelle des éléments étrangers. Le sentiment contraire, le plaisir que l'arbre prend à ses racines, le bonheur que l'on éprouve à ne pas se sentir né de l'arbitraire et du hasard, mais sorti d'un passé — héritier, floraison, fruit — , ce qui excuserait et justifierait même l'existence : c'est là ce que l'on appelle aujourd'hui, avec une certaine prédilection, le sens historique.Deuxième Considération intempestive. ch. 3" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Nothing avails: every master has but one disciple, and that one becomes unfaithful to him, for he too is destined for mastership.   [408]" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I myself, to be sure - I have as yet seen no great man. That which is great, the acutest eye is at present insensible to it. It is the kingdom of the populace." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Extreme positions are not succeeded by moderate ones, but by contrary extreme positions." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I distrust all systematizers and stay out of their way. The will to a system is a lack of integrity." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Fourth proposition. To divide the world into a ‘real' and an ‘apparent' world, whether in the manner of Christianity or in the manner of Kant (which is, after all, that of a cunning Christian –) is only a suggestion of décadence – a symptom of declining life.…" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In my dream, in my last morning-dream, I stood today on a promontory— beyond the world; I held a pair of scales, and weighed the world.Alas, that the rosy dawn came too early to me: she glowed me awake, the jealous one! Jealous is she always of the glows of my morning-dream." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Why should one live? All is vain! To live - that is to thresh straw; tolive - that is to burn oneself and yet not get warm.-Such ancient babbling still passes for ""wisdom""; because it is old,however, and smells mustily, therefore is it the more honoured. Evenmould ennobles.-Children might thus speak: they shun the fire because it has burntthem! There is much childishness in the old books of wisdom.And he who ever ""threshes straw,"" why should he be allowed to rail atthreshing! Such a fool one would have to muzzle!Such persons sit down to the table and bring nothing with them, noteven good hunger: - and then do they rail: ""All is vain!""But to eat and drink well, my brothers, is truly nohath burnt them! There is much childishness in the oldbooks of wisdom.And he who ever 'thrasheth straw,' why should he beallowed to rail at thrashing! Such a fool one would haveto muzzle!Such persons sit down to the table and bring nothingwith them, not even good hunger:—and then do theyrail: 'All is vain!'But to eat and drink well, my brethren, is verily no vainart! Break up, break up for me the tables of the never-joyousones!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A man's imperative command is not only to say ""no"" in cases where ""yes"" would be a sign of ""disinterestedness,"" but also to say ""no"" as seldom as possible. One must part with all that which compels one to repeat ""no,"" with ever greater frequency. The rationale of this principle is that all discharges of defensive forces, however slight they may be, involve enormous and absolutely superfluous losses when they become regular and habitual. Our greatest expenditure of strength is made up of those small and most frequent discharges of it. The act of keeping things off, of holding them at a distance, amounts to a discharge of strength,—do not deceive yourselves on this point!—and an expenditure of energy directed at purely negative ends. Simply by being compelled to keep constantly on his guard, a man may grow so weak as to be unable any longer to defend himself." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Plato has given to all posterity the model of a new art form, the model of the --which may be described as an infinitely enhanced Aesopian fable, in which poetry holds the same rank in relation to dialectical philosophy as this same philosophy held for many centuries in relation to theology: namely the rank of ." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"فى كل لحظة يبدأ الوجود, حول كل هنا تدور الكرة هناك, فى كل مكان هو المركز. منفرجة هى طريق الأبدية" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The greatest danger that always hovered over humanity, and still hovers over it, is the eruption of madness— which means the eruption of arbitrariness in feeling, seeing, and hearing, the enjoyment of the mind's lack of discipline, the joy in human unreason." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"All of life is a dispute about tastes." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I have at all times written my writings with my whole heart and soul: I do not know what purely intellectual problems are." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"But this nation has deliberately made itself stupid, for practically a thousand years: nowhere else are the two great European narcotics, alcohol and Christianity, so viciously abused." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"ومن كان ساعيا إلى المعرفة بعينين تلتصقان بالأشياء بإلحاح, كيف له أن يرى من الأشياء كلها أكثر مما تمنح من أسباب وجودها الظاهرية !" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Each tradition grows more venerable the farther its origin lies in the past, the more it is forgotten; the respect paid to the tradition accumulates from generation to generation; finally the origin becomes sacred and awakens awe." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The way after all – it does not exist!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"unrighteousness. Ah! how ineptly cometh the word ""virtue"" out of their mouth! And when they say: ""I am just,"" it always soundeth like: ""I am just—revenged!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A man as he ought to be: that sounds to us as insipid as a tree as it ought to be." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The more a psychologist—a born, an unavoidable psychologist and soul-diviner—turns his attention to the more select cases and individuals, the greater is his danger of being suffocated by sympathy: he NEEDS sternness and cheerfulness more than any other man. For the corruption, the ruination of higher men, of the more unusually constituted souls, is in fact, the rule: it is dreadful to have such a rule always before one's eyes." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I am a railing alongside the torrent; whoever is able to grasp me may graspme! Your crutch, however, I am not.--" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The slavery of barbarians (i.e. our own slavery). The division of labour is the principle of barbarism. Dominance of mechanism. In an organism, the parts cannot be separated. The individualism of modernity and its opposite in antiquity. The wholly isolated individual of today is too weak and joins groups of slaves―of e.g. an academic discipline, a concept, a vice." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"p5 - It is matter for wonder: the moment that is here and gone, that was nothing before and nothing after, returns like a specter to trouble the quiet of a later moment...the beast(animals)...forgets at once and sees every moment really die, sink into night and mist, extinguished forever. The beast lives unhistorically..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Many too many are born: for the superfluous ones was the state devised!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"¿Qué es lo malo? Todo lo que proviene de la debilidad." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The conviction reigns that it is only through the sacrifices and accomplishments of the ancestors that the tribe exists--and that one has to pay them back with sacrifices and accomplishments; one thus recognizes a debt that constantly grows greater, since these forebears never cease, in their continued existence as powerful spirits, to accord the tribe new advantages and new strength." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Do whatever you will, but first be such as are able to will." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Joys want the eternity of all things, they want deep, profound eternity!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Insects sting, not for malice, but because they want to live. It is the same with critics; they desire our blood, not our pain" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One should only speak where one cannot remain silent, and only speak of what one has conquered —the rest is all chatter, 'literature,' bad breeding." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"O my friends! Thus speaketh the discerning one: shame, shame, shame—that is the history of man!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The reason why the powerful man is grateful is this: his benefactor, through the benefit he confers, has mistaken and intruded into the sphere of the powerful man, now the latter, in return, penetrates into the sphere of the benefactor by the act of gratitude. It is a milder form of revenge. Without the satisfaction of gratitude the powerful man would have shown himself powerless and would have been reckoned as such ever after. Therefore every society of the good, which originally meant; the powerful, places gratitude amongst the first duties. Swift propounded the maxim that men were grateful in the same proportion as they were revengeful." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We have invented the concept 'goal': in reality, goals are absent . . ." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There is a point in the history of society when it becomes so pathologically soft and tender that among other things it sides even with those who harm it, criminals, and does this quite seriously and honestly. Punishing somehow seems unfair to it, and it is certain that imagining 'punishment' and 'being supposed to punish' hurts it, arouses fear in it. 'Is it not enough to render him undangerous? Why still punish? Punishing itself is terrible.' With this question, herd morality, the morality of timidity, draws its ultimate consequence." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"13- في مذهب الشعور بالاقتدارنحن نمارس قدرتنا على فعل وإرادة الخيرنحو من يخضع لنا بطريقة او بأخرى (أي الذين من عادتهم أن يفكروا بناعلى أننا مبدأهم) فنريد حقا أن نضاعف قدرتهم الخاصة، لأننا بتلكالطريقة نضاعف قدرتنا، أو نريد ان نظهر لهم المنفعة التي يجدونها فيخضوعهم لنا، فيشتد بالتالي رضاهم عن وضعهم، ويصيرون أشد عداوةوضراوة قي مواجهة أعدائنا الخاصين. ولو قدمنا التضحيات للقيام بالخيراو بالشر، فإن ذلك لا يغير من القيمة النهائية لأعمالنا: حتى لو عرضناحياتنا للخطر شأننا في ذلك شان شهيد دينه، فإننا نقوم بهذه التضحيةلعطشنا الخاص إلى مقدرتنا، او للحفاظ على الأقل على شعورنا بأننانملكها." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Sensuality often forces the growth of love too much, so that its root remains weak, and is easily torn up." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is the most sensual men who find it necessary to flee women and to torment their bodies." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Intense hope is a much stronger stimulant to life than any single instance of happiness which actually occurs." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Nihilism. It is ambiguous:A. Nihilism as a sign of increased power of the spirit: as active nihilism.B. Nihilism as decline and recession of the power of the spirit: as passive nihilism." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Mankind does not strive for happiness; only the Englishman does that." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Éramos amigos y nos hemos vuelto extraños. Pero está bien así, y no queremos disimularlo ni ocultarlo como si tuviésemos que avergonzarnos de ello. somos dos barcos y cada uno tiene su meta y su rumbo, puede que nos crucemos y celebremos una fiesta juntos, como lo hicimos cuando los probos barcos quedaron fondeados en un mismo puerto y a un mismo sol, tan tranquilos que parecía como si ya hubiesen llegado a su destino y hubiesen tenido un mismo destino.Pero más tarde la todopoderosa fuerza de nuestra tarea volvió a separarnos, hacia diferentes mares y latitudes, y quizá no nos volvamos a ver nunca más, o tal vez nos volveremos a ver, pero ya no nos reconoceremos: ¡los diferentes mares y vientos nos habrán cambiado! Tener que volvernos extraños el uno para el otro es la ley que está por encima de nosotros: ¡precisamente por eso hemos de ser más venerables uno para el otro! ¡Precisamente por eso ha de ser más sagrado para nosotros el pensamiento de nuestra antigua amistad!Existe probablemente una tremenda curva y órbita estelar invisible en la que nuestros caminos y metas, tan distintos como son, puede que estén incluidos como pequeños trampos, ¡elevémonos hacia ese pensamiento! Pero nuestra vida es demasiado breve y nuestra vista demasiado débil como para que podamos ser más que amigos en el sentido de aquella sublime posibilidad. Creamos, pues, en nuestra amistad estelar, aun en el caso de que tuviéramos que ser enemigos sobre la tierra." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"You will have guessed what has really happened here, beneath all this: that will to self-tormenting, that repressed cruelty of the animal-man made inward and scared back into himself, the creature imprisoned in the 'state' so as to be tamed, who invented the bad conscience in order to hurt himself after the more natural vent for this desire to hurt had been blocked—this man of the bad conscience has seized upon the presupposition of religion so as to drive his self-torture to its most gruesome pitch of severity and rigor. Guilt before God: this thought becomes an instrument of torture to him. He apprehends in 'God' the ultimate antithesis of his own ineluctable animal instincts; he reinterprets these animal instincts themselves as a form of guilt before God (as hostility, rebellion, insurrection against the 'Lord,' the 'father,' the primal ancestor and origin of the world); he stretches himself upon the contradiction 'God' and 'Devil' he ejects from himself all his denial of himself, of his nature, naturalness, and actuality, in the form of an affirmation, as something existent, corporeal, real, as God, as the holiness of God, as God the Judge, as God the Hangman, as the beyond, as eternity, as torment without end, as hell, as the immeasurability of punishment and guilt." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"O Filósofo e a VelhiceNão é bom deixar a noite julgar o dia: pois com frequência o cansaço torna-se juiz da força, do êxito e da boa vontade. Assim também é aconselhável extrema cautela em relação à idade e seu julgamento da vida, uma vez que a velhice, como a noite, ama disfarçar-se de uma nova e atraente moralidade e sabe humilhar o dia com os vermelhos do crepúsculo e o silêncio apaziguador ou nostálgico." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The morality that would un-self man is the morality of decline par excellence—the fact, ""I am declining,"" transposed into the imperative, ""all of you ought to decline""—and not only into the imperative... This only morality that has been taught so far, that of un-selfing, reveals a will to the end; fundamentally, it negates life." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Anyone who, in intercourse with men, does not occasionally glisten in all the colors of distress, green and gray with disgust, satiety, sympathy, gloominess, and loneliness, is certainly not a man of elevated tastes; supposing, however, that he does not take all this burden and disgust upon himself voluntarily, that he persistently avoids it, and remains, as I said, quietly and proudly hidden in his citadel, one thing is certain: he was not made, he was not predestined, for knowledge. If he were, he would one day have to say to himself: ‘The devil take my good taste! but the rule is more interesting than the exception—than myself, the exception!' And he would go down, and above all, he would go ‘inside'." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We stop too often at knowing the good without doing it, because we also know the better but cannot do it." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Many honours I want not, nor great treasures: they excite the spleen. But it is bad sleeping without a good name and a little treasure." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"With a moral interpretation the world is insufferable; Christianity was the attempt to overcome the world with morality: i.e. to deny it. In praxi such a mad experiment—an imbecile elevation of man above the world—could only end in the beglooming, the dwarfing, and the impoverishment of mankind: the only kind of man who gained anything by it, who was promoted by it, was the most mediocre, the most harmless and gregarious type." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One who understands wanders among humans as among beasts." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"For every impulse is imperious, and as SUCH, attempts to philosophize. To be sure, in the case of scholars, in the case of really scientific men, it may be otherwise—""better,"" if you will; there there may really be such a thing as an ""impulse to knowledge,"" some kind of small, independent clock-work, which, when well wound up, works away industriously to that end, without the rest of the scholarly impulses taking any material part therein. The actual ""interests"" of the scholar, therefore, are generally in quite another direction—in the family, perhaps, or in money-making, or in politics; it is, in fact, almost indifferent at what point of research his little machine is placed, and whether the hopeful young worker becomes a good philologist, a mushroom specialist, or a chemist; he is not characterised by becoming this or that. In the philosopher, on the contrary, there is absolutely nothing impersonal; and above all, his morality furnishes a decided and decisive testimony as to who he is,—that is to say, in what order the deepest impulses of his nature stand to each other. 7." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"man who loves like a woman becomes thereby a slave ; a woman, however, who loves like a woman" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Against war one might say that it makes the victor stupid and the vanquished malicious. In its favor, that in producing these two effects it barbarizes, and so makes the combatants more natural. For culture it is a sleep or a wintertime, and man emerges from it stronger for good and for evil." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"El idealista es incorregible ; si se le arroja de su cielo, se hace del infierno un ideal. Creadle una decepción & veréis que no pone menos ardor en abrazar su decepción del que ponía poco antes en aferrarse a su esperanza. En la medida en que su inclinación pertenece a las grandes tendencias incurables de la naturaleza humana, puede provocar destinos trágicos & convertirse después en objeto de tragedias; en esto afecta a lo que hay de incurable, de inevitable, de irremisible en el destino & en el carácter humanos." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Sudovi, vrednosni sudovi o životu, za ili protiv, ne mogu naposletku nikada biti istiniti: oni imaju vrednost samo kao simptomi, oni dolaze u obzir samo kao simptomi - takvi sudovi su sami po sebi budalaštine." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Zarathustra, the first to grasp that optimism is just as decadent as pessimism and perhaps more harmful, says: good men never tell the truth. The good taught you false shores and false securities: you were born and kept in the lies of the good. Everything has been distorted and twisted down to its very bottom through the good." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"—We are like storefront windows in which we ourselves constantly arrange, cover up, or light up the supposed qualities that others ascribe to us—in order to deceive ." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Who is more godless than I, that I may delight in his instruction?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The hatred of egoism, whether it be one's own, as with the Christians, or another's, as with the Socialists, comes about first, as a value judgement under the predominant influence of revenge, and second, as a prudent means of self-preservation on the part of the suffering, by intensifying their feelings of reciprocity and solidarity." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In the main, I agree more with the artists than with any philosopher hitherto: they have not lost the scent of life, they have loved the things of 'this world 'they have loved their senses. To strive for 'desensualization': that seems to me a misunderstanding or an illness or a cure, where it is not merely a hypocrisy or self-deception. I desire for myself and for all who live, may live, without being tormented by a puritanical conscience, an ever-greater spiritualization and multiplication of the senses; indeed, we should be grateful to the senses for their subtlety, plenitude and power and offer them in return the best we have in the way of spirit" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Thus spake the devil unto me, once on a time: 'Even God hath his hell: it is his love for man." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A god come to earth ought to do nothing whatever but wrong: to take upon oneself, not the punishment, but the guilt - only that would be godlike." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A people is nature's roundabout way of getting six or seven great men. –Yes: and then of getting around them." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What is great about man is that he is a bridge, not an end: what can be loved about man is that he is a going-over and a going-under. I love those who do not know how to live except as downgoers, for they are going over.[...] I love all those who are like heavy raindrops falling individually from the dark cloud that hang over man: they herald the coming of the lightning and perish as heralds." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"هناك أحاسيس تريد قتل المتوحّد وإذا لم تفلح فى ذلك سيكون عليها أن تموت ! هل أنت قادر على أن تكون قاتلا ؟" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"شئ ما فى داخلى لم يُسكّن ولا شئ يسكّنهيريد أن يرفع صوته" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Will and Willingness.-Someone brought a youth to a wise man, and said, "" See, this is one who is being corrupted by women!"" The wise man shook his head and smiled. "" It is men,"" he called out, "" who corrupt women; and everything that women lack should be atoned for and improved in men,-for man creates for himself the ideal of woman, and woman moulds herself according to this ideal.""-"" You are too tender-hearted towards women,"" said one of the bystanders, "" you do not know them !"" The wise man answered : "" Man's attribute is will, woman's attribute is willingness,- such is the law of the sexes, verily! a hard law for woman! All human beings are innocent of their existence, women, however, are doubly innocent; who could have enough of salve and gentleness for them !""-""What about salve! What about gentleness ! "" called out another person in the crowd, "" we must educate women better!""-"" We must educate men better,"" said the wise man, and made a sign to the youth to follow him.-The youth, however, did not follow him." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To some people you may give not your hand, but only a slap with a paw: and I would at your paw might also have claws." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"All great cultural epochs are epochs of political decline: that which is great in the cultural sense has been unpolitical, even anti-political.…" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When we hear the old bells ringing out on a Sunday morning, we ask ourselves: can it be possible? This for a Jew, crucified two thousand years ago, who said he was the son of God. The proof of such a claim is wanting. Within our times the Christian religion is surely an antiquity jutting out from a far-distant olden time; and the fact that people believe such a claim...is perhaps the oldest part of this heritage. A god who conceives children with a mortal woman; a wise man who calls us to work no more; to judge no more; but to heed the signs of the imminent apocalypse; a justice that accepts the innocent man as a proxy sacrifice; someone who has his disciplines drink his blood; prayers for miraculous interventions; sins against a god, atoned for by a god; fear of the afterlife, to which death is the gate; the figure of the cross as a symbol, in a time that no longer knows the purpose and shame of the cross - how horribly all this wafts over us, as from the grave of the ancient past! Are we to believe that such things are still believed?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"If someone wants to seem to be something, stubbornly and for a long time, he eventually finds it hard to be anything else." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Thus spoke the devil to me once: ""God too has his hell: it is his love of man.""...And most recently I heard him speak this word: ""God is dead: God died of his pity for man."" —On the Pitying" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The psychological problem apparent in the Zarathustra type is how someone who to an unprecedented degree says no and does no to everything everyone has said yes to so far, – how somebody like this can nevertheless be the opposite of a no-saying spirit" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Au existat până acum o mie de scopuri, căci au existat o mie de popoare. Doar lanţul pe cele-o mie de capete lipseşte, lipseşte încă un singur scop. Umanitatea n-are încă scop. Dar spuneţi-mi, voi, fraţi ai mei: dacă umanităţii îi lipseşte scopul, nu-nseamnă oare că ea însăşi nu există încă?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We like to consider the great man as the noble child of his age, who feels its defects more strongly and intimately than the smaller men: and therefore the struggle of the great man against his age is apparently nothing but a mad fight to the death with himself. Only apparently, however: he only fights the elements in his time that hinder his own greatness, in other words his own freedom and sincerity. And so, at bottom, he is only an enemy to that element which is not truly himself, the irreconcilable antagonism of the temporal and eternal in him." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Целомудрие не есть ли безумие?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I want to learn more and more to see as beautiful what is necessary in things; then I shall be one of those who make things beautiful. Amor fati: let that be my love henceforth! I do not want to wage war against what is ugly…And all in all and on the whole: some day I wish to be only a Yes-sayer." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Para o homem que tem uma convicção, ela é a sua espinha dorsal." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Life is hard to bear: but do not pretend to be so sensitive! We are all of us pretty sturdy asses and she-asses." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Omul e doar o funie, întinsă între bestie şi Supraom — o funie peste un abis" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What is great in the human is that it is a bridge and not a goal: what can be loved in the human is that it is a going-over and a going-under." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"is the most pleasant feeling in those who have not much pride, and have no prospect of great conquests:" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We have stopped deriving humanity from ‘spirit', from ‘divinity', we have stuck human beings back among the animals. We see them as the strongest animals because they are the most cunning: one consequence of this is their spirituality." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Of two quite lofty things, measure and moderation, it is best never to speak. A few know their force and significance, from the mysterious paths of inner experiences and conversions: they honor in them something quite godlike, and are afraid to speak aloud. All the rest hardly listen when they are spoken about, and think the subjects under discussion are tedium and mediocrity." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Whom do you call Bad?-Him who always wants to put others to shame." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Quiconque lutte contre des monstres devrait prendre garde, dans le combat, à ne pas devenir monstre lui-même. Et quant à celui qui scrute le fond de l'abysse, l'abysse le scrute à son tour." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Getting along with people, keeping an open house in one's heart—that's liberal, but nothing more than liberal. You can recognize hearts that are capable of noble hospitality by their many curtained windows and closed shutters: they keep their best rooms empty. But why?—Because they are waiting for guests that one does not 'get along with'…" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Cynicism is the only form in which base souls approach honesty; and the higher man must listen closely to every coarse or subtle cynicism, and congratulate himself when a clown without shame or a scientific satyr speaks out precisely in front of him." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The perfect woman is a higher type of humanity than the perfect man, and also something much rarer. The natural history of animals furnishes grounds in support of this theory." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Yes, I recognize Zarathustra. His eyes are clear now, no longer does he sneer with loathing. Just see how he dances along!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One no longer becometh poor or rich; both are too burdensome. Who still wanteth to rule? Who still wanteth to obey? Both are too burdensome." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"But have you ever asked yourselves sufficiently how much the erection of every ideal on earth has cost? How much reality has had to be misunderstood and slandered, how many lies have had to be sanctified, how many consciences disturbed, how much ""God"" sacrificed every time? If a temple is to be erected a temple must be destroyed: that is the law – let anyone who can show me a case in which it is not fulfilled!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A thing can only live through a pious illusion." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"If you except the ascetic ideal,man ,the animal man had no meaning.His existence on earth contained no end.'What is the purpose of man at all?' ,was a question without an answer;the will for man and the world was lacking;behind every great human destiny rang as a refrain a still greater ""Vanity""." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The Church and morality say: ‘A race, a people perishes through vice and luxury'. My restored reason says: when a people is perishing, degenerating physiologically, vice and luxury (that is to say the necessity for stronger and stronger and more and more frequent stimulants, such as every exhausted nature is acquainted with) follow therefrom." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Accordingly, I do not believe that an ""impulse to knowledge"" is the father of philosophy; but that another impulse, here as elsewhere, has only made use of knowledge (and mistaken knowledge!) as an instrument." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"you had to become master over yourself, master of your own good qualities. Formerly they were your masters: but they should be merely your tools along with other tools." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Third proposition. To talk about ‘another' world than this is quite pointless, provided that an instinct for slandering, disparaging and accusing life is not strong within us: in the latter case we revenge ourselves on life by means of the phantasmagoria of ‘another', a ‘better' life." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Cine-i învăluit de flacăra invidiei — acela îşi întoarce până la urmă, ca scorpionul, acul înveninat spre sine însuşi." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The wildly beautiful irrationality of poetry refutes you, you utilitarians!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Certo, io sono una selva e una notte di alberi scuri ma chi non ha paura delle mie tenebre, troverà anche pendii di rose sotto i miei cipressi." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"But the state tells lies in all the tongues of good and evil; and whatever it says it lies—and whatever it has it has stolen. Everything about it is false;" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The discipline of suffering, of great suffering — do you not know that only this discipline has created all enhancements of man so far? That tension of the soul in unhappiness which cultivates its strength, its shudders face to face with great ruin, its inventiveness and courage in enduring, preserving, interpreting, and exploiting suffering, and whatever has been granted to it of profundity, secret, mask, spirit, cunning, greatness — was it not granted to it through suffering, through the discipline of great suffering?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In pain there is as much wisdom as in pleasure: like the latter it is one of the best self-preservatives of a species. Were it not so, pain would long ago have been done away with; that it is hurtful is no argument against it, for to be hurtful is its very essence. In pain I hear the commanding call of the ship's captain: ""Take in sail!"" ""Man,"" the bold seafarer, must have learned to set his sails in a thousand different ways, otherwise he could not have sailed long, for the ocean would soon have swallowed him up. We must also know how to live with reduced energy: as soon as pain gives its precautionary signal, it is time to reduce the speed—some great danger, some storm, is approaching, and we do well to ""catch"" as little wind as possible." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"For I approach deep problems like cold baths: quickly into them and quickly out again. That one does not get to the depths that way, not deep enough down, is the superstition of those afraid of the water, the enemies of cold water; they speak without experience. The freezing cold makes one swift." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"apa? kamu mencari? kamu ingin membanyakkan dirimu menjadi sepuluh, seratus kali? kamu mencari pengikut? carilah nol!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"love him who maketh his virtue his inclination and destiny: thus, for the sake of his virtue, he is willing to live on, or live no more." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"[N]othing is more easily corrupted than an artist." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"–and only when you have all denied me will I return to you. Verily, with dierent eyes, my brothers, shall I then seek my lost ones; with a dierent love shall I then love you" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Once the sin against God was the greatest sin; but God died, and these sinners died with him. To sin against the earth is now the most dreadful thing, and to esteem the entrails of the unknowable higher than the meaning of the earth." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The eternal child. - We think that play and fairy tales belong to childhood:how shortsighted that is! As though we would want at any time of life tolive without play and fairy tales! We give these things other names, to besure, and feel differently about them, but precisely this is the evidencethat they are the same things - for the child too regards play as his workand fairy tales as his truth. The brevity of life ought to preserve us from apedantic division of life into different stages - as though each broughtsomething new - and a poet ought for once to present a man of twohundred: one, that is, who really does live without play and fairy tales." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In sum: the world might be far more valuable than we used to believe; we must see through the naiveté of our ideals, and while we thought that we had accorded it the highest interpretation, we may not have given our human existence a moderately fair value." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"All things that endure for a long time are little by little permeated by reason that their origin in unreason becomes improbable." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"WE are unknown, we knowers, ourselves to ourselves: this has its own good reason." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Those who keep silent are almost always lacking in delicacy and refinement of heart; silence is an objection; to swallow a grievance necessarily produces a bad temper — it even upsets the stomach. All silent people are dyspeptic. You may note that I do not care to see rudeness undervalued; it is by far the most humane form of contradiction, and, amid modern effeminacy, it is one of our first virtues." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The creator seeks companions, not corpses or herds or believers. The creator seeks fellow-creators, those who inscribe new values on new tables. The" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is all in vain; the torture of the unfulfilled law cannot be overcome." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Thus spoke the devil to me once: 'God too has his hell: it is his love of man.'...And most recently I heard him speak this word: 'God is dead: God died of his pity for man." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"And in fact, I myself do not believe that anybody ever looked into the world with a distrust as deep as mine, seeming, as I do, not simply the timely advocate of the devil, but, to employ theological terms, an enemy and challenger of God; and whosoever has experienced any of the consequences of such deep distrust, anything of the chills and the agonies of isolation to which such an unqualified difference of standpoint condemns him endowed with it, will also understand how often I must have sought relief and self-forgetfulness from any source—through any object of veneration or enmity" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"...his wisdom meanwhile increased, and caused him pain by its abundance." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The hybrid European—a tolerably ugly plebeian, taken all in all—absolutely requires a costume:" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Generally speaking, punishment makes men hard and cold; it concentrates; it sharpens the feeling of alienation; it strengthens the power of resistance." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"That will to power, in which I recognize the ultimate ground and character of all change again, gives us the means to justify, why the selection in favor of the exceptions and good fortune has not held: the strongest and happiest are weak when they have the organized herd-instinct, the fearsomeness of the weak, the majority against him. My global aspect (Gesammtaspekt) the world shows the values that in the top-values, which are hung over humanity today was not the lucky cases, the selection types, the upper hand: but the types of decadence — perhaps there is nothing more interesting in the world as this unwanted drama." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"And how does one basically recognize good development? In that a well-developed man does our senses good: that he is carved from wood which is hard, delicate, and sweet-smelling, all at the same time." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Advocates of truth.―Truth is least likely to find advocates not when it is dangerous to speak the truth, but when it is boring to do so." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"CONSIDER the herds that are feeding yonder: they know not the meaning of yesterday or to-day; they graze and ruminate, move or rest, from morning to night, from day to day, taken up with their little loves and hates, at the mercy of the moment, feeling neither melancholy nor satiety. Man cannot see them without regret, for even in the pride of his humanity he looks enviously on the beast's happiness. He wishes simply to live without satiety or pain, like the beast; yet it is all in vain, for he will not change places with it. He may ask the beast—""Why do you look at me and not speak to me of your happiness?"" The beast wants to answer—""Because I always forget what I wished to say"": but he forgets this answer too, and is silent; and the man is left to wonder." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"No one can build you the bridge on which you, and only you, must cross the river of life. There is one path in the world that none can walk but you. Where does it lead? Don't ask, walk!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"não existe, talvez, nada mais assustador e mais sinistro em toda a pré-história do homem que a sua técnica para se lembrar das coisas.' Alguma coisa é impressa, para que permaneça na memória: apenas o que dói incessantemente é recordado' – este é uma proposição central da mais antiga (e, infelizmente, também a mais duradoura) filosofia na Terra. Uma pessoa pode até sentir-se tentada a dizer que algo deste horror – através da qual em tempos se fizeram promessas por toda a Terra e foram dadas garantias e empenhamentos -, algo disto ainda sobrevive sempre que a solenidade, seriedade, secretismo e cores sombrias se encontram na vida dos homens e das nações: o passado, o passado mais longo, mais profundo e mais desagradável, respira sobre nós e brota em nós sempre que nos tornamos 'sérios'. As coisas nunca avançaram sem sangue, tortura e vítimas, quando o homem achou necessário forjar uma memória de si próprio. Os sacrifícios e as oferendas mais horrendos (…), as mutilações mais repulsivas (…), os rituais mais cruéis de todos os cultos religiosos ( e todas as religiões são, nas suas fundações mais profundas, sistemas de crueldade) - todas estas coisas tem origem naquele instinto que adivinhou que a mais poderosa ajuda da memória era a dor. Num certo sentido, todo o ascetismo faz parte disto: algumas ideias tem de tornar-se inextinguíveis, omnipresentes, inesquecíveis, 'fixas' – com o objectivo de hipnotizar todo o sistema nervoso e intelecto através destas 'ideias fixas' – e os procedimentos e formas de vida ascéticos são o meio de libertar essas ideias da competição com todas as outras ideias, para torna-las 'inesquecíveis'. Quanto maior era a memoria da humanidade, mais assustadores parecem ser os seus costumes; a dureza dos códigos de punição, em particular, dá uma medida da quantidade de esforço que é necessária para triunfar sobre o esquecimento e tornar estes escravos efémeros da emoção e do desejo atentos a alguns requisitos primitivos de coabitação social. (…) Para dominar (…) recorreram a meios assustadores (…) de apedrejamento, (…), a empalação na estaca, a dilaceração ou o espezinhamento por cavalos, (…), queimar o criminoso em azeite (…), a prática popular de esfolamento, (…) cobrir o criminoso de mel e deixá-lo às moscas num sol abrasador. Com a ajuda deste tipo de imagens e procedimentos, a pessoa acaba por memorizar cinco ou seis 'Não farei', fazendo assim a promessa em troca das vantagens oferecidas pela sociedade. E de facto! com a ajuda deste tipo de memória, a pessoa acaba por 'ver a razão'! Ah, razão, seriedade, domínio das emoções, todo o caso sombrio que dá pelo nome de pensamento, todos esses privilégios e exemplos do homem: que preço elevado que foi pago por eles! Quanto sangue e horror está no fundo de todas as 'coisas boas'!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"You creating ones, you higher men! Whoever has to give birth is sick;whoever has given birth, however, is unclean.Ask women: one gives birth, not because it gives pleasure. The painmakes hens and poets cackle.You creating ones, in you there is much uncleanliness. That is becauseyou have had to be mothers.A new child: oh, how much new filth has also come into the world! Goapart! He who has given birth shall wash his soul!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In every age the wisest have passed the identical judgement on life: it is worthless." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Principal standpoint: one should not suppose the mission of a higher species to be the leading of inferior men (as Comte does, for instance); but the inferior should be regarded as the foundation upon which a higher species may live their higher life — upon which alone they can stand. The conditions under which a strong, noble species maintains itself (in the matter of intellectual discipline) are precisely the reverse of those under which the industrial masses — the tea-grocers à la Spencer — subsist. Those qualities which are within the grasp only of the strongest and most terrible natures, and which make their existence possible leisure, adventure, disbelief, and even dissipation — would necessarily ruin mediocre natures — and does do so — when they possess them. In the case of the latter industry, regularity, moderation, and strong 'conviction' are in their proper place — in short, all 'gregarious virtues': under their influence these mediocre men become perfect." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What then are our experiences? Much more that which we put into them than that which they already contain! Or must we go so far as to say: in themselves they contain nothing? To experience is to invent" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"War and courage have done more great things than charity. Not your sympathy, but your bravery hath hitherto saved the victims. ""What is good?"" ye ask. To be brave is good. Let the little girls say: ""To be good is what is pretty, and at the same time touching." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Our whole science is still, in spite of all its coldness, of all its freedom from passion, a dupe of the tricks of language, and has never succeeded in getting rid of that superstitious changeling 'the subject' (the atom, to give another instance, is such a changeling, just as the Kantian 'Thing-in-itself')." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A culture based on the principle of science must perish once it begins to become illogical, i.e. to turn and flee its own consequences." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Fiecare epocă îşi are felul ei propriu de adorabilă naivitate pe care celelalte secole i-o invidiază: - şi cât de multă naivitate respectabilă, puerilă şi infinit de prostească se află în această credinţă a savantului în superioritatea sa, în buna-credinţă a toleranţei sale, în siguranţa neştiutoare şi candidă cu care îl tratează instinctiv pe omul religios ca pe un tip mediocru şi inferior, pe care el l-a întrecut, l-a ocolit, l-a depăşit, - el, micul spiriduş arogant, plebeul sprinten şi harnic, meşteşugarul intelectual şi manual al „ideilor', al „ideilor moderne'!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To be unable to take his enemies, his misfortunes and even his misdeeds seriously for long – that is the sign of strong, rounded natures with a superabundance of a power which is flexible, formative, healing and can make one forget..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The closer men wanted to get to the problem of how the definite could ever fall from the indefinite, the ephemeral from the eternal, the unjust from the just, the deeper grew the night." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I am utterly amazed, utterly enchanted. I have a precursor, and what a precursor! I hardly knew Spinoza: that I should have turned to him just now, was inspired by 'instinct'. Not only his over-all tendency like mine–making knowledge the most powerful affect–but in the five main points of his doctrine I recognize myself; this most unusual and loneliest figure is closest to me precisely in these matters: he denies the freedom of the will, teleology, the moral world order, the unegoistic, and evil. Even though the divergences are admittedly tremendous, they are due more to the difference in time, culture and science. In Summa: my lonesomeness, which, as on very high mountains, often made it hard for me to breathe and made my blood rush out, is now at least a twosomeness. Strange." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"After a Great Victory.-The best thing in a great victory is that it deprives the conqueror of the fear of defeat. "" Why should I not be worsted for once ? "" he says to himself, "" I am now rich enough to stand it." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"لو كنتم آلهة لكان لكم أن تخجلوا من لباسكم" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A mentira mais habitual é aquela com que alguém engana a si mesmo; enganar os outros é, relativamente, a exceção." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Indeed, an altogether new type of free spirit thus gained his first expression: to this day nothing is more foreign and less related to me than the whole European and American species of . I am much more profoundly at odds with them, as incorrigible blockheads and buffoons of ""modern ideas,"" than with any of their opponents. They also want in their own way to ""improve"" mankind, in their own image; against what I am, what I want, they would wage an irreconcilable war if they understood me: all of them still believe in the ""ideal"".―I am the first ." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"and what fantasy can there possibly be in misery? You sense that it will at length grow weary, that it is exhausting itself in constant tension, this inexhaustible fantasy, because after all one matures, outgrows one's former ideals; they are shattered into dust and fragments; and if you have no other life, it behoves you to construct one from those same fragments." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"And what ye have called the world shall but be created by you: your reason, your likeness, your will, you love, shall it itself become! and verily, for your bliss..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We have seen how it is originally language which works on the construction of concepts, a labor taken over in later ages by science. Just as the bee simultaneously constructs cells and fills them with honey, so science works unceasingly on this great columbarium of concepts, the graveyard of perceptions. It is always building new, higher stories and shoring up, cleaning, and renovating the old cells; above all, it takes pains to fill up this monstrously towering framework and to arrange therein the entire empirical world, which is to say, the anthropomorphic world. Whereas the man of action binds his life to reason and its concepts so that he will not be swept away and lost, the scientific investigator builds his hut right next to the tower of science so that he will be able to work on it and to find shelter for himself beneath those bulwarks which presently exist. And he requires shelter, for there are frightful powers which continuously break in upon him, powers which oppose scientific truth with completely different kinds of ""truths"" which bear on their shields the most varied sorts of emblems." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A thing could be true, although it were in the highest degree injurious and dangerous- so that the strength of a mind might me measured by the amount of 'truth' it could endure." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Als 'ein Frevel, als ein Raub an der göttlichen Natur' erscheine hier die Aneignung des Feuers, der erste Schritt 'jeder aufsteigenden Kultur', und diesen 'arischen Mythus', der 'den heroischen Drang' darstelle, 'über den Bann der Individuation hinauszuschreiten', stellt er den 'semitischen Sündenfallmythus [entgegen], in welchem die Neugierde, die lügnerische Vorspiegelung, die Verführbarkeit, die Lüsternheit [...] als der Ursprung des übels angesehen wurde'." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"And when a person goeth through fire for his teaching -- what doth that prove! It is more, verily, when out of one's own burning cometh one's own teaching!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Thucydides and, maybe, Machiavelli's prince are most closely related to me by their unconditional will to fabricate nothing and to see reason in reality—not in 'reason,' and still less in 'morality' . . ." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Human society: it is an attempt—so I teach—a long seeking: it seeketh however the ruler!— —An attempt, my brethren! And NO ""contract""! Destroy, I pray you, destroy that word of the soft-hearted and half-and-half!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Du gehst zu Frauen? Vergiss die Peitsche nicht!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Finally—this is what is most terrible of all—the concept of the good man signifies that one sides with all that is weak, sick, failure, suffering of itself—all that ought to perish: the principle of selection is crossed—an ideal is fabricated from the contradiction against the proud and well-turned-out human being who says Yes, who is sure of the future, who guarantees the future—and he is now called evil.— And all this was believed, as morality! — Ecrasez l'infame!—— [Voltaire's motto: ""Crush the infamy!""]" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A quantum of force is equivalent to a quantum of drive, will, effect—more, it is nothing other than precisely this very driving, willing, effecting, and only owing to the seduction of language (and the fundamental errors of reason that are petrified in it) which conceives and misconceives all effects as conditioned by something that causes effects, by a ""subject"", can it appear otherwise. For just as the popular mind separates the lightning from its flash and takes the latter for an action, for the operation of a subject called lightning, so popular morality also separates strength from expressions of strength, as if there were a neutral substratum behind the strong man, which was free to express strength or not do so. But there is no such substratum; there is no ""being"" behind doing, effecting, becoming; ""the doer"" is merely a fiction added to the deed—the deed is everything." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Oh! Your poverty, ye men, and your sordidness of soul! As much as ye give to your friend, will I give even to my foe, and will not have become poorer thereby. There is comradeship: may there be friendship!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To recognize untruth as a condition of life: that, to be sure, means to resist customary value-sentiments in a dangerous fashion; and a philosophy which ventures to do so places itself, by that act alone, beyond good and evil." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In 'being-in-itself' there is nothing of 'casual-connection,' of 'necessity,' or of 'psychological non-freedom'; there the effect does NOT follow the cause, there 'law' does not obtain. It is WE alone who have devised cause, sequence, reciprocity, relativity, constraint, number, law, freedom, motive, and purpose; and when we interpret and intermix this symbol-world, as 'being-in-itself,' with things, we act once more as we have always acted—MYTHOLOGICALLY." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Therefore… is a new nobility needed: to oppose all mob-rule and all despotism." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Blissful Islands" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"and sons are much more considerate of one another than mothers and daughters." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is precisely he who is becoming who cannot endure the state of becoming." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Kaufmann was nothing if not thorough. He exposed in detail the machinations of Nietzsche's sister Elisabeth to manipulate her brother's texts, and to enlist him in the very causes that he had consistently denounced. Her crude prejudices, including a heavy dose of anti-Semitism, had nothing in common with her brother's philosophy." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"with its aid one can play the tyrant; one compromises by conquering. The dialectician leaves it to his opponent to demonstrate he is not an idiot: he enrages, he at the same time makes helpless. The dialectician devitalizes his opponent's intellect." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The ""free"" man, the possessor of a protracted and unbreakable will, also possesses his measure of value: looking out upon othersfrom himself, he honors or he despises; and just as he is bound to honor his peers, the strong and reliable (those with the right tomake promises)—that is, all those who promise like sovereigns, reluctantly, rarely, slowly, who are chary of trusting, whose trust is a mark of distinction, who give their word as something that can be relied on because they know themselves strong enough to maintain it in the face of accidents, even ""in the face of fate""—he is bound to reserve a kick for the feeble windbags who promise without the right to do so, and a rod for the liar who breaks his word even at the moment he utters it." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Not to cleave to our own virtues, nor become as a whole a victim to any of our specialties, to our ""hospitality"" for instance, which is the danger of dangers for highly developed and wealthy souls, who deal prodigally, almost indifferently with themselves, and push the virtue of liberality so far that it becomes a vice. One must know how TO CONSERVE ONESELF—the best test of independence." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"State is the name of the coldest of all cold monsters. It even lies coldly, and this lie crawls out of its mouth: 'I, the state, am the people.' This is a lie! The ones who created the peoples were the creators, they hung a faith and a love over them, and thus they served life. The ones who set traps for the many and call them 'state' are annihilators, they hang a sword and a hundred cravings over them. Where there are still peoples the state is not understood, and it is hated as the evil eye and the sin against customs and rights. This" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In fact, for the longest time on Earth, philosophy would not have been at all possible without an ascetic cover and costume, without an ascetic misunderstanding." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"به انجام رساندن کارهای بزرگ دشوار است اما دشوارتر از آن فرمان دادن به کارهای بزرگ است." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Consciousness is the last and latest development of the organic, and consequently also the most unfinished and least powerful of these developments. Innumerable mistakes originate out of consciousness, which, ""in spite of fate,"" as Homer says, cause an animal or a man to break down earlier than might be necessary. If the conserving bond of the instincts were not very much more powerful, it would not generally serve as a regulator: by perverse judging and dreaming with open eyes, by superficiality and credulity, in short, just by consciousness, mankind would necessarily have broken down: or rather, without the former there would long ago have been nothing more of the latter!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Today we possess science precisely to the extent to which we have decided to accept the testimony of the senses—to the extent to which we sharpen them further, arm them, and have learned to think them through. The rest is miscarriage and not-yet-science—in other words, metaphysics, theology, psychology, epistemology—or formal science, a doctrine of signs, such as logic and that applied logic which is called mathematics. In them reality is not encountered at all, not even as a problem—no more than the question of the value of such a sign convention as logic." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Man is a rope stretched between the animal and Superman – a rope over an abyss – a dangerous crossing, a dangerous wayfaring, a dangerous looking back, a dangerous trembling and halting. What is great in man is that he is a bridge and not a goal; what is lovable in man is that he is an over-going and a down-going… I love those who do not first seek a reason beyond the stars for going down and being sacrifices, but sacrifice themselves to the earth, that the earth of the Superman many hereafter arrive." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"to use the theater as an institution for the moral education of the people, is already reckoned among the incredible antiques of a dated type of education. While the critic got the upper hand in the theater and concert hall, the journalist in the schools, and the press in society, art degenerated into a particularly lowly topic of conversation, and aesthetic criticism was used as a means of uniting a vain, distracted, selfish, and moreover piteously unoriginal sociability." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What is it that we combat in Christianity? That it aims at destroying the strong, at breaking their spirit, at exploiting their moments of weariness and debility, at converting proud assurance into anxiety and conscience trouble; that it knows how to poison the noblest instincts and to infect them with disease until their strength, their will to power, turns inwards, against themselves — until the strong perish from excessive self contempt and self-immolation: that gruesome way of perishing, of which Pascal is the most famous example." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"For only he who is man enough will release the woman in woman." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Or is there such a thing as strong pessimism? A penchant of the mind for what is hard, terrible, evil, dubious in existence. arising from a plethora of health, plentitude of being! Could it be, perhaps, that the very feeling of superabundance created its own kind of suffering: a temerity of penetration, hankering for the enemy (the worth-while enemy) so as to prove its strength, to experience at last what it means to fear something? What meaning did the tragic myth have for the Greeks during the period of their greatest power and courage? And what of the Dionysiac spirit so tremendous in its implications? What of the tragedy that grew out of that spirit!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"And often with our love we want merely to overleap envy. And often we attack and make ourselves enemies, to conceal that we are vulnerable." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In all ages one has wanted to ‘improve' men: this above all is what morality has meant. But one word can conceal the most divergent tendencies. Both the taming of the beast man and the breeding of a certain species of man has been called ‘improvement':" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"if you therefore want to depress and minimise man's capacity for pain, well, you must also depress and minimise his capacity for enjoyment." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"CUSTOM AND MORALITY. To be moral, correct, and virtuous is to be obedient to an old established law and custom. Whether we submit with difficulty or willingly is immaterial, enough that we do so. He is called ""good"" who, as if naturally, after long precedent, easily and willingly, therefore, does what is right, according to whatever this may be (as, for instance, taking revenge, if to take revenge be considered as right, as amongst the ancient Greeks). He is called good because he is good ""for something""; but as goodwill, pity, consideration, moderation, and such like, have come, with the change in manners, to be looked upon as ""good for something', as useful, the good natured and helpful have, later on, come to be distinguished specially as ""good"". (In the beginning other and more important kinds of usefulness stood in the foreground.) To be evil is to be ""not moral"" (immoral), to be immoral is to be in opposition to tradition, however sensible or stupid it may be; injury to the community (the ""neighbour"" being understood thereby) has, however, been looked upon by the social laws of all different ages as being eminently the actual ""immorality' so that now at the word ""evil"" we immediately think of voluntary injury to one's neighbour. The fundamental antithesis which has taught man the distinction between moral and immoral, between good and evil, is not the ""egoistic"" and ""unegoistic' but the being bound to the tradition, law, and solution thereof. How the tradition has arisen is immaterial, at all events without regard to good and evil or any immanent categorical imperative, but above all for the purpose of preserving a community, a generation, an association, a people; every superstitious custom that has arisen on account of some falsely explained accident, creates a tradition, which it is moral to follow; to separate one's self from it is dangerous, but more dangerous for the community than for the individual (because the Godhead punishes the community for every outrage and every violation of its rights, and the individual only in proportion). Now every tradition grows continually more venerable, the farther off lies its origin, the more this is lost sight of; the generation paid it accumulates from generation to generation, the tradition at last becomes holy and excites awe; and thus in any case the morality of piety is a much older morality than that which requires un egoistic actions." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Dove la moralità è troppo forte l'intelletto perisce." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Let us face facts: the people have triumphed — or the slaves, the mob, the herd or what ever you like to call them ... Masters have been abolished; the morals of the common man have triumphed... Mankind's ‘redemption' (namely from its masters) is well under way; everything is becoming visibly Judified or Christified or mobified (what do words matter!). To arrest this poison's progress throughout the body of mankind seems impossible..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When we look out for the Barbarian, we look in the depths. But there is another type of Barbarian, who comes from the heights." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"[I]t has been eagerly pointed out how much the Greeks could find and learn abroad, in the Orient, and how many different things they may easily have brought from there. Of course an odd spectacle resulted, when certain scholars brought together the alleged masters from the Orient and the possible disciples from Greece, and exhibited Zarathustra near Heraclitus, the Hindoos near the Eleates, the Egyptians near Empedocles, or even Anaxagoras among the Jews and Pythagoras among the Chinese. In detail little has been determined; but we should in no way object to the general idea, if people did not burden us with the conclusion that therefore Philosophy had only been imported into Greece and was not indigenous to the soil, yea, that she, as something foreign, had possibly ruined rather than improved the Greek. Nothing is more foolish than to swear by the fact that the Greeks had an aboriginal culture; no, they rather absorbed all the culture flourishing among other nations, and they advanced so far, just because they understood how to hurl the spear further from the very spot where another nation had let it rest." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Reason in language- oh what an old deceptive female she is! I am afraid we are not rid of God because we still have faith in grammar." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Today we no longer have any pity for the concept of ""free will"": we know only too well what it really is — the foulest of all theologians' artifices, aimed at making mankind ""responsible"" in their sense, that is, dependent upon them. Here I simply supply the psychology of all ""making responsible""." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What power was it which liberated Prometheus from his vultures and transformed myth to a vehicle of Dionysian wisdom? It was the Herculean power of music. Music, which attained its highest manifestation in tragedy, had the power to interpret myth with a new significance in the most profound manner, something we have already described before as the most powerful capacity of music." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One must be prepared to sacrifice all desirability to truth, every truth, even plain, harsh, ugly, repellent, unchristian, immoral truth.―For such truths do exist" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"undaunted men of the blackest midnight? — This world is the Will to Power — and nothing else! And even ye yourselves are this will to power — and nothing besides!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"And he who must be a creator of good and evil: truly, he must first be a destroyer and break values. Thus the greatest evil belongs with the greatest good: that, however, is the creative good. Let us speak of this, you wisest men, even if it be bad. To be silent is worse; all suppressed truths become poisonous. And let everything break that is able to be broken by our truths! Many a house is still to be built!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"adventurers and circumnavigators of that inner world which is called 'human being," -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Truth is the kind of error without which a certain species of life could not live. The value for life is ultimately decisive." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The sciences, pursued without any restraint and in a spirit of the blindest laissez faire, are shattering and dissolving all firmly held belief; the educated classes and states are being swept along by a hugely contemptible money economy. The world has never been more worldly, never poorer in love and goodness. The educated classes are no longer lighthouses or refuges in the midst of this turmoil of secularization; they themselves grow daily more restless, thoughtless and loveless. Everything, contemporary art and science included, serves the coming barbarism. The cultured man has degenerated to the greatest enemy of culture, for he wants lyingly to deny the existence of the universal sickness and thus obstructs the physicians." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"And if something great fails you, does that mean you yourselves are—failures? And if you yourselves are failures, does that mean—the human being is a failure? But if the human being is a failure: well then! come now!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"[On Marriage and Children] You shall build over and beyond yourself, but first you must be built yourself, perpendicular in body and soul." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The ascetic ideal has an aim — this goal is, putting it generally, that all the other interests of human life should, measured by its standard, appear petty and narrow; it explains epochs, nations, men, in reference to this one end; it forbids any other interpretation, any other end; it repudiates, denies, affirms, confirms, only in the sense of its own interpretation (and was there ever a more thoroughly elaborated system of interpretation?); it subjects itself to no power, rather does it believe in its own precedence over every power — it believes that nothing powerful exists in the world that has not first got to receive from 'it' a meaning, a right to exist, a value, as being an instrument in its work, a way and means to its end, to one end. Where is the counterpart of this complete system of will, end, and interpretation? Why is the counterpart lacking? Where is the other 'one aim'? But I am told it is not lacking, that not only has it fought a long and fortunate fight with that ideal, but that further it has already won the mastery over that ideal in all essentials: let our whole modern science attest this — that modern science, which, like the genuine reality-philosophy which it is, manifestly believes in itself alone, manifestly has the courage to be itself, the will to be itself, and has got on well enough without God, another world, and negative virtues." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Além todo o discurso é vão! A melhor sabedoria é esquecer e passar: foi isto que aprendeste agora." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"نابخشودنی ترین چیز در تو این است که قدرت داری و فرمان نمی خواهی راند" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The ascetic ideal has an aim - this goal is, putting it generally, that all the other interests of human life should, measured by its standard, appear petty and narrow; it explains epochs, nations, men, in reference to this one end; it forbids any other interpretation, any other end; it" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Towards the throne they all strive: it is their madness—as if happiness sat on the throne! Ofttimes sitteth filth on the throne.—and ofttimes also the throne on filth." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Nós, homens do conhecimento, não nos conhecemos; de nós mesmos somos desconhecidos - e não sem motivo. Nunca nos procuramos: como poderia acontecer que um dia nos encontrássemos? Com razão alguém disse:'onde estiver teu tesouro, estará também teu coração'. Nosso tesouro está onde estão as colmeias do nosso conhecimento. Estamos sempre a caminho delas, sendo por natureza criaturas aladas e coletoras do mel do espírito, tendo no coração apenas um propósito - levar algo 'para casa'. Quanto ao mais da vida, as chamadas 'vivências', qual de nós pode levá-las a sério? Ou ter tempo para elas? Nas experiências presentes, receio, estamos sempre 'ausentes': nelas não temos nosso coração - para elas não remos ouvidos. Antes, como alguém divinamente disperso e imerso em si, a quem os sinos acabam de estrondear no ouvido as doze batidas do meio-dia, e súbito acorda e se pergunta 'o que foi que soou?', também nós por vezes abrimos depois os ouvidos e perguntamos, surpresos e perplexos inteiramente, 'o que foi que vivemos?', e também 'quem somos realmente?', e em seguida contamos, depois, como disse, as doze vibrantes batidas da nossa vivência, da nossa vida, do nosso ser - ah! e contamos errado... Pois continuamos necessariamente estranhos a nós mesmos, não nos compreendemos, temos que nos mal-entender, a nós se aplicará para sempre a frase: 'cada qual é o mais distante de si mesmo' - para nós mesmos somos 'homens do desconhecimento'..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Kalian tak akan pernah bahagia karena kesalahan kalian di masa lalu." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"No nos engañemos: todos los grandes espíritus son escépticos. Zaratustra lo es." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"One has watched life badly if one has not also seen the hand that considerately--kills." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Every series of evolutions, according to them, was presided over by a prophet; and every prophet had his 'Hazar,'—his dynasty of a thousand years."" All" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is a myth to believe that we will find our authentic self after we have left behind or forgotten one thing or another . . . To make our selves, to shape a form from various elements – that is the task! The task of a sculptor! Of a productive human being!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Those who inflate themselves are cursedWhen pricked by a small pin to burst." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"No, life has not disappointed me. On the contrary, I find it truer, more desirable and mysterious every year – ever since the day when the great liberator came to me: the idea that life could be an experiment of the seeker for knowledge and not a duty, not a calamity, not trickery. – And knowledge itself: let it be something else for others; for example, a bed to rest on, or the way to such a bed, or a diversion, or a form of leisure – for me it is a world of dangers and victories in which heroic feelings, too, find places to dance and play. 'Life as a means to knowledge' – with this principle in one's heart one can live not only boldly but even gaily, and laugh gaily too. And who knows how to laugh anyway and live well if he does not first know a good deal about war and victory?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Saintly Cruelty. A man holding a newly born child in his hands came to a saint. ""What should I do with this child,"" he asked, ""it is wretched, deformed, and has not even enough of life to die"" ""Kill it,"" cried the saint with a dreadful voice ""kill it, and then hold it in thy arms for three days and three nights to brand it on thy memory thus wilt thou never again beget a child when it is not the time for thee to beget."" When the man had heard this he went away disappointed; and many found fault with the saint because he had advised cruelty; for he had advised to kill the child. ""But is it not more cruel to let it live? asked the saint." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We are nobler. Loyalty, magnanimity, care for one's reputation: these three united in a single disposition we call noble, and in this quality we excel the Greeks. Let us not abandon it, as we might be tempted to do as a result of feeling that the ancient objects of these virtues have lost in estimation (and rightly), but see to it that this precious inherited drive is applied to new objects. To grasp how, from the viewpoint of our own aristocracy, which is still chivalrous and feudal in nature, the disposition of even the noblest Greeks has to seem of a lower sort and, indeed, hardly decent, one should recall the words with which Odysseus comforted himself in ignominious situations: 'Endure it, my dear heart! you have already endured the lowest things!' And, as a practical application of this mythical model, one should add the story of the Athenian officer who, threatened with a stick by another officer in the presence of the entire general staff, shook this disgrace from himself with the words: 'Hit me! But also hear me!' (This was Themistocles, that dextrous Odysseus of the classical age, who was certainly the man to send down to his 'dear heart' those lines of consolation at so shameful a moment.) The Greeks were far from making as light of life and death on account of an insult as we do under the impress of inherited chivalrous adventurousness and desire for self-sacrifice; or from Seeking out opportunities for risking both in a game of honour, as we do in duels; or from valuing a good name (honour) more highly than the acquisition of a bad name if the latter is compatible with fame and the feeling of power; or from remaining loyal to their class prejudices and articles of faith if these could hinder them from becoming tyrants. For this is the ignoble secret of every good Greek aristocrat: out of the profoundest jealousy he considers each of his peers to stand on an equal footing with him, but is prepared at any moment to leap like a tiger upon his prey, which is rule over them all: what are lies, murder, treachery, selling his native city, to him then! This species of man found justice extraordinarily difficult and regarded it as something nearly incredible; 'the just man' sounded to the Greeks like 'the saint' does among Christians. But when Socrates went so far as to say: 'the virtuous man is the happiest man' they did not believe their ears and fancied they had heard something insane. For when he pictures the happiest man, every man of noble origin included in the picture the perfect ruthlessness and devilry of the tyrant who sacrifices everyone and everything to his arrogance and pleasure. Among people who secretly revelled in fantasies of this kind of happiness, respect for the state could, to be sure, not be implanted deeply enough but I think that people whose lust for power no longer rages as blindly as that of those noble Greeks also no longer require the idolisation of the concept of the state with which that lust was formerly kept in check." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"That excepted, what can one not endure in the way of need, privation, bad weather, sickness, toil, solitude? In point of fact, one manages to get over everything, born as one is to a burrowing and battling existence; one always returns once again to the light, one always lives again one's golden hour of victory – and then one stands as one was born, unbreakable, tense, ready for something more difficult, for something more distant, like a bow stretched but the tauter by every strain." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The concept ‘beyond', ‘true world' invented in order to devalue the only world there is—in order to retain no goal, no reason, no task for our earthly reality!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Así me dijo el demonio una vez: «También Dios tiene su infierno: es su amor a los hombres.»" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Even the slightest trace of piety in us ought to make us feel that a God who cures a headcold at the right moment or tells us to get into a coach just as a downpour is about to start is so absurd a God he would have to be abolished even if he existed." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Aside from a few philosophers, men have always placed pity rather low in the hierarchy of moral feelings—and rightly so." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"He fascinated because he touched on the agonal instinct of the Hellenes – he introduced a variation into the wrestling-matches among the youths and young men. Socrates was also a great erotic." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Das Individuum musste immer darum kämpfen, nicht von der Horde überwältigt zu werden. Wer es versucht, wird sehr oft einsam sein und manchmal voller Furcht. Doch kein Preis ist zu hoch für das Privileg, sich selbst zu gehören." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"He who seeketh may easily get lost himself. All isolation is wrong': so say the herd. And long didst thou belong to the herd. The voice of the herd will still echo in thee. And when thou sayest, 'I have no longer a conscience in common with you,' then will it be a plaint and a pain." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"life itself is will to power; self-preservation is only one of the indirect and most frequent results thereof." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The invention of the laws of number has as its basis the primordial and prior-prevailing delusion that many like things exist (although in point of fact there is no such thing is a duplicate), or that, at least, there are things (but there is no 'thing'). The assumption of plurality always presupposes that something exists which manifests itself repeatedly, but just here is where the delusion prevails; in this very matter we feign realities, unities, that have no existence." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"(The Germans invented gunpowder—all credit to them! but they again made things square—they invented printing.)" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Yo desprecio tu desprecias; y puesto que me has advertido a mí, ¿por qué no te advertiste a ti?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Behind thy thoughts and feelings, my brother, there is a mighty lord, an unknown sage—it is called Self; it dwelleth in thy body, it is thy body. There" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"No small art is it to sleep: it is necessary for that purpose to keep awake all day." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"what happened in old times with the Stoics still happens today, as soon as ever a philosophy begins to believe in itself. It always creates the world in its own image; it cannot do otherwise; philosophy is this tyrannical impulse itself, the most spiritual Will to Power, the will to 'creation of the world,' the will to the causa prima." -Friedrich Nietzsche
". Whoever wants really to get to know something new (be it a person, an event, or a book) does well to take up this new thing with all possible love, to avert his eye quickly from, even to forget, everything about it that he finds inimical, objectionable, or false. So, for example, we give the author of a book the greatest possible head start, and, as if at a race, virtually yearn with a pounding heart for him to reach his goal. By doing this, we penetrate into the heart of the new thing, into its motive center: and this is what it means to get to know it. Once we have got that far, reason then sets its limits; that overestimation, that occasional unhinging of the critical pendulum, was just a device to entice the soul of a matter out into the open." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"La cel ce vrea să fie drept până-n adâncul sufletului chiar şi minciuna devine filantropie." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A man whose sense of shame has some profundity encounters his destinies and delicate decisions, too, on paths which few ever reach and of whose mere existence his closest intimates must not know: his mortal danger is concealed from their eyes, and so is his regained sureness of life." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"No small art is it to sleep: it is necessary for that purpose to keep awake all day.Ten times a day must thou overcome thyself: that causeth wholesome weariness, and is poppy to the soul.Ten times must thou reconcile again with thyself; for overcoming is bitterness, and badly sleep the unreconciled.Ten truths must thou find during the day; otherwise wilt thou seek truth during the night, and thy soul will have been hungry.Ten times must thou laugh during the day, and be cheerful; otherwise thy stomach, the father of affliction, will disturb thee in the night." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"¿Eres para tu amigo aire puro y soledad, pan y medicina? Hay quienes no pueden desatar sus propias cadenas y sin embargo son salvadores para sus amigos." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"IF there were gods, how could I endure it to be no God!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Said ye ever Yea to one joy? O my friends, then said ye Yea also unto all woe. All things are enlinked, enlaced and enamoured," -Friedrich Nietzsche
"All the means by which one has so far attempted to make mankind moral were through and through immoral." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"En küçüğünde de en büyüğünde de, mutluluğu mutluluk yapan tek bir şeydir: bu da unutabilmek, ya da daha bilgince bir anlatımla, mutluluk sürdükçe tarihdışı duyumsayabilmek yeteneğidir." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"They encounter a sick man or an old man or a corpse, and immediately they say, 'Life is refuted.' But only they themselves are refuted, and their eyes, which see only this one face of existence." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Thus I spoke, and always more softly, for I was afraid of my thoughts, and of the thoughts behind my thoughts. Then, suddenly I heard a dog howl near me." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I love him who justifies the future ones, and redeems the past ones: for he is willing to perish through the present ones." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"where is the deceiver to be found?' – ‘We've got it,' they cry in delight, ‘it is the senses! These senses, which are so immoral as well, it is they which deceive us about the real world. Moral: escape from sense-deception, from becoming, from history, from falsehood – history is nothing but belief in the senses, belief in falsehood." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I know what those who want to interrupt the beneficent, healthy sleep of the people really want. They constantly cry to the people: ‘Wake up! Become conscious! Be smart!'—and even as they pretend that the extraordinary increase in the number of schools, and the creation of a proud class of teachers in consequence, satisfies a powerful need for education, I know their real goal. They are fighting, and this is how they fight, against the natural hierarchy in the empire of the intellect; they seek to destroy the roots of the highest and noblest cultural powers that, bursting forth from the popular unconscious, have a maternal destiny: to give birth to, raise, and nurture genius." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The rest is abortion and not-yet-science: which is to say metaphysics, theology, psychology, epistemology." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Ich liebe die großen Verachtenden, weil sie die großen Verehrenden sind und Pfeile der Sehnsucht nach dem andern Ufer." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Severim batmaktan başka bir yaşam bilmeyenleri." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"For the situation is this: our greatest peril lurks in the European drift towards egalitarianism, for it is this prospect which wearies us – we see today nothing which wishes to be greater, we surmise that everything is still, retreating, going backwards, regressing towards something more reserved, more inoffensive, more cunning, more comfortable, more mediocre, more indifferent, more Chinese,66 more Christian – man, there is no doubt about it, grows always ‘better' … the destiny of Europe lies precisely in this – that in losing our fear of man, we have also lost the hope in man, respect for man, the will to be man. The sight of man now wearies us – what is present-day nihilism if it is not that? … We are tired of man." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Every kind of perfection is purchased at a high price on earth, where everything is perhaps purchased too dear; one is an expert in one's department at the price of being also a victim of one's department." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"as though the Universe itself were under an obligation to bother itself about them, for it never gets tired of wrapping up God Himself in the petty misery in which its troubles are involved. And" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is true: we love life, not because we are used to living but because we are used to loving.There is always a certain madness in love. But also there is always a certain method in madness." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Brave people are persuaded to an action when it is represented as more dangerous than it is." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"today, as soon as ever a philosophy begins to believe in itself. It always creates the world in its own image; it cannot do otherwise; philosophy is this tyrannical impulse itself, the most spiritual Will to Power, the will to ""creation of the world,"" the will to the causa prima." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"That Luther's Reformation succeeded in the North suggests that the north of Europe was retarded compared to the south..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Let us not underestimate this fact: that we ourselves, we free spirits, are already a 'transvaluation of all values,' a visualized declaration of war and victory against all the old concepts of 'true' and 'not true.' The most valuable intuitions are the last to be attained; the most valuable of all are those which determine methods. All the methods, all the principles of the scientific spirit of today, were the targets for thousands of years of the most profound contempt; if a man inclined to them he was excluded from the society of 'decent' people — he passed as 'an enemy of God,' as a scoffer at the truth, as one 'possessed." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The sea storms: all is in the sea." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Verily, too early died that Hebrew whom the preachers of slow death honour: and to many hath it proved a calamity that he died too early.   As yet had he known only tears, and the melancholy of the Hebrews, together with the hatred of the good and just—the Hebrew Jesus: then was he seized with the longing for death.   Had he but remained in the wilderness, and far from the good and just! Then, perhaps, would he have learned to live, and love the earth—and laughter also!   Believe it, my brethren! He died too early; he himself would have disavowed his doctrine had he attained to my age! Noble enough was he to disavow!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"You have heard me call for philosophers to place themselves beyond good and evil, - to rise above the illusion of moral judgment.This call is the result of an insight that I was the first to formulate: there are absolutely no moral facts.What moral and religious judgments have in common is the belief in things that are not real.Morality is just an interpretation of certain phenomena or (more accurately) a mis-interpretation.Moral judgments, like religious ones, presuppose a level of ignorance in which even the concept of reality is missing and there is no distinction between the real and the imaginary; a level where 'truth' is the name for the very things that we now call 'illusions'.That is why moral judgments should never be taken literally: on their own, they are just absurdities.But semiotically, they are invaluable: if you know what to look for, moral judgments reveal the most valuable realities of the cultures and interiorities that did not know enough to 'understand' themselves.Morality is just a sign language, just a symptomatology: you have to know what it means in order to take advantage of it." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"there is nothing of all that whereof thou speakest: there is no devil and no hell. Thy soul will be dead even sooner than thy body: fear, therefore, nothing any more!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Every inch of truth has been conquered only after a struggle, almost everything to which our heart, our love and our trust in life cleaves, has had to be sacrificed for it. Greatness of soul is necessary for this: the service of truth is the hardest of all services. — What then is meant by honesty in things intellectual? It means that a man is severe towards his own heart, that he scorns 'beautiful feelings,' and that he makes a matter of conscience out of every Yea and Nay!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Great poets create only from their own reality―to the point where they cannot stand their work any more afterwards ... Whenever I glance through my Zarathustra, I walk around the room for half an hour, sobbing uncontrollably." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"but the higher you climb, the smaller you appear to the eye of envy. And he who flies is hated most of all." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"the overall aspect of life is not a state of need and hunger, but instead, wealth, bounty, even absurd squandering—where there is struggle, it is a struggle for power… One should not confuse Malthus with nature." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Believe me, friend Hellishnoise: the greatest events—they are not our loudest but our stillest hours." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"For in one's heart one loveth only one's child and one's work; and where there is great love to oneself, then is it the sign of pregnancy: so have I found it." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Weariness, which seeketh to get to the ultimate with one leap, with a death-leap; a poor ignorant weariness, unwilling even to will any longer: that created all Gods and backworlds." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"This cup wants to become empty again, and Zarathustra wants to become human again." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Culture and the state — one should not deceive oneself over this — are antagonists: the ′cultural state′ is merely a modern idea. The one lives off the other, the one thrives at the expense of the other. All great cultural epochs are epochs of political decline: that which is great in the cultural sense has been unpolitical, even anti-political." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Nihilism stands at the door: whence comes this uncanniest of all guests?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There exists in the worlda single path along whichno one can go except you:whither does it lead?Do not ask, go along it." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"لقد ماتت كل الآلهة, والآن تريد أن يحيا الإنسان الأعلى" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The fact that education, that development–and not ‘the Reich'–is itself a goal, the fact that you need educators–and not schoolteachers or university scholars–to reach this goal, people have forgotten this" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There cometh the time of the most despicable man, who can no longer despise himself.Lo! I show you THE LAST MAN.""What is love? What is creation? What is longing? What is a star?""--so asketh the last man and blinketh.The earth hath then become small, and on it there hoppeth the last man who maketh everything small. His species is ineradicable like that of the ground-flea; the last man liveth longest." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The infuriating thing about an individual way of living. People are always angry at anyone who chooses very individual standards for his life; because of the extraordinary treatment which that man grants to himself, they feel degraded, like ordinary beings." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The liar is a person who uses the valid designations, the words, in order to make something which is unreal appear to be real. He says, for example, ""I am rich,"" when the proper designation for his condition would be ""poor."" He misuses fixed conventions by means of arbitrary substitutions or even reversals of names. If he does this in a selfish and moreover harmful manner, society will cease to trust him and will thereby exclude him. What men avoid by excluding the liar is not so much being defrauded as it is being harmed by means of fraud. Thus, even at this stage, what they hate is basically not deception itself, but rather the unpleasant, hated consequences of certain sorts of deception. It is in a similarly restricted sense that man now wants nothing but truth: he desires the pleasant, life-preserving consequences of truth. He is indifferent toward pure knowledge which has no consequences; toward those truths which are possibly harmful and destructive he is even hostilely inclined. And besides, what about these linguistic conventions themselves? Are they perhaps products of knowledge, that is, of the sense of truth? Are designations congruent with things? Is language the adequate expression of all realities? It is only by means of forgetfulness that man can ever reach the point of fancying himself to possess a ""truth"" of the grade just indicated. If he will not be satisfied with truth in the form of tautology, that is to say, if he will not be content with empty husks, then he will always exchange truths for illusions. What is a word? It is the copy in sound of a nerve stimulus. But the further inference from the nerve stimulus to a cause outside of us is already the result of a false and unjustifiable application of the principle of sufficient reason. If truth alone had been the deciding factor in the genesis of language, and if the standpoint of certainty had been decisive for designations, then how could we still dare to say ""the stone is hard,"" as if ""hard"" were something otherwise familiar to us, and not merely a totally subjective stimulation! We separate" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Ah, ye brethren, that God whom I created was human work and human madness, like all the Gods! A man was he, and only a poor fragment of a man and ego. Out of mine own ashes and glow it came unto me, that phantom." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"and for the first time in his life he realised the whole horror of that loneliness to which, perhaps, all greatness is condemned. But to be forsaken is something very different from deliberately choosing blessed loneliness. How he longed, in those days, for the ideal friend who would thoroughly understand him, to whom he would be able to say all, and whom he imagined he had found at various periods in his life from his earliest youth onwards. Now, however, that the way he had chosen grew ever more perilous and steep, he found nobody who could follow him: he therefore created a perfect friend for himself in the ideal form of a majestic philosopher, and made this creation the preacher of his gospel to the world. Whether" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In all truly productive men instinct is the strong, affirmative force and reason the dissuader and critic." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"And just look at these men: their eye saith it - they know nothing better on earth than to be with a woman.Filth is at the bottom of their souls; and alas! If their filth hath spirit in it!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"If there is no priveleged being, if there is only one being, then we are also with a pluralism. Each expression of being becomes in its own way without reference or relation to any grounded being. No expression of being is in itself good or evil; there is no separate ordering principle for the world. Values and relations (such as good and evil) are selected from within life, and always from the point of view of some specific becoming." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The strongest knowledge—that of the total unfreedom of the human will—is nonetheless the poorest in successes, for it always has the strongest opponent: human vanity." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When women hate. When feeling hatred, women are more dangerous than men. First and foremost because once their hostile feeling has been aroused, they are inhibited by no considerations of fairness but let their hatred swell undisturbed to the final consequences; and second, because they are practiced in finding sore spots (which every man, every party has) and stabbing there: then their rapier-sharp mind performs splendid services for them (while men, when they see wounds, become restrained, often generous and conciliatory)." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I want to teach them what is understood by so few today, least of all by those preachers of pity: to share not suffering but joy." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The so-called ‘ego' — We are none of us that which we appear to be in accordance with the states for which alone we have consciousness and words, and consequently praise and blame; those cruder outbursts of which alone we are aware make us misunderstand ourselves, we draw a conclusion on the basis of data in which the exceptions outweigh the rule, we misread ourselves in this apparently most intelligible of handwriting on the nature of our self. Our opinion of ourself, however, which we have arrived at by this erroneous path, the so-called ‘ego', is thenceforth a fellow worker in the construction of our character and our destiny. —" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"As long as this imitation-thinking continues to be recognised by the state, the lasting effect of a true philosophy will be destroyed, or at any rate circumscribed; nothing does this so well as the curse of ridicule that the representatives of the great cause have drawn on them, for it attacks that cause itself. And so I think it will encourage culture to deprive philosophy of its political and academic standing, and relieve state and university of the task, impossible for them, of deciding between true and false philosophy. Let the philosophers run wild, forbid them any thoughts of office or civic position, hold them out no more bribes,—nay, rather persecute them and treat them ill,—you will see a wonderful result. They will flee in terror and seek a roof where they can, these poor phantasms; one will become a parson, another a schoolmaster, another will creep into an editorship, another write school-books for young ladies' colleges, the wisest of them will plough the fields, the vainest go to court. Everything will be left suddenly empty, the birds flown: for it is easy to get rid of bad philosophers,—one only has to cease paying them. And that is a better plan than the open patronage of any philosophy, whatever it be, for state reasons." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I dream of a love that is more than two people craving to possess one another . . . I dream of a love in which two people share a passion to search together for some higher truth. Perhaps I should not call it love. Perhaps it's real name is friendship." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The more lofty philosophical man who is surrounded by loneliness, not because he wishes to be alone, but because he is what he is, and cannot find his equal: what a number of dangers and torments are reserved for him, precisely at the present time, when we have lost our belief in the order of rank, and consequently no longer know how to understand or honour this isolation! Formerly the sage almost sanctified himself in the consciences of the mob by going aside in this way; to-day the anchorite sees himself as though enveloped in a cloud of gloomy doubt and suspicions. And not alone by the envious and the wretched: in every well-meant act that he experiences he is bound to discover misunderstanding, neglect, and superficiality. He knows the crafty tricks of foolish pity which makes these people feel so good and holy when they attempt to save him from his own destiny, by giving him more comfortable situations and more decent and reliable society. Yes, he will even get to admire the unconscious lust of destruction with which all mediocre spirits stand up and oppose him, believing all the while that they have a holy right to do so! For men of such incomprehensible loneliness it is necessary to put a good stretch of country between them and the officiousness of their fellows: this is part of their prudence. For such a man to maintain himself uppermost to-day amid the dangerous maelstroms of the age which threaten to draw him under, even cunning and disguise will be necessary. Every attempt he makes to order his life in the present and with the present, every time he draws near to these men and their modern desires, he will have to expiate as if it were an actual sin: and withal he may look with wonder at the concealed wisdom of his nature, which after every one of these attempts immediately leads him back to himself by means of illnesses and painful accidents." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Unlearn, I pray you, this 'for,' ye creating ones: your very virtue wisheth you to have naught to do with 'for' and 'on account of' and 'because.' Against these false little words shall ye stop your ears." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Brave and creative men never make pleasure and pain ultimate questions– they are secondary conditions: both of them must be desired when one will attain to something. It is a sign of fatigue and illness in these metaphysicians and religious men, that they should press questions of pleasure and pain into the foreground." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Two thousand years have come and gone—and not a single new god!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Unconsciously we seek the principles and opinions which are suited to our temperament, so that at last it seems as if these principles and opinions had formed our character and given it support and stability, whereas exactly the contrary has taken place." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Mankind unsparingly uses every individual as material to heat its great machines; but what good are the machines when all individuals (that is, mankind) serve only to keep them going? Machines that are their own end--is that the human comedy?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"And this do I say also to the o'erthrowers of statues: It is certainly the greatest folly to throw salt into the sea, and statues into the mud." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"You are treading your path of greatness: now it must call up all your courage that there is no longer a path behind you!You are treading your path of greatness: no one shall steal after you here! Your foot itself has extinguished the path behind you, and above that path stands written: Impossibility." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"أى شئ إذا هى هذه الكنائس إن لم تكن أقبية وقبوراً لله ؟" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"while you pretend to read with rapture the canon of your law in Nature, you want something quite the contrary, you extraordinary stage-players and self-deluders! In your pride you wish to dictate your morals and ideals to Nature, to Nature herself, and to incorporate them therein; you insist that it shall be Nature ""according to the Stoa,"" and would like everything to be made after your own image, as a vast, eternal glorification and generalism of Stoicism!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In the struggle with the English mechanistic dumbing down of the world, Hegel and Schopenhauer (along with Goethe) were unanimous—both of these hostile fraternal geniuses in philosophy, who moved away from each other towards opposite poles of the German spirit and, in the process, wronged each other, as only brothers do." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The highest values in the service of which man ought to live, more particularly when they oppressed and constrained him most—these social values, owing to their tone-strengthening tendencies, were built over men's heads as though they were the will of God or 'reality,' or the actual world, or even a hope of a world to come. Now that the lowly origin of these values has become known, the whole universe seems to have been transvalued and to have lost its significance—but this is only an intermediate stage. 8." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Every state in which anyone other than the statesman has to concern himself with politics is ill organized and deserves to perish by all these politicians." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To the lone-dwellers will I sing my song, and to the twain-dwellers; and unto him who hath still ears for the unheard, will I make the heart heavy with my happiness." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Anyone who cannot manage to invest his will in things at least invests them with a meaning: i.e. he believes there is already a will in them (principle of ‘belief).Anyone who cannot manage to invest his will in things at least invests them with a meaning: i.e. he believes there is already a will in them (principle of ‘belief)." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Causes of the advent of pessimism: the most powerful desires of life have been hitherto the most slandered, so that a curse weighs on life. For we comprehend that these self-same instincts are inseparable from life, and one therefore turns against life. Whereas the mass, which has no feeling at all for this conflict, flourishes, while the conflicted type miscarries and, as a product of degeneration, invites antipathy–that the mediocre, on the other hand, when they pose as the goal and meaning of existence, arouse nausea and indignation. And the individual, faced with this tremendous machinery, loses courage and submits. The herd, the mass, 'society', unlearns modesty and blows up its needs into cosmic and metaphysical values. In this way the whole of existence is vulgarised; and in so far as the mass is dominant it bullies the exceptions, so that they lose faith in themselves and become nihilists.The question 'for what?', after a painful struggle, even victory. That something is a hundred times more important than the question of whether we feel well or not–and consequently whether others feel well or not. The predominance of suffering over pleasure, or its opposite (hedonism) are already signposts to nihilism. For in both cases no ultimate meaning is posited except the appearance of pleasure or pain. But for any worthy man, the value of life is certainly not measured by the standard of these trifles. A suffering might predominate, and in spite of this, a powerful will might exist, a Yes to life, a need and acceptance of this predominance." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Inocencia es el niño, y olvido, un nuevo comienzo, un juego, una rueda que se mueve por sí misma, un primer movimiento, un santo decir sí." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"And if thou gaze long into an abyss, the abyss will also gaze into thee." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There have been more thoughtful and more destructively thoughtful times than ours: times like those in which Buddha appeared, for instance, in which the people themselves, after centuries of sectarian quarrels, had sunk so deeply into the abyss of philosophical dogmas, as, from time to time, European people have done in regard to the fine points of religious dogma.European Pessimism is still in its infancy — a fact which argues against it: it has not yet attained to that prodigious and yearning fixity of sight to which it attained in India once upon a time, and in which nonentity is reflected; there is still too much of the 'ready-made,' and not enough of the 'evolved' in its constitution, too much learned and poetic Pessimism; I mean that a good deal of it has been discovered, invented, and 'created,' but not caused." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A predominance of mandarins always means something is wrong; so do the advent of democracy, international courts in place of war, equal rights for women, the religion of pity, and whatever other symptoms of declining life there are." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"If there are any persons who contest a received opinion ... let us thank them for it, open our minds to listen to them, and rejoice that there is some one to do for us what we otherwise ought, if we have any regard for either the certainty or the vitality of our convictions, to do with much greater labor for ourselves. —John Stuart Mill, On Liberty" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Tanrı baştan savma bir yanıttır, bir nezaketsizliktir biz düşünenlere karşı - hatta aslında baştan savma bir yasaktır bize konulmuş: Düşünmeyeceksiniz!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
". At sunset in Genoa, I heard from a tower a long chiming of bells: it kept on and on, and over the noise of the backstreets, as if insatiable for itself, it rang out into the evening sky and the sea air, so terrible and so childish at the same time, so melancholy. Then I thought of Plato's words and felt them suddenly in my heart: " -Friedrich Nietzsche
"En otro tiempo tenías pasiones y las llamabas malvadas. Pero ahora no tienes más que tus virtudes: han surgido de tus pasiones. Pusiste tu meta suprema en el corazón de aquellas pasiones: entonces se convirtieron en tus virtudes y alegrías. Y aunque fueses de la estirpe de los coléricos o de la de los lujuriosos, o de los fanáticos de su fe o de los vengativos: Al final todas tus pasiones se convirtieron en virtudes y todos tus demonios en ángeles. En otro tiempo tenías perros salvajes en tu mazmorra: pero al final se transformaron en pájaros y en amables cantoras." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Human society: it is an experiment, this I teach — a long search: but it searches for the commander! — an experiment, oh my brothers! And not a 'contract'!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Most of our general feelings – every sort of restraint, pressure, tension, explosion in the play and counter-play of our organs, likewise and especially the condition of the nervus sympathicus – excite our cause-creating drive: we want to have a reason for feeling as we do – for feeling well or for feeling ill. It never suffices us simply to establish the mere fact that we feel as we do: we acknowledge this fact – become conscious of it – only when we have furnished it with a motivation of some kind." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"While each word of Heraclitus expresses the pride and the majesty of truth, but of truth grasped in intuitions rather than attained by the rope ladder of logic, while in Sibylline rapture Heraclitus gazes but does not peer, knows but does not calculate, his contemporary Parmenides stands beside him as counter-image, likewise expressing a type of truth-teller but one formed of ice rather than fire, pouring cold piercing light all around." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Amazingly, the most obvious question fails to occur to our scholars: what is their work, their hurry, their painful frenzy supposed to be for?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There is little manliness here: therefore, their women make themselves manly. For only he who is sufficiently a man will redeem the woman in woman" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"If one had the smallest vestige of superstition in one, it would hardly be possible to set aside completely the idea that one is the mere incarnation, mouthpiece or medium of an almighty power." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The only human right. - He who deviates from the traditional falls victim tothe extraordinary; he who remains in the traditional becomes its slave. Ineither event he perishes." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Everything evil, terrible, tyrannical in man, everything in him that is kin to beasts of prey and serpents, serves the enhancement of the species 'man' as much as its opposite does." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"it is improbable that you are not mistaken, but why should it be the truth?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Dari semua yang tertulis, aku hanya mencintai apa yang ditulis seseorang dengan darahnya sendiri.' --Friedrich Nietzsche (1844-1900)" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"To be incapable of taking one's enemies, one's accidents, even one's misdeeds seriously for very long—that is the sign of strong, full natures in whom there is an excess of the power to form, to mold, to recuperate and to forget . . . here alone genuine 'love of one's enemies' is possible—supposing it to BE possible at all on earth. How much reverence has a noble man for his enemies!—and such reverence is a bridge to love." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The harshest daylight, rationality at any cost, life bright, cold, circumspect, conscious, without instinct, in opposition to the instincts, has itself been no more than a form of sickness, another form of sickness – and by no means a way back to ‘virtue', to ‘health', to happiness…. To have to combat one's instincts – that is the formula for décadence: as long as life is ascending, happiness and instinct are one. –" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Os homens de espírito livre, que vivem só para o conhecimento, em breve acharão ter alcançado a sua definitiva posição relativamente à sociedade e ao Estado e, por exemplo, dar-se-ão de bom grado por satisfeitos com um pequeno emprego ou com uma fortuna que chegue à justa para viver; pois arranjar-se-ão para viver de maneira que uma grande tansformação dos bens materiais, até mesmo um derrube da ordem política, não deite também abaixo a sua vida. Em todas essas coisas eles gastam a menor energia possível, de modo a poderem imergir, com todas as forças reunidas e, por assim dizer, com um grande fôlego, no elemento do conhecimento. Podem, assim, ter esperança de mergulhar profundamente e também de, talvez, verem bem até ao fundo." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Temo que no vamos a desembarazarnos de dios porque seguimos creyendo en la gramática" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In the early Middle Ages, when the Church was in fact above all a menagerie, one everywhere hunted down the fairest specimens of the ‘blond beast'* – one ‘improved', for example, the noble Teutons. But what did such a Teuton afterwards look like when he had been ‘improved' and led into a monastery? Like a caricature of a human being, like an abortion: he had become a ‘sinner'," -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Everything that is of my kind, in nature and history, speaks to me, praises me, spurs me on, comforts me - everything else I don't hear or forget right away. We are always only in our own company." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The most powerful and most dangerous passions of man, of which he can most easily perish, have been outlawed so completely that the most powerful men themselves have become impossible, or have had to feel evil – 'harmful and forbidden.' This loss is considerable, but hitherto it has been unavoidable: now that a host of counterforces has been reared by the temporary suppression of those passions (of lust for power, pleasure in change and deception), it is again possible to unloose them: they will no longer possess their old savagery. We permit ourselves a tame barbarism: just look at our artists and statesmen." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Aristotle, as every one knows, saw in pity a sickly and dangerous state of mind, the remedy for which was an occasional purgative: he regarded tragedy as that purgative. The instinct of life should prompt us to seek some means of puncturing any such pathological and dangerous accumulation of pity as that appearing in Schopenhauer's case (and also, alack, in that of our whole literary décadence, from St. Petersburg to Paris, from Tolstoi to Wagner), that it may burst and be discharged.... Nothing is more unhealthy, amid all our unhealthy modernism, than Christian pity. To be the doctors here, to be unmerciful here, to wield the knife here—all this is our business, all this is our sort of humanity, by this sign we are philosophers, we Hyperboreans!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We uproot the foundation of morality when we uproot boundary-stones." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"As we know, priests make the most evil enemies – but why? Because they are the most powerless. Out of this powerlessness, their hate swells into something huge and uncanny to a most intellectual and poisonous level. The greatest haters in world history, and the most intelligent, have always been priests: – nobody else's intelligence stands a chance against the intelligence of priestly revenge. The history of mankind would be far too stupid a thing if it had not had the intellect of the powerless injected into it..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Our thoughts, values, every ""yes"", ""no"", ""if"" and ""but"" grow from us with the same inevitability as fruits borne on the tree―all related and each with an affinity to each, and evidence of one will, one health, one soil,one sun." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"All is alike, nothing is worth while, knowledge strangleth." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"For the highest man shall also be the highest lord on earth. There is no sorer misfortune in all human destiny, than when the mighty of the earth are not also the first men. Then everything becomes false and distorted and monstrous.And when they are even the last men, and more beast than man, thenrises and rises the populace in honour, and at last says even thepopulace-virtue: 'Behold, I alone am virtue!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"You ask me about the idiosyncrasies of Philosophers? . . . There is their lack of historical sense, their hatred of even the idea of becoming, their Egyptianism. They think they are doing a thing honour when they dehistoricize it, sub specie aeterni – when they make a mummy of it. All that philosophers have handled for millennia has been conceptual mummies; nothing actual has escaped from their hands alive. They kill, they stuff, when they worship, these conceptual idolaters – they become a mortal danger to everything when they worship." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A little poison now and then: that maketh pleasant dreams. And muchpoison at last for a pleasant death.One still worketh, for work is a pastime. But one is careful lest thepastime should hurt one.One no longer becometh poor or rich; both are too burdensome. Who stillwanteth to rule? Who still wanteth to obey? Both are too burdensome.No shepherd, and one herd! Every one wanteth the same; every one is equal:he who hath other sentiments goeth voluntarily into the madhouse" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Even if it should happen to be a rhyme not suited for every one's ears. I unlearned long ago to have consideration for long ears." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There is today perhaps no more firmly credited prejudice than this: that one knows what really constitutes the moral. Today it seems to do everyone good when they hear that society is on the way to adapting the individual to general requirements, and that the happiness and at the same time the sacrifice of the individual lies in feeling himself to be a useful member and instrument of the whole: (...) What is wanted - whether this is admitted or not - is nothing less than a fundamental remoulding, indeed weakening and abolition of the individual" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Creo que los animales ven en el hombre un ser igual a ellos que ha perdido de forma extraordinariamente peligrosa el sano intelecto animal, es decir, que ven en él al animal irracional, al animal que ríe, al animal que llora, al animal infeliz." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The body of knowledge keeps increasing at incredible speed, but the literature of nonknowledge grows even faster." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Reason' is the cause of our falsification of the evidence of the senses. In so far as the senses show becoming, passing away, change, they do not lie.… But Heraclitus will always be right in this, that being is an empty fiction. The ‘apparent' world is the only one: the ‘real' world has only been lyingly added…" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Es necesario ser un mar para poder recibir una sucia corriente sin volverse impuro." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"329  Leisure and Idleness. - There is an Indian savagery, a savagery peculiar to the Indian blood, in the manner in which the Americans strive after gold: and the breathless hurry of their work- the characteristic vice of the New World-already begins to infect old Europe, and makes it savage also, spreading over it a strange lack of intellectuality. One is now ashamed of repose: even long reflection almost causes remorse of conscience. Thinking is done with a stop-watch, as dining is done with the eyes fixed on the financial newspaper; we live like men who are continually "" afraid of letting opportunities slip."" "" Better do anything whatever, than nothing ""-this principle also is a noose with which all culture and all higher taste may be strangled. And just as all form obviously disappears in this hurry of workers, so the sense for form itself, the ear and the eye for the melody of movement, also disappear. The proof of this is the clumsy perspicuity which is now everywhere demanded in all positions where a person would like to be sincere with his fellows, in intercourse with friends, women, relatives, children, teachers, pupils, leaders and princes,-one has no longer either time or energy for ceremonies, for roundabout courtesies, for any esprit in conversation, or for any otium whatever. For life in the hunt for gain continually compels a person to consume his intellect, even to exhaustion, in constant dissimulation, overreaching, or forestalling: the real virtue nowadays is to do something in a shorter time than another person. And so there are only rare hours of sincere intercourse permitted: in them, however, people are tired, and would not only like "" to let themselves go,"" but to stretch their legs out wide in awkward style. The way people write their letters nowadays is quite in keeping with the age; their style and spirit will always be the true "" sign of the times."" If there be still enjoyment in society and in art, it is enjoyment such as over-worked slaves provide for themselves. Oh, this moderation in ""joy"" of our cultured and uncultured classes! Oh, this increasing suspiciousness of all enjoyment! Work is winning over more and more the good conscience to its side: the desire for enjoyment already calls itself "" need of recreation,"" and even begins to be ashamed of itself. "" One owes it to one's health,"" people say, when they are caught at a picnic. Indeed, it might soon go so far that one could not yield to the desire for the vita contemplativa (that is to say, excursions with thoughts and friends), without self-contempt and a bad conscience.-Well! Formerly it was the very reverse: it was ""action"" that suffered from a bad conscience. A man of good family concealed his work when need compelled him to labour. The slave laboured under the weight of the feeling that he did something contemptible :- the ""doing"" itself was something contemptible. ""Only in otium and bellum is there nobility and honour:"" so rang the voice of ancient prejudice !" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The historical imagination has never flown so far, even in a dream; for now the history of man is merely the continuation of that of animals and plants; the universal historian finds traces of himself even in the utter depths of the sea, in the living slime. He stands astounded in the face of the enormous way that man has run, and his gaze quivers before the mightier wonder, the modern man who can see all the way! He stands proudly on the pyramid of the world-process; and while he lays the final stone of his knowledge, he seems to cry aloud to listening Nature: ""We are at the top, we are at the top; we are the completion of Nature!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"«Cel care caută uşor se pierde. Orice singurătate e o vină», aşa grăieşte turma. Iar tu de multă vreme ţii de turmă. Şi încă multă vreme vocea turmei va răsuna în tine. Iar când vei vrea să zici: «Eu nu mai am aceeaşi conştiinţă ca a voastră» va fi un plâns şi o durere. Uite, durerea aceasta însăşi se naşte încă din aceeaşi conştiinţă: şi cel din urmă licăr al acestei conştiinţe luceşte încă în mâhnirea ta.Vrei însă tu să mergi pe calea mâhnirii tale, care e calea înspre tine însuţi? Atunci arată-mi cu ce drept şi cu ce forţă? Eşti tu o nouă forţă şi-un nou drept? O primă punere-n mişcare? O roată ce se-nvârte prin ea însăşi? Poţi tu supune chiar şi stelele, spre-a se roti-mprejurul tău? Ah, există-atât de multă lăcomie de-nălţimi! Există-atâtea spasme-ale ambiţioşilor! Arată-mi că nu eşti lacom, nici ambiţios! Ah, există-atât de multe gânduri mari, care nu fac nimic mai mult ca nişte foi: se umflă, sporindu-şi golul dinlăuntru." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"88 One begins to distrust very clever persons when they become embarrassed." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"if it is true to say of the lazy that they kill time, then it is greatly to be feared that an era which sees its salvation in public opinion, that is to say private laziness, is a time that really will be killed: I mean that it will be struck out of the history of the true liberation of life." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"El cinismo es la única forma en que las almas vulgares rozan lo que es honestidad;" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Live in concealment in order that you may live to yourself. Live ignorant of that which seems to your age to be most important!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Reason' in language: oh what a deceitful old woman! I fear we are not getting rid of God because we still believe in grammar…" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Objectivity and justice have nothing to do with one another." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Great indebtedness does not make men grateful, but vengeful; and if a little charity is not forgotten, it turns into a gnawing worm." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Die Sinnlichkeit übereilt oft das Wachsthum der Liebe, so dass die Wurzel schwach bleibt und leicht auszureissen ist." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Beauty no accident. ―The beauty of a race or a family, their grace and graciousness in all gestures, is won by work: like genius, it is the end result of the accumulated work of generations. One must have made great sacrifices to good taste, one must have done much and omitted much, for its sake―seventeenth-century France is admirable in both respects―and good taste must have furnished a principle for selecting company, place, dress, sexual satisfaction; one must have preferred beauty to advantage, habit, opinion, and inertia. Supreme rule of conduct: before oneself too, one must not ""let oneself go."" The good things are immeasurably costly; and the law always holds that those who have them are different from those who acquire them. All that is good is inherited: whatever is not inherited is imperfect, is a mere beginning." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"ليس بالغضب يُقتل المرء بل بالضحك" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"But the worst enemy you can encounter will always be yourself." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Numai smintitul se împiedică de pietre şi de oameni!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"If one goes through the individual moral statements of the documents of Christianity, one will find everywhere that the demands have been exaggerated so that man  satisfy them; the intention is not that the  moral, but rather than he feel " -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Behind thy thoughts and feelings, my brother, there is a mighty lord, an unknown sage—it is called Self; it dwelleth in thy body, it is thy body." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Even on this level, it is at bottom not deception [men] hate but the dire, inimical consequences of certain kinds of deception" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A martyr's disciples suffer more than the martyr." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Formerly we accorded to man, as his inheritance from some higher order of beings, what was called ""free will""; now we have taken even this will from him, for the term no longer describes anything that we can understand. The old word ""will"" now connotes only a sort of result, an individual reaction, that follows inevitably upon a series of partly discordant and partly harmonious stimuli - the will no longer ""acts,"" or ""moves.""... Formerly it was thought that man's consciousness, his ""spirit,"" offered evidence of his high origin, his divinity. That he might be perfected, he was advised, tortoise-like, to draw his senses in, to have no traffic with earthly things, to shuffle off his mortal coil - then only the important part of him, the ""pure spirit,"" would remain. Here again we have thought out the thing better: to us consciousness, or ""the spirit,"" appears as a symptom of a relative imperfection of the organism, as an experiment, a groping, a misunderstanding, as an affliction which uses up nervous force unnecessarily - we deny that anything can be done perfectly so long as it is done consciously. The ""pure spirit"" is a piece of pure stupidity: take away the nervous system and the senses, the so-called ""mortal shell,"" and the rest is miscalculation - that is all!..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Erwägt man, wie auf jeden einzelnen eine philosophische Gesamt-Rechtfertigung seiner Art, zu leben und zu denken, wirkt – nämlich gleich einer wärmenden, sengenden, befruchtenden, eigens ihm leuchtenden Sonne, wie sie unabhängig von Lob und Tadel, selbstgenugsam, reich, freigebig an Glück und Wohlwollen macht, wie sie unaufhörlich das Böse zum Guten umschafft, alle Kräfte zum Blühen und Reifwerden bringt und das kleine und große Unkraut des Grams und der Verdrießlichkeit gar nicht aufkommen läßt – so ruft man zuletzt verlangend aus: Oh daß doch viele solche neue Sonnen noch geschaffen würden! ... Es gibt noch eine andere Welt zu entdecken – und mehr als eine! Auf die Schiffe, ihr Philosophen!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Ich mag eure kalte Gerechtigkeit nicht; und aus dem Auge eurer Richter blickt mir immer der Henker und sein kaltes Eisen. (Ich don't like your cold justice; and from the eyes of your judges seems to always gaze the hangman and his cold iron.)" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"La pensée de la mortVivre au milieu de ce dédale de ruelles, de besoins, de voix suscite en moi un bonheur mélancolique : que de jouissance, d'impatience, de désir, que de vie assoiffée et d'ivresse de vivre se révèle ici à chaque instant ! Et pourtant tous ces êtres bruyants, vivants, assoiffés de vie plongeront bientôt dans un tel silence ! Comme chacun est suivi par son ombre, le sombre compagnon qu'il emmène avec lui ! Il en est toujours comme à l'ultime moment avant le départ d'un navire d'émigrants : on a plus de choses à se dire que jamais, l'heure presse, l'océan et son mutisme désolé attend, impatient, derrière tout ce bruit–si avide, si sûr de tenir sa proie. Et tous, tous pensent que le temps écoulé jusqu'alors n'est rien ou peu de chose, que le proche avenir est tout : d'où cette hâte, ces cris, cet étourdissement de soi-même, cette duperie de soi-même ! Chacun veut être le premier dans cet avenir,–et pourtant c'est la mort et le silence de mort qui est l'unique certitude et le lot commun à tous dans cet avenir ! Qu'il est étrange que cette unique certitude et ce lot commun n'aient presque aucun pouvoir sur les hommes et qu'ils soient à mille lieues de se sentir comme une confrérie de la mort ! Cela me rend heureux de voir que les hommes ne veulent absolument pas penser la pensée de la mort ! J'aimerais contribuer en quelque manière à leur rendre la pensée de la vie encore cent fois plus digne d'être pensée." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Whatever they may think and say about their 'egoism', the great majority nonetheless do nothing for their ego their whole life long: what they do is done for the phantom of their ego which has formed itself in the heads of those around them and has been communicated to them;- as a consequence they all of them dwell in a fog of impersonal, semi-personal opinions, and arbitrary, as it were poetical evaluations, the one for ever in the head of someone else, and the head of this someone else again in the heads of others: a strange world of phantasms" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"عيونكم تتراءى لى شنيعة, وبلهفة ترنون بأنظاركم إلى الذين يتألمون. أليست هذه شهوتكم متنكرة وقد سمت نفسها شفقة ؟" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The errors of great men are more valuable than the truths of lesser men." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Our loathing of dirt may be so great as to prevent our cleaning ourselves—""justifying"" ourselves." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"And science itself, our science—indeed, what is the significance of all science, viewed as a symptom of life? For what—worse yet, whence—all science? How now? Is the resolve to be so scientific about everything perhaps a kind of fear of, an escape from, pessimism? A subtle last resort against—truth? And, morally speaking, a sort of cowardice and falseness? Amorally speaking, a ruse? O Socrates, Socrates, was that perhaps your secret? O enigmatic ironist, was that perhaps your—irony?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Our eyes find it easier on a given occasion to produce a picture already often produced, than to seize upon the divergence and novelty of an impression: the latter requires more force, more 'morality.' It is difficult and painful for the ear to listen to anything new; we hear strange music badly. When we hear another language spoken, we involuntarily attempt to form the sounds into words with which we are more familiar and conversant—" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The more rights I surrender and the more I level myself down to others, the more deeply do I sink into the average and ultimately into the greatest number. The first condition which an aristocratic society must have in order to maintain a high degree of freedom among its members, is that extreme tension which arises from the presence of the most antagonistic instincts in all its units: from their will to dominate. . . . If ye would fain do away with strong contrasts and differences of rank, ye will also abolish strong love, lofty attitudes of mind, and the feeling of individuality. Concerning the actual psychology of societies based upon freedom and equality. — What is it that tends to diminish in such a society?The will to be responsible for ones self (the loss of this is a sign of the decline of autonomy); the ability to defend and to attack, even in spiritual matters; the power of command; the sense of reverence, of subservience, the ability to be silent, great passion, great achievements, tragedy and cheerfulness." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"What is this man ? A ball of wild snakes which seldom have peace together — so they go forth alone and seek prey in the world." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Aos activos falta, habitualmente, a actividade superior: refiro-me à individual. Eles são activos enquanto funcionários, comerciantes, eruditos, isto é, como seres genéricos, mas não enquanto pessoas perfeitamente individualizadas e únicas; neste aspecto, são indolentes. A infelicidade das pessoas activas é a sua actividade ser quase sempre um tanto absurda. Não se pode, por exemplo, perguntar ao banqueiro, que junta dinheiro, qual o objectivo da sua incansável actividade: ela é irracional. Os homens activos rebolam como rebola a pedra, em conformidade com a estupidez da mecânica." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"L'uomo è l'animale più crudele. Mai egli si è sentito così bene sulla terra come assistendo a tragedie, a corride e a crocifissioni; e quando si è inventato l'inferno, ecco che esso è diventato il suo paradiso in terra." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"melalui musik, bahkan hasrat kita dapat meikmati dirinya sendiri" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When I look at this age with the eye of a distant future, I find nothing so remarkable in the man of the present day as his peculiar virtue and sickness called ""the historical sense."" It is a tendency to something quite new and foreign in history: if this embryo were given several centuries and more, there might finally evolve out of it a marvellous plant, with a smell equally marvellous, on account of which our old earth might be more pleasant to live in than it has been hitherto. We moderns are just beginning to form the chain of a very powerful, future sentiment, link by link, we hardly know what we are doing. It almost seems to us as if it were not the question of a new sentiment, but of the decline of all old sentiments: the historical sense is still something so poor and cold, and many are attacked by it as by a frost, and are made poorer and colder by it. To others it appears as the indication of stealthily approaching age, and our planet is regarded by them as a melancholy invalid, who, in order to forget his present condition, writes the history of his youth. In fact, this is one aspect of the new sentiment He who knows how to regard the history of man in its entirety as his own history, feels in the immense generalisation all the grief of the invalid who thinks of health, of the old man who thinks of the dream of his youth, of the lover who is robbed of his beloved, of the martyr whose ideal is destroyed, of the hero on the evening of the indecisive battle which has brought him wounds and the loss of a friend. But to bear this immense sum of grief of all kinds, to be able to bear it, and yet still be the hero who at the commencement of a second day of battle greets the dawn and his happiness, as one who has an horizon of centuries before and behind him, as the heir of all nobility, of all past intellect, and the obligatory heir (as the noblest) of all the old nobles; while at the same time the first of a new nobility, the equal of which has never been seen nor even dreamt of: to take all this upon his soul, the oldest, the newest, the losses, hopes, conquests, and victories of mankind: to have all this at last in one soul, and to comprise it in one feeling: this would necessarily furnish a happiness which man has not hitherto known, a God's happiness, full of power and love, full of tears and laughter, a happiness which, like the sun in the evening, continually gives of its inexhaustible riches and empties into the sea, and like the sun, too, feels itself richest when even the poorest fisherman rows with golden oars! This divine feeling might then be called humanity!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"If someone rejoices while burning at the stake it is not because he has triumphed over his pain, but rather over not feeling any pain when he expected to." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Of all that is written I love only what a man has written with his blood. Write with blood, and you will experience that blood is spirit." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The fact that one becomes what one is presupposes that one has not the remotest idea of what one is. From this standpoint even the blunders of one's life have their own meaning and value, the temporary deviations and aberrations, the moments of hesitation and of modesty, the earnestness wasted upon duties which lie outside the actual life-task. In these matters great wisdom, perhaps even the highest wisdom comes into play: in these circumstances in which nosce te ipsum would be the sure road to ruin, forgetting one's self, misunderstanding one's self, belittling one's self, narrowing one's self and making one's self mediocre is reason itself." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"How couldst thou become new if thou have not first become ashes?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The properties of a thing are effects on other 'things': if one removes other 'things', then a thing has no properties, i.e., there is no thing without other things, i.e., there is no 'thing-in-itself." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"[F]or your true nature lies, not concealed deep within you, but immeasurably high above you, or at least above that which you usually take yourself to be. Your true educators and formative teachers reveal to you what the true basic material of your being is, something in itself ineducable and in any case difficult of access, bound and paralysed: your educators can be only your liberators. That is the secret of all culture: it does not provide artificial limbs, wax noses or spectacles — that which can provide these things is, rather, only sham education. Culture is liberation, the removal of all the weeds, rubble and vermin that want to attack the tender buds of the plant." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Willing liberates: for willing is creating: thus I teach. And you should learn solely in order to create!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Is he a poet? Or a genuine one? An emancipator? Or a subjugator? A good one? Or an evil one?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Meanwhile, however, it is quite otherwise, meanwhile the comedy of existence has not yet "" become conscious "" of itself, meanwhile it is still the period of tragedy, the period of morals and religions." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Raise up your hearts, my brothers, high, higher! And don't forget your legs! Raise up your legs, too, good dancers; and still better: stand on your heads!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Against bad diet.-- Phooey on the meals people cook these days, in restaurants as well as everywhere society's well-to-do class resides! Even when scholars of the highest reputation come together, they load their table according to the same custom as the banker loads his: following the principle of ""much too much"" and ""ever such variety""-- from which it follows that the dishes are prepared with an eye to their effect instead of their efficacy, and stimulating drinks have to assist in driving out the heaviness from both stomach and brain. Phooey, what widespread dissoluteness and over-excitability as the inevitable consequence! Phooey, what dreams these people must have! Phooey, what arts and which books will be the desert of such dinners! And no matter what they do: pepper or contradiction or world-weariness will rule their actions!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"3- نبيل ووضيعيبدو للوضعاء من الناس ان كل المشاعر النبيلة والكريمة تخلر منالمنفعة العملية، ولهذا السبب فإنها تثير ريبتهم: فما ان يسمعوا بها حتىيطرفون بعيونهم كأن لسان حالهم يقول: ""لا شك ان الامر يخفي فاثدة ما،ذلك اننا لا نستطيع ان ندرك كل شيء""، وهم يحتدون على الرجل النبيللأنهم يشكون في انه يسعى الى مصلحته بطرق ملتوية. وإذا ما توصلوا الىالاقتناع بغياب اي مصلحة واي دافع وربح شخصي، يصير الرجل النبيلبنظرهم مجرد معجنون بائس فيحتقرون افراحه ويسخرون من ضياء عينيه.""كيف يمكن التمتع بتحمل الأذى، كيف نقبل عليه مع سابق معرفة!لا بد ان هوى النبيل يعود الى مرض عقلي ما!""، هكذا يفكرون مع نظرةاحتقار.ان لاعقلانية او عقلانية الهوىالمنحرفة هو ما يحتقره الوضيع عند الرجل النبيل، خاصة عندما يتجه هذاالهوى نحو مواضيع تبدو له أن قيمتها وهمية أو عبثية، فإذا كان يغضبلمرأى من يخضع لهوى بطنه، فإنه مع ذلك يفهم تسلط هذه اللذة، إلا أنهلا يمكنه على الاطلاق ان يفهم، كيف يمكن مثلا، ان نخاطر بصحتناوكرامتنا حبا بالمعرفة. يتجه ذوق الطبائع العليا نحو الاستثناءات، ونحومواضيع يهملها عادة اغلب البشر، وتبدو بدون اي جاذبية: إن للطبعالأعلى حكم قيمي خاص، الا انه بشكل عام لا يعتقد ان معياره خاصبجبلة ذوقه، بل على العكس، فإنه يخمن ان قيمه ولا قيمه الشخصية هىقيم كونية، لذلك فإنه يقع في سوء الفهم وفي نطاق المتعذر ٠ نادرا جدا مايملك الطبع الأعلى من العقل ما يسمح له بفهم ومعاملة الرجل المتوسطبما هو عليه: إذ انه غالبأ ما يعتقد ان هواه هو الهوى الحميم للجميع،وهذا الاعتقاد هو ما يملؤه حرارة وتوهجأ. حين لا يشعر هؤلاء الرجالالاستثنائيون بانهم كذلك، كيف سيتمكنون بالتالي من فهم ذوي الطبعالوضيع، ويقيمون القاعدة بانصاف! فيتكلمون هم ايضا بالتالي عنالجنون، وعن فوات الفرص الملائمة، وعن الأحلام الخيالية للبشرية،مندهشين امام هذا الجري الأخرق للخليقة التي لا تريد ان تقر بـ ""الشيءالوحيد الضروري""، هذا هو التعسف الأبدي للطبائع النبيلة." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I am weary of my wisdom, like a bee that has gathered too much honey. I need hands that reach out." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"G. Eliot. -- They are rid of the Christian God and now believe all the more firmly that they must cling to Christian morality. That is an English consistency; we do not wish to hold it against little moralistic females à la Eliot. In England one must rehabilitate oneself after every little emancipation from theology by showing in a veritably awe-inspiring manner what a moral fanatic one is. That is the penance they pay there.We others hold otherwise. When one gives up the Christian faith, one pulls the right to Christian morality out from under one's feet. This morality is by no means self-evident: this point has to be exhibited again and again, despite the English flatheads. Christianity is a system, a whole view of things thought out together. By breaking one main concept out of it, the faith in God, one breaks the whole: nothing necessary remains in one's hands. Christianity presupposes that man does not know, cannot know, what is good for him, what evil: he believes in God, who alone knows it. Christian morality is a command; its origin is transcendent; it is beyond all criticism, all right to criticism; it has truth only if God is the truth--it stands and falls with faith in God.When the English actually believe that they know ""intuitively"" what is good and evil, when they therefore suppose that they no longer require Christianity as the guarantee of morality, we merely witness the effects of the dominion of the Christian value judgment and an expression of the strength and depth of this dominion: such that the origin of English morality has been forgotten, such that the very conditional character of its right to existence is no longer felt. For the English, morality is not yet a problem." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"As the act of birth deserves no consideration in the whole process and procedure of heredity, so 'being conscious' is not in any decisive sense the opposite of what is instinctive: most of the conscious thinking of a philosopher is secretly guided and forced into certain channels by his instincts." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When I came to men for the first time, then did I commit the hermit's folly, the great folly: I appeared in the market-place.And when I spoke to all, I spoke to none. In the evening, however, rope-dancers were my companions, and corpses; and I myself almost a corpse.With the new morning, however, there came to me a new truth: Then did I learn to say 'Of what account to me are market-place and crowd and crowd-noise and long crowd-ears!'You higher men, learn this from me: In the market-place no one believes in higher men. But if you will speak there, very well! The crowd, however, sputters 'We are all equal.''You higher men,' — so sputters the crowd — 'there are no higher men, we are all equal; man is man, before God — we are all equal!'Before God! — Now, however, this God has died. Before the crowd, however, we will not be equal. You higher men, go away from the market-place!Before God! — Now however this God has died! You higher men, this God was your greatest danger.Only since he lay in the grave have you again arisen. Only now comes the great noontide, only now does the higher man become — master!Have you understood this word, O my brothers? You are frightened: Do your hearts turn giddy? Does the abyss here yawn for you? Does the hell-hound here yelp at you?Well! Take heart, you higher men! Only now does the mountain of the human future begin to work. God has died: Now we desire that the Superman live!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Life itself is essentially appropriation, injury, overpowering of what is alien and weaker; suppression, hardness, imposition of one's own forms, incorporation and at least, at its mildest, exploitation.… If it is a living and not a dying body…it will have to be an incarnate will to power, it will strive to grow, spread, seize, become predominant—not from any morality or immorality but because it is living and because life simply is will to power. But there is no point on which the ordinary consciousness of Europeans resists instruction as on this: everywhere people are now raving, even under scientific disguises, about coming conditions of society in which 'the exploitative aspect' will be removed—which sounds to me as if they promised to invent a way of life that would dispense with all organic functions. 'Exploitation' does not belong to a corrupt or imperfect and primitive society: it belongs to the essence of what lives, as a basic organic function; it is a consequence of the will to power, which is after all the will of life." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Cada dia en que no bailemos, al menos una vez, debemos considerarlo perdido. Y cada verdad que no venga acompañada de al menos una risa, debera considerarse mentira." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In good company one must never want to be entirely and solely right, which is what all pure logic wants [...]." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Zuletzt aber: wozu müssten wir Das, was wir sind, was wir wollen und nicht wollen, so laut und mit solchem Eifer sagen? Sehen wir es kälter, ferner, klüger, höher an, sagen wir es, wie es unter uns gesagt werden darf, so heimlich, dass alle Welt es überhört, dass alle Welt uns überhört! Vor Allem sagen wir es langsam... Diese Vorrede kommt spät, aber nicht zu spät, was liegt im Grunde an fünf, sechs Jahren? Ein solches Buch, ein solches Problem hat keine Eile; überdies sind wir Beide Freunde des lento, ich ebensowohl als mein Buch. Man ist nicht umsonst Philologe gewesen, man ist es vielleicht noch das will sagen, ein Lehrer des langsamen Lesens: – endlich schreibt man auch langsam. Jetzt gehört es nicht nur zu meinen Gewohnheiten, sondern auch zu meinem Geschmacke – einem boshaften Geschmacke vielleicht? – Nichts mehr zu schreiben, womit nicht jede Art Mensch, die ""Eile hat"", zur Verzweiflung gebracht wird. Philologie nämlich ist jene ehrwürdige Kunst, welche von ihrem Verehrer vor Allem Eins heischt, bei Seite gehn, sich Zeit lassen, still werden, langsam werden –, als eine Goldschmiedekunst und -kennerschaft des Wortes, die lauter feine vorsichtige Arbeit abzuthun hat und Nichts erreicht, wenn sie es nicht lento erreicht. Gerade damit aber ist sie heute nöthiger als je, gerade dadurch zieht sie und bezaubert sie uns am stärksten, mitten in einem Zeitalter der ""Arbeit"", will sagen: der Hast, der unanständigen und schwitzenden Eilfertigkeit, das mit Allem gleich ""fertig werden"" will, auch mit jedem alten und neuen Buche: – sie selbst wird nicht so leicht irgend womit fertig, sie lehrt gut lesen, das heisst langsam, tief, rück- und vorsichtig, mit Hintergedanken, mit offen gelassenen Thüren, mit zarten Fingern und Augen lesen... Meine geduldigen Freunde, dies Buch wünscht sich nur vollkommene Leser und Philologen: lernt mich gut lesen!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Truly, I advise you: depart from me, and guard yourselves against Zarathustra! And better still: be ashamed of him! Perhaps he has deceived you.The man of knowledge must be able not only to love his enemies, but also to hate his friends.One pays back a teacher badly if one remain merely a scholar. And why will you not pluck at my wreath?You venerate me; but what if your veneration should some day col- lapse? Take heed lest a statue crush you!You say, you believe in Zarathustra? But of what account is Zarathustra! you are my believers: but of what account are all believers!You had not yet sought yourselves: then did you find me. So do all believers; therefore all belief is of so little account.Now do I bid you lose me and find yourselves; and only when you have all denied me, will I return to you.Truly, with other eyes, my brothers, shall I then seek my lost ones; with another love shall I then love you.And once again shall you have become friends to me, and children of one hope: then will I be with you for the third time, to celebrate the great noontide with you.And it is the great noontide, when man is in the middle of his course between animal and overman, and celebrates his advance to the evening as his highest hope: for it is the advance to a new morning.At such time will the down-goer bless himself, that he should be an over-goer; and the sun of his knowledge will be at noontide.""Dead are all the Gods: now do we desire the overman to live."" - Let this be our final will at the great noontide! -Thus spoke Zarathustra." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A good author, who really cares about his subject, wishes that someone would come and destroy him by representing the same subject more clearly and by answering every last question contained in it. The girl in love wishes that she might prove the devoted faithfulness of her love through her lover's faithlessness. The soldier wishes that he might fall on the battlefield for his victorious fatherland, for in the victory of his fatherland his greatest desire is also victorious. The mother gives the child what she takes from herself: sleep, the best food, in some instances even her health, her wealth.Are these really selfless states, however? [...] Isn't it clear that, in all these cases, man is loving something of himself, a thought, a longing, an offspring, more than something else of himself; that he is thus dividing up his being and sacrificing one part for the other? Is it something essentially different when a pigheaded man says, 'I would rather be shot at once than move an inch to get out of that man's way'? [...]In morality, man treats himself not as an 'individuum', but as a 'dividuum'." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The artist especially, in whom the power of imitation is particularly strong, must fall prey to the feeble manysidedness of modern life as to a serious childhood illness; in his youth and childhood he will look more like an adult than his real self. The marvellously accurate archetypal youth who is the Siegfried of the Ring des Nibelungen could have been produced only by a man, and by a man moreover who had found his own youth late in life. And as Wagner's youth came late, so did his full maturity; so that in this respect at least he is the opposite of an anticipatory nature.As soon as his spiritual and moral maturity arrives, the drama of his life also begins. And how different he looks now! Below there rages the precipitate current of a vehement will which as it were strives to reach up to the light through every runway, cave and crevice, and desires power. Only a force wholly pure and free could direct this will on to the pathway to the good and benevolent; had it been united with a narrow spirit, such an unbridled tyrannical will could have become a fatality and a way out into the open, into air and sunlight, was in any event bound to be found soon." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When man no longer regards himself as evil he ceases to be so!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I hate everything that merely instructs me without increasing or directly quickening my activity.' These words of Goethe, like a sincere ceterum censeo, may well stand at the head of my thoughts on the worth and the worthlessness of history. I will show in them why instruction that does not 'quicken,' knowledge that slackens the rein of activity, why in fact history, in Goethe's phrase, must be seriously 'hated,' as a costly and superfluous luxury of the understanding: for we are still in want of the necessaries of life, and the superfluous is an enemy to the necessary. We do need history, but quite differently from the jaded idlers in the garden of knowledge, however grandly they may look down on our rude and unpicturesque requirements. In other words, we need it for life and action, not as a convenient way to avoid life and action, or to excuse a selfish life and a cowardly or base action. We would serve history only so far as it serves life; but to value its study beyond a certain point mutilates and degrades life: and this is a fact that certain marked symptoms of our time make it as necessary as it may be painful to bring to the test of experience." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"These smoky, room-temperature, used-up, wilted, fretful souls —how could their grudge endure my happiness? Hence I show them only the ice and the winter of my peaks—and not that my mountain still winds all the belts of the sun round itself. They hear only my winter winds whistling—and not that I also cross warm seas, like longing, heavy, hot south winds. They still have pity on my accidents; but my word says, ""Let accidents come to me, they are innocent as little children." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Yo le llamo Estado adonde se envenenan todos los buenos y malos; donde se pierden todos, los buenos y los malos; donde el suicidio lento de todos se llama 'la vida'." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Oh my brothers, am I perhaps cruel? But I say: if something is falling, one should also give it a push!Everything of today – it is falling, it is failing: who would want to stop it! But I–I want to push it too!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"a poet is a poet only insofar as he sees himself surrounded by figures who live and act before him and into whose inmost nature he can see." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There is always some madness in love. But there is always, also, some method in madness." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Az ember torkig van önmagával, és mindezt elég gyakorta hatalmas járványok bizonyították (úgy 1348 körül, a haláltánc idején): ám éppen ez az undor, ez a fáradtság, ez az elfordulás önmagától csordul ki belőle olyan erővel, hogy az tüstént új kötelmeket jelent. Az a Nem, amelyet az életre mond, mintegy varázsütésre töméntelen Igent hoz napvilágra; igen, ha a rombolásnak, az önpusztításnak ez a mestere megsebzi önmagát – akkor pontosan ez a sebesülés kényszeríti őt az életre…" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It goes without saying that I do not deny unless I am a fool that many actions called immoral ought to be avoided and resisted, or that many called moral ought to be done and encouraged but I think the one should be encouraged and the other avoided for other reasons than hitherto. We have to learn to think differently in order at last, perhaps very late on, to attain even more: to feel differently." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Thus months and years passed by for the lonely one; but his wisdom grew and caused him pain with its fullness." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"I am of today and of the has-been (he said then); but there is something in me that is of tomorrow and of the day-after-tomorrow and of the shall-be." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Morality is no longer the expression of the conditions of life and growth, no longer the most fundamental instinct of life, but it has become abstract, it has become the opposite of life," -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Suffering people all have a horrible willingness and capacity for inventing pretexts for painful emotional feelings. They enjoy even their suspicions, their brooding over bad actions and apparent damage. They ransack the entrails of their past and present, looking for dark, dubious stories, in which they are free to feast on an agonizing suspicion and to get intoxicated on the poison of their own anger — they rip open the oldest wounds, they bleed themselves to death from long-healed scars, they turn friends, wives, children, and anyone else who is closest to them into criminals. 'I am suffering. Someone or other must be to blame for that' — that's how every sick sheep thinks. But his shepherd, the ascetic priest, says to him: 'That's right, my sheep! Someone must be to blame for that. But you yourself are this very person. You yourself are the only one to blame — you alone are to blame for yourself!' ... That is bold enough, and false enough. But one thing at least is attained by that, as I have said, the direction of ressentiment has been — changed." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"But we produce these representations in and from ourselves with the same necessitywith which the spider spins. If we are forced to comprehend all things only under these forms, then it ceases to be amazing that in all things we actually comprehend nothing but these forms. For they must all bear within themselves the laws of number, and it is precisely number which is most astonishing in things. All that conformity to law, which impresses us so much in the movement of the stars and in chemical processes, coincides at bottom with those properties which we bring to things" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Iubesc pe cel ce-şi maltratează Dumnezeul, pentru că-l iubeşte: căci el chiar de mânia acelui Dumnezeu pieri-va." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Once you were apes, and even now, too, man is more ape than any ape." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"This eternal accusation against Christianity I shall write upon all walls,wherever walls are to be found--I have letters that even the blind will beable to see.... I call Christianity the one great curse, the one great intrinsicdepravity, the one great instinct of revenge, for which no means arevenomous enough, or secret, subterranean and small enough,--I call it theone immortal blemish upon the human race....And mankind reckons time from the dies nefastus when this fatalitybefell--from the first day of Christianity!--Why not rather from itslast?--From today?--The transvaluation of all values!..." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"the secret of realizing the greatest fruitfulness and the greatest enjoyment of existence is: to live dangerously! Build your cities on the slopes of Vesuvius! Send your ships out into uncharted seas! Live in conflict with your equals and with yourselves! Be robbers and ravagers as long as you cannot be rulers and owners, you men of knowledge!…(283)." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Viewed from a distant star, our planet would appear to be an unhappy planet, full of unhappy repulsive people, dissatisfied with themselves, with the Earth, with Life itself and knowing no greater pleasure than causing pain, to themselves and to others." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"cele 3 secolediferitele lor tipuri de sensibilitate se exprima cel mai bine astfel:aristocratismul: Descartes, domnia ratiunii, marturie despre suveranitatea vointei.feminismul: Rousseau, domnia sentimentului, marturie despre suveranitatea simturilor, minciuna.animalismul: Schopenhauer, domnia dorintei, marturie despre suveranitatea animalitatii. mai cinstit, dar sumbru.secolul 17 e aristocratic, ordonator, trufas fata de animalic, sever fata de inima, ""incomod"", chiar lipsit de sentiment, negermanic, retinut fata de burlesc si naturalete, inclinat spre generalizare si cu aere de suveranitate fata de trecut, deoarece este increzator in sine. in mare masura si animal de prada, multa deprindere ascetica pt a putea ramane stapan. secolul tariei de vointa dar si al pasiunii puternice.secolul 18 e dominat de femeie, visator, inteligent, cam plat, avand totusi un anumit spirit la dispozitia dorintelor sale, a inimii, libertin in delectarea cu cele spirituale, subminand orice gen de autoritate. ametit, voios, limpede, uman, fals fata de sine, o mare canalie au fond, sociabil.secolul 19 e mai animalic, mai subteran, mai urat, mai realist, mai badaran si tocmai de aceea considerat ""mai bun"" ""mai cinstit"" mai smerit in fata ""realitatii"", mai autentic. dar slab in vointa, dar trist si sumbru, pofticios dar fatalist. nu se teme si nici nu stimeaza ratiunea sau inima. adanc convins de dominatia poftelor [Schopenhauer vorbea de ""vointa"" dar nimic nu e mai caracteristic pt filozofia sa, decat ca ii lipseste tocmai vointa per se]. pana si morala e redusa la un singur instinct [""mila""].faptul ca stiinta devenit intr'un asemenea grad suverana arata ca secolul 19 s'a eliberat de dominatia idealurilor. abia o anumita lipsa de pretentii in felul nostru de a dori ne face posibila starea de curiozitate si rigoare stiintifica - aceasta stranie virtute care ne apartine. secolul 19 cauta instinctiv teorii cu ajutorul carora isi simte justificata subordonarea fatalista fata de real. suntem niste oameni care se autodesfiinteaza." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We should not deck out and embellish Christianity: it has waged a war to the death against this higher type of man, it has put all the deepest instincts of this type under its ban, it has developed its concept of evil, of the Evil One himself, out of these instincts — the strong man as the typical reprobate, the 'outcast among men." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"When law is no longer a tradition, as in our case, it can only be commanded, or forced; none of us has a traditional sense of justice any longer; therefore we must content ourselves with arbitrary laws, which express the necessity of having to have a law." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"art it is easier to go over to a really emancipating philosophical science." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Не лучше ли попасть в руки убийцы, чем в мечты похотливой женщины?" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"After an eventful journey - it was even life-threatening because of flooding in Como, which I only reached late at night - I arrived in Turin on the afternoon of the 21st, my proven place, my residence from then on. I took the same apartment that I had in the spring, via Carlo Alberto 6, III, across from the enormous Palazzo Carignano where Vittore Emanuele was born, with a view of the Piazza Carlo Alberto and the hills beyond. I went back to work without delay: only the last quarter of the work was left to be done. Great victory on 30 September; the conclusion of the Revaluation; the leisure of a god walking along the river Po. That same day, I wrote the Preface to Twilight of the Idols: I had corrected the manuscript for it in September, as my recuperation. - I never experienced an autumn like this before, I never thought anything like this could happen on earth, - a Claude Lorrain projected out to infinity, every day having the same tremendous perfection." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"His word pronounced ‘selfishness' blessed, the wholesomehealthy selfishness that wells from a powerful soul—froma powerful soul to which belongs the high body, beautiful,triumphant, refreshing, around which everythingbecomes a mirror—the supple, persuasive body, thedancer whose parable and epitome is the self-enjoyingsoul." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The submission to Christianity on the part of master races is essentially the result of the conviction that Christianity is a religion for the herd, that it teaches obedience: in short, that Christians are more easily ruled than non-Christians. With a hint of this nature, the Pope, even nowadays, recommends Christian propaganda to the ruling Sovereign of China." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Diese räucherigen, stubenwarmen, verbrauchten, vergrünten, vergrämelten Seelen - wie könnte ihr Neid mein Glück ertragen!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"There is in fact also something more recent that Greek philosophy may regard only as an imported plant, something that is actually indigenous to Asia and Egypt; we must conclude that philosophy of this sort essentially only ruined the Greeks, that they declined because of it (Heraclitus, because of Zoroaster [Zarathustra of Iran]; Pythagoras, because of the Chinese; the Eleatics, because of the Indians; Empedocles, because of the Egyptians; Anaxagoras, because of the Jews)." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The future influences the present just as much as the past." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Tất cả mọi chân lí đều nhạt phai và phải xóa đi, mọi thần tượng đều hết thiêng liêng và phải tiêu diệt. Duy chỉ có cuộc đời là vĩnh cửu. Tất cả mọi hiểu biết đều sai lầm, mọi luân lí đều độc hại. Duy chỉ có bản năng là tốt lành." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A human being who strives for something great regards everybody he meets on his way either as a means or as a delay and hindrance - or as a temporary resting-place." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Into every abyss I still bear the blessing of my affirmation" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We possess scientific knowledge today to precisely the extent that we have decided to accept the evidence of the senses – to the extent that we have learned to sharpen and arm them and to think them through to their conclusions." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Alternar el amor con el odio distingue por largo tiempo el estado interior de un hombre que quiera ser libre en su juicio sobre la vida. Por fin, cuando toda la mesa de su alma está cubierta con notas de la experiencia, no tendrá para la existenciadesprecio, ni odio ni tampoco amor; morará muy por encima de ella, dirigiéndole semejante a la Naturaleza, tendrá en el pensamiento, bien el verano, bien el otoño." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"It is possible to conceive of a society blessed with so great a consciousness of its own power as to indulge in the most aristocratic luxury of letting its wrong-doers go scot-free. -" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The new, the unexperienced, the strange is excluded from being cause. – Thus there is sought not only some kind of explanation as cause, but a selected and preferred kind of explanation, the kind by means of which the feeling of the strange, new, unexperienced is most speedily and most frequently abolished – the most common explanations. –" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"during the longest period of the human past nothing was more terrible than to feel that one stood by oneself. To be alone, to experience things by oneself, neither to obey nor to rule, to be an individual—that was not a pleasure but a punishment; one was sentenced 'to individuality." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Christianity is a hangman's metaphysics…" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"How little the world would look moral without forgetfulness! A poet might say that God made forgetfulness the guard he placed at the threshold of human dignity." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"A thought comes when 'it' wishes, and not when 'I' wish" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"In the Dionysian dithyramb man is incited to the greatest exaltation of all his symbolic faculties; something never before experienced struggles for utterance—the annihilation of the veil of māyā, oneness as the soul of the race and of nature itself." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"FIRST PRINCIPLE OF CIVILIZATION.—Among savage tribes there is a certain category of customs which appear to aim at nothing but custom. They therefore lay down strict, and, on the whole, superfluous regulations (e.g. the rules of the Kamchadals, which forbid snow to be scraped off the boots with a knife, coal to be stuck on the point of a knife, or a piece of iron to be put into the fire—and death to be the portion of every one who shall act contrariwise!) Yet these laws serve to keep people continually reminded of the custom, and the imperative necessity on their parts to conform to it: and all this in support of the great principle which stands at the beginning of all civilization: any custom is better than none." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Cuvintele cele mai liniştite sunt cele care aduc furtună, gândurile care vin pe picioarele uşoare, de porumbel, cârmuiesc lumea. Omul cunoaşterii trebuie nu numai să-şi iubească duşmanii, el trebuie şi să poată să-şi urască prietenii." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"This the Church understood: it corrupted the human being, it weakened him – but it claimed to have ‘improved' him…" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"For a philosopher to see a problem in the value of life thus even constitutes an objection to him, a question-mark as to his wisdom, a piece of unwisdom." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"dari sekolah militer kehidupan: apa yang tidak membunuhku membuatku kuat" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Ko hoće da ima prijatelja mora da bude spreman za njega poći i u rat: a da bi se moglo ratovati, mora čovjek da ume biti neprijatelj. Treba još neprijatelja poštovati u svome prijatelju. Može li svome prijatelju da priđeš blizu, a da mu ne priđeš? U svom prijatelju treba imati svog najboljeg neprijatelja. Treba da si mu onda najbliži srcem kada mu se protiviš." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Since humanity came into being, man hath enjoyed himself too little: that alone, my brethren, is our original sin!And when we learn better to enjoy ourselves, then do we unlearn best to give pain unto others, and to contrive pain.Therefore do I wash the hand that hath helped the sufferer; therefore do I wipe also my soul.For in seeing the sufferer suffering – thereof was I ashamed on account of his shame; and in helping him, sorely did I wound his pride." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The fool interrupts — The writer of this book is no misanthrope; today one pays too dearly for hatred of man." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"The unselective knowledge drive resembles the indiscriminate sexual drive—signs of vulgarity!" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"We new philosophers, however, not only do we begin by presenting the actual gradations in rank and variations in value among us but we also desire the very opposite of an assimilation, an equalizing: we teach estrangement in every sense, we tear open gaps as never were, we want man to become more wicked than he ever was." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"at the age of thirty, when it comes to high culture, one is a beginner, a child.—" -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Main deficiency of active people. Active men are usually lacking in higher activity-I mean individual activity. They are active as officials, businessmen, scholars, that is, as generic beings, but not as quite particular, single and unique men. In this respect they are lazy.It is the misfortune of active men that their activity is almost always a bit irrational. For example, one must not inquire of the money-gathering banker what the purpose for his restless activity is: it is irrational. Active people roll like a stone, conforming to the stupidity of mechanics.Today as always, men fall into two groups: slaves and free men. Whoever does not have two-thirds of his day for himself, is a slave, whatever he may be: a statesman, a businessman, an official, or a scholar." -Friedrich Nietzsche
"Four very strange and truly poetic human beings in this century have attained mastery in prose, for which this century was not made otherwise—for lack of poetry, as I have suggested. Not including Goethe, who may fairly be claimed by the century that produced him, I regard only Giacomo Leopardi, Prosper Mérimée, Ralph Waldo Emerson, and Walter Savage Landor, the author of Imaginary Conversations, as worthy of being called masters of prose.35 93" -Friedrich Nietzsche