"I learned this, at least, by my experiment: that if one advances confidently in the direction of his dreams, and endeavors to live the life which he has imagined, he will meet with a success unexpected in common hours." -Henry David Thoreau
"Rather than love, than money, than fame, give me truth." -Henry David Thoreau
"I went to the woods because I wished to live deliberately, to front only the essential facts of life, and see if I could not learn what it had to teach, and not, when I came to die, discover that I had not lived. I did not wish to live what was not life, living is so dear; nor did I wish to practise resignation, unless it was quite necessary. I wanted to live deep and suck out all the marrow of life, to live so sturdily and Spartan-like as to put to rout all that was not life, to cut a broad swath and shave close, to drive life into a corner, and reduce it to its lowest terms..." -Henry David Thoreau
"How vain it is to sit down to write when you have not stood up to live." -Henry David Thoreau
"The question is not what you look at, but what you see." -Henry David Thoreau
"The mass of men lead lives of quiet desperation. What is called resignation is confirmed desperation. From the desperate city you go into the desperate country, and have to console yourself with the bravery of minks and muskrats. A stereotyped but unconscious despair is concealed even under what are called the games and amusements of mankind. There is no play in them, for this comes after work. But it is a characteristic of wisdom not to do desperate things.." -Henry David Thoreau
"Dreams are the touchstones of our characters." -Henry David Thoreau
"I find it wholesome to be alone the greater part of the time. To be in company, even with the best, is soon wearisome and dissipating. I love to be alone. I never found the companion that was so companionable as solitude." -Henry David Thoreau
"You must live in the present, launch yourself on every wave, find your eternity in each moment. Fools stand on their island of opportunities and look toward another land. There is no other land; there is no other life but this." -Henry David Thoreau
"If you have built castles in the air, your work need not be lost; that is where they should be. Now put the foundations under them." -Henry David Thoreau
"Books are the treasured wealth of the world and the fit inheritance of generations and nations." -Henry David Thoreau
"Do not be too moral. You may cheat yourself out of much life so. Aim above morality. Be not simply good, be good for something." -Henry David Thoreau
"All good things are wild and free." -Henry David Thoreau
"The animal merely makes a bed, which he warms with his body in a sheltered place; but man, having discovered fire, boxes up some air in a spacious apartment, and warms that, instead of robbing himself, makes that his bed, in which he can move about divested of more cumbrous clothing, maintain a kind of summer in the midst of winter, and by means of windows even admit the light and with a lamp lengthen out the day." -Henry David Thoreau
"If a man does not keep pace with his companions, perhaps it is because he hears a different drummer. Let him step to the music he hears, however measured or far away." -Henry David Thoreau
"Our life is frittered away by detail. Simplify, simplify." -Henry David Thoreau
"I went to the woods because I wished to live deliberately..." -Henry David Thoreau
"We need the tonic of wildness...At the same time that we are earnest to explore and learn all things, we require that all things be mysterious and unexplorable, that land and sea be indefinitely wild, unsurveyed and unfathomed by us because unfathomable. We can never have enough of nature." -Henry David Thoreau
"Live in each season as it passes; breathe the air, drink the drink, taste the fruit, and resign yourself to the influence of the earth." -Henry David Thoreau
"Read the best books first, or you may not have a chance to read them at all." -Henry David Thoreau
"I would rather sit on a pumpkin, and have it all to myself, than be crowded on a velvet cushion." -Henry David Thoreau
"I learned this, at least, by my experiment; that if one advances confidently in the direction of his dreams, and endeavors to live the life which he has imagined, he will meet with a success unexpected in common hours.." -Henry David Thoreau
"However mean your life is, meet it and live it; do not shun it and call it hard names. It is not so bad as you are. It looks poorest when you are richest. The fault-finder will find faults even in paradise. Love your life, poor as it is. You may perhaps have some pleasant, thrilling, glorious hours, even in a poorhouse. . I do not see but a quiet mind may live as contentedly there, and have as cheering thoughts, as in a palace." -Henry David Thoreau
"Disobedience is the true foundation of liberty. The obedient must be slaves." -Henry David Thoreau
"The greatest compliment that was ever paid me was when one asked me what I thought, and attended to my answer." -Henry David Thoreau
"As if you could kill time without injuring eternity." -Henry David Thoreau
"I was not born to be forced. I will breathe after my own fashion. Let us see who is the strongest." -Henry David Thoreau
"Nothing makes the earth seem so spacious as to have friends at a distance; they make the latitudes and longitudes." -Henry David Thoreau
"Things do not change; we change." -Henry David Thoreau
"There is no remedy for love but to love more." -Henry David Thoreau
"Our truest life is when we are in dreams awake." -Henry David Thoreau
"The cost of a thing is the amount of what I will call life which is required to be exchanged for it, immediately or in the long run." -Henry David Thoreau
"Heaven is under our feet as well as over our heads." -Henry David Thoreau
"Not till we are lost, in other words not till we have lost the world, do we begin to find ourselves, and realize where we are and the infinite extent of our relations." -Henry David Thoreau
"If we will be quiet and ready enough, we shall find compensation in every disappointment." -Henry David Thoreau
"Any fool can make a ruleAnd any fool will mind it." -Henry David Thoreau
"We must learn to reawaken and keep ourselves awake, not by mechanical aids, but by an infinite expectation of the dawn, which does not forsake us even in our soundest sleep. I know of no more encouraging fact than the unquestionable ability of man to elevate his life by a conscious endeavour. It is something to be able to paint a particular picture, or to carve a statue, and so to make a few objects beautiful; but it is far more glorious to carve and paint the very atmosphere and medium through which we look, which morally we can do. To affect the quality of the day, that is the highest of arts." -Henry David Thoreau
"A man is rich in proportion to the number of things which he can afford to let alone." -Henry David Thoreau
"Every generation laughs at the old fashions, but follows religiously the new." -Henry David Thoreau
"I went to the woods because I wished to live deliberately, to front only the essential facts of life, and see if I could not learn what it had to teach, and not, when I came to die, discover that I had not lived." -Henry David Thoreau
"All men want, not something to do with, but something to do, or rather something to be." -Henry David Thoreau
"In the morning I bathe my intellect in the stupendous and cosmogonal philosophy of the Bhagvat Geeta, since whose composition years of the gods have elapsed, and in comparison with which our modern world and its literature seem puny and trivial; and I doubt if that philosophy is not to be referred to a previous state of existence, so remote is its sublimity from our conceptions. I lay down the book and go to my well for water, and lo! there I meet the servant of the Bramin, priest of Brahma and Vishnu and Indra, who still sits in his temple on the Ganges reading the Vedas, or dwells at the root of a tree with his crust and water jug. I meet his servant come to draw water for his master, and our buckets as it were grate together in the same well. The pure Walden water is mingled with the sacred water of the Ganges." -Henry David Thoreau
"The language of Friendship is not words, but meanings." -Henry David Thoreau
"As you simplify your life, the laws of the universe will be simpler; solitude will not be solitude, poverty will not be poverty, nor weakness weakness." -Henry David Thoreau
"What is the use of a house if you haven't got a tolerable planet to put it on?" -Henry David Thoreau
"An early-morning walk is a blessing for the whole day." -Henry David Thoreau
"Could a greater miracle take place than for us to look through each other's eyes for an instant?" -Henry David Thoreau
"This world is but canvas to our imaginations." -Henry David Thoreau
"Only that day dawns to which we are awake. There is more day to dawn. The sun is but a morning star." -Henry David Thoreau
"I was once reproved by a minister who was driving a poor beast to some meeting-house horse-sheds among the hills of New Hampshire, because I was bending my steps to a mountain-top on the Sabbath, instead of a church, when I would have gone farther than he to hear a true word spoken on that or any day. He declared that I was 'breaking the Lord's fourth commandment,' and proceeded to enumerate, in a sepulchral tone, the disasters which had befallen him whenever he had done any ordinary work on the Sabbath. He really thought that a god was on the watch to trip up those men who followed any secular work on this day, and did not see that it was the evil conscience of the workers that did it. . There are few things more disheartening and disgusting than when you are walking the streets of a strange village on the Sabbath, to hear a preacher shouting like a boatswain in a gale of wind, and thus harshly profaning the quiet atmosphere of the day." -Henry David Thoreau
"When I hear music, I fear no danger. I am invulnerable. I see no foe. I am related to the earliest times, and to the latest." -Henry David Thoreau
"I do believe in simplicity. It is astonishing as well as sad, how many trivial affairs even the wisest thinks he must attend to in a day; how singular an affair he thinks he must omit. When the mathematician would solve a difficult problem, he first frees the equation of all incumbrances, and reduces it to its simplest terms. So simplify the problem of life, distinguish the necessary and the real. Probe the earth to see where your main roots run. " -Henry David Thoreau
"It is never too late to give up your prejudices" -Henry David Thoreau
"The mass of men lead lives of quiet desperation." -Henry David Thoreau
"How many a man has dated a new era in his life from the reading of a book." -Henry David Thoreau
"The preachers and lecturers deal with men of straw, as they are men of straw themselves. Why, a free-spoken man, of sound lungs, cannot draw a long breath without causing your rotten institutions to come toppling down by the vacuum he makes. Your church is a baby-house made of blocks, and so of the state....The church, the state, the school, the magazine, think they are liberal and free! It is the freedom of a prison-yard." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is not worth the while to let our imperfections disturb us always." -Henry David Thoreau
"...for my greatest skill has been to want but little." -Henry David Thoreau
"I say, beware of all enterprises that require new clothes, and not rather a new wearer of clothes." -Henry David Thoreau
"If one advances confidently in the direction of his dreams, and endeavors to live the life which he has imagined, he will meet with a success unexpected in common hours. He will put some things behind, will pass an invisible boundary; new, universal, and more liberal laws will begin to establish themselves around and within him; or the old laws be expanded, and interpreted in his favor in a more liberal sense, and he will live with the license of a higher order of beings." -Henry David Thoreau
"Write while the heat is in you. The writer who postpones the recording of his thoughts uses an iron which has cooled to burn a hole with. He cannot inflame the minds of his audience." -Henry David Thoreau
"However mean your life is, meet and live it; do not shun it and call it hard names. It is not so bad as you are. It looks poorest when you are richest. The fault-finder will find faults even in paradise. Love your life, poor as it is. You may perhaps have some pleasant, thrilling, glorious hours, even in a poorhouse. The setting sun is reflected from the windows of the almshouse as brightly as from the rich man's abode; the snow melts before its doors as early in the spring. Cultivate property like a garden herb, like sage. Do not trouble yourself much to get new things, whether clothes or friends. Turn the old; return to them. Things do not change; we change. Sell your clothes and keep your thoughts… Superfluous wealth can buy superfluities only. Money is not required to buy one necessary of the soul." -Henry David Thoreau
"If the day and the night are such that you greet them with joy, and life emits a fragrance like flowers and sweet-scented herbs, is more elastic, more starry, more immortal- that is your success. All nature is your congratulation, and you have cause momentarily to bless yourself. The greatest gains and values are farthest from being appreciated. We easily come to doubt if they exist. We soon forget them. They are the highest reality. Perhaps the facts most astounding and most real are never communicated by man to man. The true harvest of my daily life is somewhat as intangible and indescribable as the tints of morning or evening. It is a little star-dust caught, a segment of the rainbow which I have clutched." -Henry David Thoreau
"The most I can do for my friend is simply to be his friend." -Henry David Thoreau
"There are a thousand hacking at the branches of evil to one who is striking at the root." -Henry David Thoreau
"Pursue some path, however narrow and crooked, in which you can walk with love and reverence." -Henry David Thoreau
"I had three chairs in my house; one for solitude, two for friendship, three for society." -Henry David Thoreau
"Say what you have to say, not what you ought. Any truth is better than make-believe." -Henry David Thoreau
"Take long walks in stormy weather or through deep snows in the fields and woods, if you would keep your spirits up. Deal with brute nature. Be cold and hungry and weary." -Henry David Thoreau
"If you would convince a man that he does wrong, do right. But do not care to convince him. Men will believe what they see. Let them see." -Henry David Thoreau
"I am grateful for what I am and have. My thanksgiving is perpetual. It is surprising how contented one can be with nothing definite - only a sense of existence. Well, anything for variety. I am ready to try this for the next ten thousand years, and exhaust it. How sweet to think of! my extremities well charred, and my intellectual part too, so that there is no danger of worm or rot for a long while. My breath is sweet to me. O how I laugh when I think of my vague indefinite riches. No run on my bank can drain it, for my wealth is not possession but enjoyment." -Henry David Thoreau
"The mass of men lead lives of quiet desperation. What is called resignation is confirmed desperation. From the desperate city you go into the desperate country, and have to console yourself with the bravery of minks and muskrats. A stereotyped but unconscious despair is concealed even under what are called the games and amusements of mankind. There is no play in them, for this comes after work. But it is a characteristic of wisdom not to do desperate things." -Henry David Thoreau
"If a man does not keep pace with his companions, perhaps it is because he hears a different drummer. Let him step to the music which he hears, however measured or far away.It is not important that he should mature as soon as an apple-tree oran oak. Shall he turn his spring into summer?" -Henry David Thoreau
"I can alter my life by altering my attitude. He who would have nothing to do with thorns must never attempt to gather flowers." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is not enough to be industrious; so are the ants. What are you industrious about?" -Henry David Thoreau
"Every morning was a cheerful invitation to make my life of equal simplicity, and I may say innocence, with Nature herself." -Henry David Thoreau
"The universe is wider than our views of it." -Henry David Thoreau
"If the injustice is part of the necessary friction of the machine of government, let it go, let it go: perchance it will wear smooth--certainly the machine will wear out… but if it is of such a nature that it requires you to be the agent of injustice to another, then I say, break the law. Let your life be a counter-friction to stop the machine. What I have to do is to see, at any rate, that I do not lend myself to the wrong which I condemn." -Henry David Thoreau
"A truly good book…teaches me better than to read it. I must soon lay it down and commence living on its hint. When I read an indifferent book, it seems the best thing I can do, but the inspiring volume hardly leaves me leisure to finish its latter pages. It is slipping out of my fingers while I read…What I began by reading I must finish by acting." -Henry David Thoreau
"Wildness is the preservation of the World." -Henry David Thoreau
"I have an immense appetite for solitude, like an infant for sleep, and if I don't get enough for this year, I shall cry all the next. " -Henry David Thoreau
"The path of least resistance leads to crooked rivers and crooked men." -Henry David Thoreau
"One farmer says to me, 'You cannot live on vegetable food solely, for it furnishes nothing to make bones with;' and so he religiously devotes a part of his day to supplying his system with the raw material of bones; walking all the while he talks behind his oxen, which, with vegetable-made bones, jerk him and his lumbering plow along in spite of every obstacle." -Henry David Thoreau
"Friends... they cherish one another's hopes. They are kind to one another's dreams." -Henry David Thoreau
"On the death of a friend, we should consider that the fates through confidence have devolved on us the task of a double living, that we have henceforth to fulfill the promise of our friend's life also, in our own, to the world." -Henry David Thoreau
"Amid a world of noisy, shallow actors it is noble to stand aside and say, 'I will simply be." -Henry David Thoreau
"Men have become the tools of their tools." -Henry David Thoreau
"A lake is a landscape's most beautiful and expressive feature. It is Earth's eye; looking into which the beholder measures the depth of his own nature." -Henry David Thoreau
"A written word is the choicest of relics. It is something at once more intimate with us and more universal than any other work of art. It is the work of art nearest to life itself. It may be translated into every language, and not only be read but actually breathed from all human lips; -- not be represented on canvas or in marble only, but be carved out of the breath of life itself." -Henry David Thoreau
"Go confidently in the direction of your dreams! Live the life you've imagined. As you simplify your life, the laws of the universe will be simpler." -Henry David Thoreau
"Public opinion is a weak tyrant compared with our own private opinion. what a man thinks of himself, that it is which determines, or rather indicates, his fate." -Henry David Thoreau
"Unjust laws exist; shall we be content to obey them, or shall we endeavor to amend them, and obey them until we have succeeded, or shall we transgress them at once? Men generally, under such a government as this, think that they ought to wait until they have persuaded the majority to alter them. They think that, if they should resist, the remedy would be worse than the evil. But it is the fault of the government itself that the remedy is worse than the evil. It makes it worse. Why is it not more apt to anticipate and provide for reform? Why does it not cherish its wise minority? Why does it cry and resist before it is hurt? Why does it not encourage its citizens to be on the alert to point out its faults, and do better than it would have them?" -Henry David Thoreau
"We are born as innocents. We are polluted by advice." -Henry David Thoreau
"I have, as it were, my own sun and moon and stars, and a little world all to myself." -Henry David Thoreau
"Thank God men cannot fly, and lay waste the sky as well as the earth." -Henry David Thoreau
"I should not talk so much about myself if there were anybody else whom I knew as well." -Henry David Thoreau
"When we are unhurried and wise, we perceive that only great and worthy things have any permanent and absolute existence, that petty fears and petty pleasures are but the shadow of the reality." -Henry David Thoreau
"Men are born to succeed, not to fail." -Henry David Thoreau
"If a plant cannot live according to its nature, it dies; and so a man." -Henry David Thoreau
"We are constantly invited to be what we are." -Henry David Thoreau
"That man is the richest whose pleasures are the cheapest. " -Henry David Thoreau
"What sort of philosophers are we, who know absolutely nothing of the origin and destiny of cats?" -Henry David Thoreau
"Simplicity, simplicity, simplicity! I say, let your affairs be as two or three, and not a hundred or a thousand; instead of a million count half a dozen, and keep your accounts on your thumb nail." -Henry David Thoreau
"To be a philosopher is not merely to have subtle thoughts, nor even to found a school, but so to love wisdom as to live according to its dictates, a life of simplicity, independence, magnanimity and trust." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is better to have your head in the clouds, and know where you are... than to breathe the clearer atmosphere below them, and think that you are in paradise." -Henry David Thoreau
"Books must be read as deliberately and reservedly as they were written." -Henry David Thoreau
"I have no doubt that it is part of the destiny of the human race in it's gradual improvement, to leave off eating animals." -Henry David Thoreau
"Happiness is like a butterfly, the more you chase it, the more it will evade you, but if you notice the other things around you, it will gently come and sit on your shoulder." -Henry David Thoreau
"I make myself rich by making my wants few." -Henry David Thoreau
"Cultivate poverty like a garden herb, like sage. Do not trouble yourself much to get new things, whether clothes or friends. Turn the old; return to them. Things do not change; we change. Sell your clothes and keep your thoughts. God will see that you do not want society." -Henry David Thoreau
"What you get by achieving your goals is not as important as what you become by achieving your goals." -Henry David Thoreau
"You must live in the present, launch yourself on every wave, find your eternity in each moment." -Henry David Thoreau
"I heartily accept the motto, 'That government is best which governs least'; and I should like to see it acted up to more rapidly and systematically. Carried out, it finally amounts to this, which also I believe -- 'That government is best which governs not at all'; and when men are prepared for it, that will be the kind of government which they will have. Government is at best but an expedient; but most governments are usually, and all governments are sometimes, inexpedient." -Henry David Thoreau
"Renew thyself completely each day." -Henry David Thoreau
"I have a room all to myself; it is nature." -Henry David Thoreau
"What does education often do? It makes a straight-cut ditch of a free, meandering brook." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is not that we love to be alone, but that we love to soar, and when we do soar, the company grows thinner and thinner until there is none at all. …We are not the less to aim at the summits though the multitude does not ascend them." -Henry David Thoreau
"If a man does not keep pace with his companions, perhaps it is because he hears a different drummer." -Henry David Thoreau
"This curious world we inhabit is more wonderful than convenient; more beautiful than it is useful; it is more to be admired and enjoyed than used." -Henry David Thoreau
"The heart is forever inexperienced." -Henry David Thoreau
"Books are the treasured wealth of the world and the fit inheritance of generations and nations. Books, the oldest and the best, stand naturally and rightfully on the shelves of every cottage. They have no cause of their own to plead, but while they enlighten and sustain the reader his common sense will not refuse them. Their authors are a natural and irresistible aristocracy in every society, and, more than kings or emperors, exert an influence on mankind." -Henry David Thoreau
"The keeping of bees is like the direction of sunbeams." -Henry David Thoreau
"All voting is a sort of gaming, like checkers or back gammon, with a slight moral tinge to it, a playing with right and wrong, with moral questions; and betting naturally accompanies it. The character of the voters is not staked. I cast my vote, perchance, as I think right; but I am not vitally concerned that that right should prevail. I am willing to leave it to the majority. Its obli­gation, therefore, never exceeds that of expediency. Even voting for the right is doing nothing for it. It is only expressing to men feebly your desire that it should prevail. A wise man will not leave the right to the mercy of chance, nor wish it to prevail through the power of the majority." -Henry David Thoreau
"In human intercourse the tragedy begins, not when there is misunderstanding about words, but when silence is not understood" -Henry David Thoreau
"A single gentle rain makes the grass many shades greener. So our prospects brighten on the influx of better thoughts. We should be blessed if we lived in the present always, and took advantage of every accident that befell us." -Henry David Thoreau
"The fault-finder will find faults even in paradise. Love your life, poor as it is. You may perhaps have some pleasant, thrilling, glorious hours, even in a poor-house. The setting sun is reflected from the windows of the alms-house as brightly as from the rich man's abode; the snow melts before its door as early in the spring. I do not see but a quiet mind may live as contentedly there, and have as cheering thoughts, as in a palace." -Henry David Thoreau
"Every path but your own is the path of fate. Keep on your own track, then." -Henry David Thoreau
"And I am sure that I never read any memorable news in a newspaper. If we read of one man robbed, or murdered, or killed by accident, or one house burned, or one vessel wrecked, or one steamboat blown up, or one cow run over on the Western Railroad, or one mad dog killed, or one lot of grasshoppers in the winter, - we need never read of another. One is enough. If you are acquainted with the principle, what do you care for a myriad instances and applications?" -Henry David Thoreau
"Do not hire a man who does your work for money, but him who does it for love of it." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is desirable that a man live in all respects so simply and preparedly that if an enemy take the town... he can walk out the gate empty-handed and without anxiety." -Henry David Thoreau
"Be resolutely and faithfully what you are; be humbly what you aspire to be." -Henry David Thoreau
"When I consider that the nobler animal have been exterminated here - the cougar, the panther, lynx, wolverine, wolf, bear, moose, dear, the beaver, the turkey and so forth and so forth, I cannot but feel as if I lived in a tamed and, as it were, emasculated country... Is it not a maimed and imperfect nature I am conversing with? As if I were to study a tribe of Indians that had lost all it's warriors...I take infinite pains to know all the phenomena of the spring, for instance, thinking that I have here the entire poem, and then, to my chagrin, I hear that it is but an imperfect copy that I possess and have read, that my ancestors have torn out many of the first leaves and grandest passages, and mutilated it in many places. I should not like to think that some demigod had come before me and picked out some of the best of the stars. I wish to know an entire heaven and an entire earth." -Henry David Thoreau
"Simplify, simplify." -Henry David Thoreau
"Time is but the stream I go a-fishing in. I drink at it; but while I drink I see the sandy bottom and detect how shallow it is. Its thin current slides away, but eternity remains." -Henry David Thoreau
"If I repent of anything, it is very likely to be my good behavior. What demon possessed me that I behaved so well?" -Henry David Thoreau
"Society is commonly too cheap. We meet at very short intervals, not having had time to acquire any new value for each other. We meet at meals three times a day, and give each other a new taste of that old musty cheese that we are." -Henry David Thoreau
"Life in us is like the water in a river." -Henry David Thoreau
"To be awake is to be alive. I have never yet met a man who was quite awake." -Henry David Thoreau
"Night is certainly more novel and less profane than day." -Henry David Thoreau
"The man who goes alone can start today; but he who travels with another must wait until that other is ready, and it may be a long time before they get off." -Henry David Thoreau
"It takes two to speak the truth - one to speak and another to hear." -Henry David Thoreau
"Even voting  is  nothing for it. It is only expressing to men feebly your desire that it should prevail. A wise man will not leave the right to the mercy of chance, nor wish it to prevail through the power of the majority. There is but little virtue in the action of masses of men." -Henry David Thoreau
"Enthusiasm is a supernatural serenity." -Henry David Thoreau
"Confucius said, 'To know that we know what we know, and that we do not know what we do not know, that is true knowledge." -Henry David Thoreau
"In any weather, at any hour of the day or night, I have been anxious to improve the nick of time, and notch it on my stick too; to stand on the meeting of two eternities, the past and future, which is precisely the present moment; to toe that line." -Henry David Thoreau
"Our whole life is startlingly moral. There is never an instant's truce between virtue and vice. Goodness is the only investment that never fails." -Henry David Thoreau
"I have no doubt that it is a part of the destiny of the human race, in its gradual improvement, to leave off eating animals, as surely as savage tribes have left off eating each other when they came in contact with the more civilized." -Henry David Thoreau
"Beware of all enterprises that require new clothes." -Henry David Thoreau
"In the long run men only hit what they aim at. Therefore, though they should fail immediately, they had better aim at something high." -Henry David Thoreau
"To read well, that is, to read true books in a true spirit, is a noble exercise, and one that will tax the reader more than any exercise which the customs of the day esteem. It requires a training such as the athletes underwent, the steady intention almost of the whole life to this object. Books must be read as deliberately and reservedly as they were written." -Henry David Thoreau
"If you want to be happy, be!" -Henry David Thoreau
"The greatest art is to shape the quality of the day. " -Henry David Thoreau
"Why should we be in such desperate haste to succeed and in such desperate enterprises? If a man does not keep pace with his companions, perhaps it is because he hears a different drummer. Let him step to the music which he hears, however measured or far away." -Henry David Thoreau
"All change is a miracle to contemplate, but it is a miracle which is taking place every instant." -Henry David Thoreau
"Though I do not believe that a plant will spring up where no seed hasbeen, I have great faith in a seed. Convince me that you have a seedthere, and I am prepared to expect wonders." -Henry David Thoreau
"I left the woods for as good a reason as I went there. Perhaps it seemed to me that I had several more lives to live, and could not spare any more time for that one." -Henry David Thoreau
"While civilization has been improving our houses, it has not equally improved the men who are to inhabit them" -Henry David Thoreau
"If a man walks in the woods for love of them half of each day, he is in danger of being regarded as a loafer; but if he spends his whole day as a spectulator, shearing off those woods and making the earth bald before her time, he is esteemed an industrious and enterprising citizen." -Henry David Thoreau
"As to conforming outwardly and living your own life inwardly, I do not think much of that." -Henry David Thoreau
"The whole course of human history may depend on a change of heart in a single, solitary, even humble individual. For it is within the soul of the individual that the battle between good and evil is waged and ultimately won or lost." -Henry David Thoreau
"He who hears the rippling of rivers in these degenerate days will not utterly despair." -Henry David Thoreau
"In the long run, we only hit what we aim at." -Henry David Thoreau
"There will never be a really free and enlightened state until the state comes to recognize the individual as a higher and independent power, from which all its own power and authority are derived." -Henry David Thoreau
"Live your beliefs and you can turn the world around." -Henry David Thoreau
"I do not know how to distinguish between waking life and a dream. Are we not always living the life that we imagine we are?" -Henry David Thoreau
"The only remedy for love is to love more." -Henry David Thoreau
"A single gentle rain makes the grass many shades greener. So our prospects brighten on the influx of better thoughts. We should be blessed if we lived in the present always, and took advantage of every accident that befell us, like the grass which confesses the influence of the slightest dew that falls on it; and did not spend our time in atoning for the neglect of past opportunities, which we call doing our duty. We loiter in winter while it is already spring." -Henry David Thoreau
"Love must be as much a light as it is a flame." -Henry David Thoreau
"I wanted to live deep and suck out all the marrow of life, to live so sturdily and Spartan-like as to put to rout all that was not life" -Henry David Thoreau
"Any man more right than his neighbors constitutes a majority of one already." -Henry David Thoreau
"We hear and apprehend only what we already half know." -Henry David Thoreau
"It's not what you look at that matters, it's what you see." -Henry David Thoreau
"Man wanted a home, a place for warmth, or comfort, first of physical warmth, then the warmth of the affections." -Henry David Thoreau
"Public opinion is a weak tyrant compared with our own private opinion." -Henry David Thoreau
"Disobedience is the true foundation of liberty." -Henry David Thoreau
"There is danger that we lose sight of what our friend is absolutely, while considering what she is to us alone." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is never too late to give up our prejudices. No way of thinking or doing, however ancient, can be trusted without proof. What everybody echoes or in silence passes by as true today may turn out to be falsehood tomorrow, mere smoke of opinion, which some had trusted for a cloud that would sprinkle fertilizing rain on their fields." -Henry David Thoreau
"The squirrel that you kill in jest, dies in earnest." -Henry David Thoreau
"Our inventions are wont to be pretty toys, which distract our attention from serious things. They are but improved means to an unimproved end, an end which it was already but too easy to arrive at; as railroads lead to Boston or New York. We are in great haste to construct a magnetic telegraph from Maine to Texas; but Maine and Texas, it may be, have nothing important to communicate." -Henry David Thoreau
"The morning, which is the most memorable season of the day, is the awakening hour. Then there is least somnolence in us; and for an hour, at least, some part of us awakes which slumbers all the rest of the day and night... All memorable events, I should say, transpire in morning time and in a morning atmosphere. The Vedas say, 'All intelligences awake with the morning." -Henry David Thoreau
"The finest qualities of our nature, like the bloom on fruits, can be preserved only by the most delicate handling. Yet we do not treat ourselves nor one another thus tenderly." -Henry David Thoreau
"But it is a characteristic of wisdom not to do desperate things." -Henry David Thoreau
"See how he cowers and sneaks, how vaguely all the day he fears, not being immortal nor divine, but the slave and prisoner of his own opinion of himself, a fame won by his own deeds. Public opinion is a weak tyrant compared with our own private opinion. What a man thinks of himself, that it is which determines, or rather indicates, his fate." -Henry David Thoreau
"I found in myself, and still find, an instinct toward a higher, or, as it is named, spiritual life, as do most men, and another toward a primitive rank and savage one, and I reverence them both. I love the wild not less than the good." -Henry David Thoreau
"Rise free from care before the dawn, and seek adventures." -Henry David Thoreau
"He who distinguishes the true savor of his food can never be a glutton; he who does not cannot be otherwise." -Henry David Thoreau
"I believe in the forest, and in the meadow, and in the night in which the corn grows." -Henry David Thoreau
"Books can only reveal us to ourselves, and as often as they do us this service we lay them aside." -Henry David Thoreau
"As long as possible live free and uncommitted. It makes but little difference whether you are committed to a farm or the county jail." -Henry David Thoreau
"Spending of the best part of one's life earning money in order to enjoy questionable liberty during the least valuable part of it, reminds me of the Englishman who went to India to make a fortune first, in order that he might return to England and live the life of a poet. He should have gone up garret at once." -Henry David Thoreau
"The true harvest of my life is intangible - a little star dust caught, a portion of the rainbow I have clutched." -Henry David Thoreau
"The surface of the earth is soft and impressible by the feet of men; and so with the paths which the mind travels. How worn and dusty, then, must be the highways of the world, how deep the ruts of tradition and conformity! I did not wish to take a cabin passage, but rather to go before the mast and on the deck of the world, for there I could best see the moonlight amid the mountains." -Henry David Thoreau
"I had not lived there a week before my feet wore a path from my door to the pond-side; and though it is five or six years since I trod it, it is still quite distinct. It is true, I fear that others may have fallen into it, and so helped to keep it open. The surface of the earth is soft and impressible by the feet of men; and so with the paths which the mind travels. How worn and dusty, then, must be the highways of the world, how deep the ruts of tradition and conformity!" -Henry David Thoreau
"A gun will give you the body, not the bird" -Henry David Thoreau
"Most of the luxuries, and many of the so called comforts of life, are not only indispensable, but positive hinderances to the elevation of mankind. With respect to luxuries and comforts, the wisest have ever lived a more simple and meagre life than the poor." -Henry David Thoreau
"A taste for the beautiful is most cultivated out of doors" -Henry David Thoreau
"Every creature is better alive than dead, men and moose and pine trees, and he who understands it aright will rather preserve its life than destroy it. " -Henry David Thoreau
"Goodness is the only investment that never fails." -Henry David Thoreau
"The civilized man is a more experienced and wiser savage." -Henry David Thoreau
"Read not the Times, read the Eternities." -Henry David Thoreau
"The true price of anything you do is the amount of time you exchange for it." -Henry David Thoreau
"No man ever followed his genius til it misled him." -Henry David Thoreau
"Nature is as well adapted to our weakness as to our strength." -Henry David Thoreau
"A man may be very industrious, and yet not spend his time well. There is no more fatal blunderer than he who consumes the greater part of life getting his living." -Henry David Thoreau
"Don't be afraid that your life will end, be afraid that it will never begin!" -Henry David Thoreau
"A man can suffocate on courtesy." -Henry David Thoreau
"Society is commonly too cheap. We meet at very short intervals, not having had time to acquire any new value for each other.We meet at meals three times a day, and give each other a new taste of that musty old cheese that we are. We have had to agree on a certain set of rules, called etiquette and politeness, to make this frequent meeting tolerable and that we need not come to open war. We meet at the post office, and at the sociable, and at the fireside every night; we live thick and are in each other's way, and stumble over one another, and I think that we thus lose some respect for one another." -Henry David Thoreau
"Direct your eye inward, and you'll find / A thousand regions in your mind / Yet undiscovered. Travel them, and be / Expert in home-cosmography" -Henry David Thoreau
"The greater part of what my neighbors call good I believe in my soul to be bad, and if I repent of anything, it is very likely to be my good behavior. What demon possessed me that I behaved so well?" -Henry David Thoreau
"The millions are awake enough for physical labor; but only one in a million is awake enough for effective intellectual exertion, only one in a hundred millions to a poetic or divine life. To be awake is to be alive." -Henry David Thoreau
"I will come to you, my friend, when I no longer need you. Then you will find a palace, not an almshouse." -Henry David Thoreau
"What people say you cannot do, you try and find that you can." -Henry David Thoreau
"I am alarmed when it happens that I have walked a mile into the woods bodily, without getting there in spirit." -Henry David Thoreau
"The most I can do for my friend is simply to be his friend. I have no wealth to bestow on him. If he knows that I am happy in loving him, he will want no other reward. Is not friendship divine in this?" -Henry David Thoreau
"I took a walk in the woods and came out taller than the trees" -Henry David Thoreau
"My desire for knowledge is intermittent; but my desire to bathe my head in atmospheres unknown to my feet is perennial and constant." -Henry David Thoreau
"Sometimes, in a summer morning,having taken my accustomed bath, I sat in my sunny doorway from sunrisetill noon, rapt in a revery, amidst the pines and hickories and sumachs,in undisturbed solitude and stillness, while the birds sing around orflitted noiseless through the house, until by the sun falling in atmy west window, or the noise of some traveller's wagon on the distanthighway, I was reminded of the lapse of time. I grew in those seasonslike corn in the night, and they were far better than any work of thehands would have been. They were not time subtracted from my life, butso much over and above my usual allowance. I realized what the Orientalsmean by contemplation and the forsaking of works. For the most part, Iminded not how the hours went. The day advanced as if to light somework of mine; it was morning, and lo, now it is evening, and nothingmemorable is accomplished." -Henry David Thoreau
"I put a piece of paper under my pillow, and when I could not sleep I wrote in the dark." -Henry David Thoreau
"Morning brings back the heroic ages. There was something cosmical about it; a standing advertisement, till forbidden, of the everlasting vigor and fertility of the world. The morning, which is the most memorable season of the day, is the awakening hour. Then there is least somnolence in us; and for an hour, at least, some part of us awakes which slumbers all the rest of the day and night." -Henry David Thoreau
"We are in great haste to construct a magnetic telegraph from Maine to Texas; but Maine and Texas, it may be, have nothing important to communicate... We are eager to tunnel under the Atlantic and bring the old world some weeks nearer to the new; but perchance the first news that will leak through into the broad flapping American ear will be that Princess Adelaide has the whooping cough." -Henry David Thoreau
"The rich man is always sold to the institution which makes him rich." -Henry David Thoreau
"I once had a sparrow alight upon my shoulder for a moment, while I was hoeing in a village garden, and I felt that I was more distinguished by that circumstance than I should have been by any epaulet I could have worn." -Henry David Thoreau
"Speech is for the convenience of those who are hard of hearing; but there are many fine things which we cannot say if we have to shout." -Henry David Thoreau
"I know of no more encouraging fact than the unquestionable ability of man to elevate his life by conscious endeavor." -Henry David Thoreau
"Most men, even in this comparatively free country, through mere ignorance and mistake, are so occupied with the factitious cares and superfluously coarse labors of life that its finer fruits cannot be plucked by them." -Henry David Thoreau
"I silently smiled at my incessant good fortune." -Henry David Thoreau
"Comparatively, tattooing is not the hideous custom which it is called. It is not barbarous merely because the printing is skin-deep and unalterable." -Henry David Thoreau
"Be not simply good; be good for something." -Henry David Thoreau
"I am no more lonely than a single mullein or dandelion in a pasture, or abean leaf, or sorrel, or a horse-fly, or a bumblebee. I am no more lonelythan the Mill Brook, or a weathercock, or the north star, or the southwind, or an April shower, or a January thaw, or the first spider in a newhouse." -Henry David Thoreau
"Unjust laws exist: shall we be content to obey them, or shall we endeavor to amend them, and obey them until we have succeeded, or shall we transgress them at once?" -Henry David Thoreau
"Begin where you are and such as you are, without aiming mainly to become of more worth, and with kindness aforethought, go about doing good." -Henry David Thoreau
"If you can speak what you will never hear, if you can write what you will never read, you have done rare things." -Henry David Thoreau
"We should impart our courage and not our despair." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is not enough to be busy; so are the ants. The question is: What are we busy about?" -Henry David Thoreau
"A single footstep will not make a path on the earth, so a single thought will not make a pathway in the mind. To make a deep physical path, we walk again and again. To make a deep mental path, we must think over and over the kind of thoughts we wish to dominate our lives." -Henry David Thoreau
"Must the citizen ever for a moment, or in the least degree, resigns his conscience to the legislator? Why has every man a conscience then? I think that we should be men first, and subjects afterward." -Henry David Thoreau
"The youth gets together his materials to build a bridge to the moon, or, perchance, a palace or temple on the earth, and, at length, the middle-aged man concludes to build a woodshed with them." -Henry David Thoreau
"Some men fish all their lives without knowing it is not really the fish they are after." -Henry David Thoreau
"Every blade in the field - Every leaf in the forest - lays down its life in its season as beautifully as it was taken up." -Henry David Thoreau
"To a philosopher all news is gossip, and they who edit and read it are old women over their tea." -Henry David Thoreau
"To a philosopher all news is gossip, and they who edit and read it are old women over their tea." -Henry David Thoreau
"There are nowadays professors of philosophy, but not philosophers." -Henry David Thoreau
"Time is but the stream I go a-fishing in" -Henry David Thoreau
"If a man is alive, there is always danger that he may die, though the danger must be allowed to be less in proportion as he is dead-and-alive to begin with. A man sits as many risks as he runs." -Henry David Thoreau
"Most of the luxuries, and many of the so-called comforts of life, are not only not indispensable, but positive hindrances to the elevation of mankind." -Henry David Thoreau
"I believe that there is a subtle magnetism in Nature, which, if we unconsciously yield to it, will direct us aright." -Henry David Thoreau
"I had three pieces of limestone on my desk, but I was terrified to find that they required to be dusted daily, when the furniture of my mind was all undusted still, and threw them out the window in disgust." -Henry David Thoreau
"There is an incessant influx of novelty into the world, and yet we tolerate incredible dullness." -Henry David Thoreau
"Must the citizen ever for a moment, or in the least degree, resign his conscience to the legislator? Why has every man a conscience then? I think that we should be men first, and subjects afterward. It is not desirable to cultivate a respect for the law, so much as for the right. The only obligation which I have a right to assume is to do at any time what I think right." -Henry David Thoreau
"I am convinced that if all men were to live as simply as I then did, thieving and robbery would be unknown. These take place only in communities where some have got more than is sufficient while others have not enough." -Henry David Thoreau
"The perception of beauty is a moral test." -Henry David Thoreau
"There are thousands who are  opposed to slavery and to the war, who yet in effect do nothing to put an end to them; who, esteeming themselves children of Washington and Franklin, sit down with their hands in their pockets, and say that they know not what to do, and do nothing...." -Henry David Thoreau
"Thus men will lie on their backs, talking about the fall of man, and never make an effort to get up." -Henry David Thoreau
"let us spend one day as deliberately as Nature." -Henry David Thoreau
"Readers are plentiful; thinkers are rare" -Henry David Thoreau
"This world is a place of business. What an infinite bustle! I am awaked almost every night by the panting of the locomotive. It interrupts my dreams. There is no sabbath. It would be glorious to see mankind at leisure for once. It is nothing but work, work, work. I cannot easily buy a blank-book to write thoughts in; they are commonly ruled for dollars and cents. An Irishman, seeing me making a minute in the fields, took it for granted that I was calculating my wages. If a man was tossed out of a window when an infant, and so made a cripple for life, or scared out of his wits by the Indians, it is regretted chiefly because he was thus incapacitated for--business! I think that there is nothing, not even crime, more opposed to poetry, to philosophy, ay, to life itself, than this incessant business." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is remarkable how long men will believe in the bottomlessness of a pond without taking the trouble to sound it." -Henry David Thoreau
"Not long since, a strolling Indian went to sell baskets at the house of a well-known lawyer in my neighborhood. 'Do you wish to buy any baskets?' he asked. 'No, we do not want any,' was the reply. 'What!' exclaimed the Indian as he went out the gate, 'do you mean to starve us?' Having seen his industrious white neighbors so well off--that the lawyer had only to weave arguments, and, by some magic, wealth and standing followed--he had said to himself: I will go into business; I will weave baskets; it is a thing which I can do. Thinking that when he had made the baskets he would have done his part, and then it would be the white man's to buy them. He had not discovered that it was necessary for him to make it worth the other's while to buy them, or at least make him think that it was so, or to make something else which it would be worth his while to buy.I too had woven a kind of basket of a delicate texture, but I had not made it worth any one's while to buy them. Yet not the less, in my case, did I think it worth my while to weave them, and instead of studying how to make it worth men's while to buy my baskets, I studied rather how to avoid the necessity of selling them. The life which men praise and regard as successful is but one kind. Why should we exaggerate any one kind at the expense of the others?" -Henry David Thoreau
"I love Nature partly because she is not man, but a retreat from him. None of his institutions control or pervade her. There a different kind of right prevails. In her midst I can be glad with an entire gladness. If this world were all man, I could not stretch myself, I should lose all hope. He is constraint, she is freedom to me. He makes me wish for another world. She makes me content with this." -Henry David Thoreau
"We should treat our minds, that is, ourselves, as innocent and ingenuous children, whose guardians we are, and be careful what objects and what subjects we thrust on their attention. Read not the Times. Read the Eternities.. Knowledge does not come to us by details, but in flashes of light from heaven." -Henry David Thoreau
"For it matters not how small the beginning may seem to be: what is once well done is done forever." -Henry David Thoreau
"What a man thinks of himself, that it is which determines, or rather indicates, his fate." -Henry David Thoreau
"Every child begins the world again, to some extent, and loves to stay outdoors, even in wet and cold. It plays house, as well as horse, having an instinct for it...At last we know not what it is to live in the open air, and our lives are domestic in more senses than we think." -Henry David Thoreau
"A truly good book is something as natural, and as unexpectedly and unaccountably fair and perfect, as a wild flower discovered on the prairies of the West or in the jungles of the East. Genius is a light which makes the darkness visible, like the lightning's flash, which perchance shatters the temple of knowledge itself,--and not a taper lighted at the hearth-stone of the race, which pales before the light of common day." -Henry David Thoreau
"Why should we live with such hurry and waste of life?" -Henry David Thoreau
"Wealth is the ability to fully experience life." -Henry David Thoreau
"The church is a sort of hospital for men's souls and as full of quackery as the hospital for their bodies." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is not desirable to cultivate a respect for the law, so much as for the right." -Henry David Thoreau
"No man ever stood the lower in my estimation for having a patch in his clothes: yet I am sure that there is greater anxiety, commonly, to have fashionable, or at least clean and unpatched clothes, than to have a sound conscience." -Henry David Thoreau
"He enjoys true leisure who has time to improve his soul's estate." -Henry David Thoreau
"Let every one mind his own business, and endeavor to be what he was made." -Henry David Thoreau
"You must not blame me if I do talk to the clouds." -Henry David Thoreau
"The only sin in the world is ignorance." -Henry David Thoreau
"I think that I cannot preserve my health and spirits, unless I spend four hours a day at least--and it is commonly more than that--sauntering through the woods and over the hills and fields, absolutely free from all worldly engagements. You may safely say, A penny for your thoughts, or a thousand pounds. When sometimes I am reminded that the mechanics and shopkeepers stay in their shops not only all the forenoon, but all the afternoon too, sitting with crossed legs, so many of them--as if the legs were made to sit upon, and not to stand or walk upon--I think that they deserve some credit for not having all committed suicide long ago." -Henry David Thoreau
"Follow your genius closely enough, and it will not fail to show you a fresh prospect every hour." -Henry David Thoreau
"We should come home from far, from adventures, and perils, and discoveries every day, with new experience and character." -Henry David Thoreau
"My desire for knowledge is intermittent; but my desire to bathe my head in atmospheres unknown to my feet is perennial and constant. The highest that we can attain to is not Knowledge, but Sympathy with Intelligence. I do not know that this higher knowledge amounts to anything more definite than a novel and grand surprise on a sudden revelation of the insufficiency of all that we called Knowledge before,--a discovery that there are more things in heaven and earth than are dreamed of in our philosophy." -Henry David Thoreau
"This whole earth in which we inhabit is but a point is space." -Henry David Thoreau
"Humility like darkness reveals the heavenly lights." -Henry David Thoreau
"We should go forth on the shortest walk, perchance, in the spirit of undying adventure, never to return; prepared to send back our embalmed hearts only, as relics to our desolate kingdoms. If you are ready to leave father and mother, and brother and sister, and wife and child and friends, and never see them again; if you have paid your debts, and made your will, and settled all your affairs, and are a free man; then you are ready for a walk." -Henry David Thoreau
"Age is no better, hardly so well, qualified for an instructor as youth, for it has not profited so much as it has lost." -Henry David Thoreau
"Do not trouble yourself much to get new things, whether clothes or friends." -Henry David Thoreau
"In my opinion, the sun was made to light worthier toil than this." -Henry David Thoreau
"Silence is the universal refuge, the sequel to all dull discourses and all foolish acts, a balm to our every chagrin, as welcome after satiety as after disappointment; that background which the painter may not daub, be he master or bungler, and which, however awkward a figure we may have made in the foreground, remains ever our inviolable asylum, where no indignity can assail, no personality can disturb us." -Henry David Thoreau
"Our life is frittered away by detail...Simplicity, simplicity, simplicity! I say, let our affairs be as two or three, and not a hundred or a thousand...Simplify, simplify!" -Henry David Thoreau
"I wish my countrymen to consider, that whatever the human law may be, neither an individual nor a nation can ever commit the least act of injustice against the obscurest individual, without having to pay the penalty for it. A government which deliberately enacts injustice, and persists in it, will at length ever become the laughing-stock of the world." -Henry David Thoreau
"Why should we live with such hurry and waste of life? We are determined to be starved before we are hungry. Men say that a stitch in time saves nine, and so they take a thousand stitches today to save nine tomorrow." -Henry David Thoreau
"Men have become the tools of their tools. Money is not required to buy one necessity of the soul. Most of the luxuries and many of the so-called comforts of life are not only not indispensable, but positive hindrances to the elevation of mankind." -Henry David Thoreau
"The true harvest of my daily life is somewhat as intangible and indescribable as the tints of morning or evening. It is a little star-dust caught, a segment of the rainbow which I have clutched." -Henry David Thoreau
"There is some of the same fitness in a man's building his own house that there is in a bird's building its own nest. Who knows but if men constructed their dwellings with their own hands, and provided food for themselves and families simply and honestly enough, the poetic faculty would be universally developed, as birds universally sing when they are so engaged? But alas! we do like cowbirds and cuckoos, which lay their eggs in nests which other birds have built, and cheer no traveller with their chattering and unmusical notes. Shall we forever resign the pleasure of construction to the carpenter?" -Henry David Thoreau
"No way of thinking or doing, however ancient, can be trusted without proof." -Henry David Thoreau
"In an unjust society the only place for a just man is prison." -Henry David Thoreau
"But lo! men have become the tools of their tools." -Henry David Thoreau
"Read not the Times. Read the Eternities. Knowledge does not come to us by details, but in flashes of light from heaven." -Henry David Thoreau
"Perhaps the facts most astounding and most real are never communicated by man to man. The true harvest of my daily life is somewhat as intangible and indescribable as the tints of morning or evening. It is a little star-dust caught, a segment of the rainbow which I have clutched." -Henry David Thoreau
"I rejoice that there are owls. Let them do the idiotic and maniacal hooting for men. It is a sound admirably suited to swamps and twilight woods which no day illustrates, suggesting a vast and undeveloped nature which men have not recognized. They represent the stark twilight and unsatisfied thoughts which all have. All day the sun has shown on the surface of some savage swamp, where the double spruce stands hung with usnea lichens, and small hawks circulate above, and the chickadee lisps amid the evergreens, and the partridge and rabbit skulk beneath; and now a more dismal and fitting day dawns, and a different race of creatures awakes to express the meaning of Nature there." -Henry David Thoreau
"Absolutely speaking, the more money, the less virtue; for money comes between a man and his objects, and obtains them for him; it was certainly no great virtue to obtain it." -Henry David Thoreau
"I learned this, at least, by my experiment; that if one advances confidently in the direction of his dreams, and endeavors to live the life which he has imagined, he will meet with a success unexpected in common hours. He will put some things behind, will pass an invisible boundary; new, universal, and more liberal laws will begin to establish themselves around and within him; or the old laws be expanded, and interpreted in his favor in a more liberal sense, and he will live with the license of a higher order of beings. In proportion as he simplifies his life, the laws of the universe will appear less complex, and solitude will not be solitude, nor poverty poverty, nor weakness weakness. If you have built castles in the air, your work need not be lost; that is where they should be. Now put the foundations under them." -Henry David Thoreau
"There are a thousand hacking at the branches of evil to one who is striking at the root, and it may be that he who bestows the largest amount of time and money on the needy is doing the most by his mode of life to produce that misery which he strives in vain to relieve." -Henry David Thoreau
"I could not help being struck with the foolishness of that institution which treated me as if I were mere flesh and blood and bones, to be locked up." -Henry David Thoreau
"to one whose elastic and vigorous thoughts keep pace with the sun, the day is a perpetual morning. It matters not the labors and attitudes of men, morning is when I am awake and there is dawn in me. " -Henry David Thoreau
"I think that we may safely trust a good deal more than we do. We may waive just so much care of ourselves as we honestly bestow elsewhere. Nature is well adapted to our weakness as our strength. The incessant anxiety and strain of some is a well nigh incurable form of disease. We are made to exaggerate the importance of what work we do; and yet how much is not done by us! or, what if we had been taken sick? How vigilant we are! determined not to live by faith if we can avoid it; all the day long on the alert, at night we unwillingly say our prayers and commit ourselves to uncertainties. So thoroughly and sincerely are we compelled to live, reverencing our life, and denying the possibility of change. This is the only way, we say; but there are as many ways as there can be drawn radii from one centre. All change is a miracle to contemplate; but it is a miracle which is taking place every instant. Confucius said, 'To know that we know what we know, and that we do not know what we do not know, that is true knowledge.' When one man has reduced a fact of the imagination to be a fact to his understanding, I foresee that all men will at length establish their lives on that basis." -Henry David Thoreau
"I mean that they (students) should not play life, or study it merely, while the community supports them at this expensive game, but earnestly live it from beginning to end. How could youths better learn to live than by at once trying the experiment of living? Methinks this would exercise their minds as much as mathematics." -Henry David Thoreau
"Lee los mejores libros primero; lo más seguro es que no alcances a leerlos todos." -Henry David Thoreau
"There is no remedy for love but to love more.'- Henry David Thoreau" -Henry David Thoreau
"But man's capacities have never been measured; nor are we to judge of what he can do by any precedents, so little have been tried." -Henry David Thoreau
"Give me a wildness whose glance no civilization can endure" -Henry David Thoreau
"A common and natural result of an undue respect of law is, that you may see a file of soldiers, colonel, captain, corporal, privates, powder-monkeys, and all, marching in admirable order over hill and dale to the wars, against their wills, ay, against their common sense and consciences, which makes it very steep marching indeed, and produces a palpitation of the heart." -Henry David Thoreau
"In most books, the I, or first person, is omitted; in this it will be retained; that, in respect to egotism, is the main difference. We commonly do not remember that it is, after all, always the first person that is speaking. I should not talk so much about myself if there were anybody else whom I knew as well. Unfortunately, I am confined to this theme by the narrowness of my experience. Moreover, I, on my side, require of every writer, first or last, a simple and sincere account of his own life, and not merely what he has heard of other men's lives; some such account as he would send to his kindred from a distant land; for if he has lived sincerely, it must have been in a distant land to me. Perhaps these pages are more particularly addressed to poor students. As for the rest of my readers, they will accept such portions as apply to them. I trust that none will stretch the seams in putting on the coat, for it may do good service to him whom it fits." -Henry David Thoreau
"ONLY THE DAY DAWNS TO WHICH WE ARE AWAKE,IF WE ARE TO GRASP THE REALITY OF OUR LIFE WHILE WE HAVE IT,WE WILL NEED TO WAKE UP TO OUR MOMENTS,OTHERWISE,WHOLE DAYS,EVEN A WHOLE LIFE COULD SLIP BY UNNOTICED.." -Henry David Thoreau
"Man is the artificer of his own happiness." -Henry David Thoreau
"Let your life be a counter-friction to stop the machine. What I have to do is to see, at any rate, that I do not lend myself to the wrong which I condemn." -Henry David Thoreau
"Must the citizen ever for a moment, or in the least degree, resign his conscience, then? I think that we should be men first, and subjects afterward. It is not desirable to cultivate a respect for the law, so much as for the right." -Henry David Thoreau
"Every man is the builder of a temple, called his body, to the god he worships, after a style purely his own, nor can he get off by hammering marble instead. We are all sculptors and painters, and our material is our own flesh and blood and bones. Any nobleness begins at once to refine a man's features, any meanness or sensuality to imbrute them." -Henry David Thoreau
"ليس كافيًا أن تكون مشغولًا. فكذلك النمل. السؤال هو: بماذا نحن مشغولون ؟" -Henry David Thoreau
"This whole earth which we inhabit is but a point in space. How far apart, think you, dwell the most distant inhabitants of yonder star, the breadth of whose disk cannot be appreciated by our instruments?" -Henry David Thoreau
"Life consists with Wildness. The most alive is the wildest. Not yet subdued to man, its presence refreshes him. One who pressed forward incessantly and never rested from his labors, who grew fast and made infinite demands on life, would always find himself in a new country or wilderness, and surrounded by the raw material of life. He would be climbing over the prostrate stems of primitive forest trees." -Henry David Thoreau
"As long as possible live free and uncommitted." -Henry David Thoreau
"Not that the story need be long, but it will take a long while to make it short.' [; November 16, 1857]" -Henry David Thoreau
"This is a delicious evening, when the whole body is one sense, and imbibes delight through every pore." -Henry David Thoreau
"Above all, we cannot afford not to live in the present. He is blessed over all mortals who loses no moment of the passing life in remembering the past." -Henry David Thoreau
"Every man is the builder of a temple called his body." -Henry David Thoreau
"Why should I feel lonely? is not our planet in the Milky Way?" -Henry David Thoreau
"If a thousand men were not to pay their tax bills this year, that would not be a violent and bloody measure, as it would be to pay them, and enable the State to commit violence and shed innocent blood. This is, in fact, the definition of a peaceable revolution, if any such is possible." -Henry David Thoreau
"Men sometimes speak as if the study of the classics would at length make way for more modern and practical studies; but the adventurous student will always study classics, in whatever language they may be written and however ancient they may be. For what are the classics but the noblest recorded thoughts of man? They are the only oracles which are not decayed, and there are such answers to the most modern inquiry in them as Delphi and Dodona never gave. We might as well omit to study Nature because she is old. To read well, that is, to read true books in a true spirit, is a noble exercise, and one that will task the reader more than any exercise which the customs of the day esteem." -Henry David Thoreau
"Yet, for my part, I was never usually squeamish; I could sometimes eat a fried rat with a good relish, if it were necessary. I am glad to have drunk water so long, for the same reason that I prefer the natural sky to an opium-eater's heaven. I would fain keep sober always; and there are infinite degrees of drunkenness. I believe that water is the only drink for a wise man; wine is not so noble a liquor; and think of dashing the hopes of a morning with a cup of warm coffee, or of an evening with a dish of tea! Ah, how low I fail when I am tempted by them! Even music may be intoxicating. Such apparently slight causes destroyed Greece and Rome, and will destroy England and America. Of all ebriosity, who does not prefer to be intoxicated by the air he breathes?" -Henry David Thoreau
"To affect the quality of the day, that is the highest of arts. Every man is tasked to make his life, even in its details, worthy of the contemplation of his most elevated and critical hour." -Henry David Thoreau
"There is just as much beauty visible to us in the landscape as we are prepared to appreciate, and not a grain more. ... A man sees only what concerns him." -Henry David Thoreau
"Our moments of inspiration are not lost though we have no particular poem to show for them; for those experiences have left an indelible impression, and we are ever and anon reminded of them. " -Henry David Thoreau
"I want the flower and fruit of a man; that some fragrance be wafted over from him to me, and some ripeness flavor our intercourse." -Henry David Thoreau
"I never found the companion that was so companionable as solitude." -Henry David Thoreau
"Your church is a baby-house made of blocks." -Henry David Thoreau
"I have always been regretting that I was not as wise as the day I was born." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is remarkable how easily and insensibly we fall into a particular route, and make a beaten track for ourselves. I had not lived there a week before my feet wore a path from my door to the pond-side; and though it is five or six years since I trod it, it is still quite distinct. It is true, I fear, that others may have fallen into it, and so helped to keep it open. The surface of the earth is soft and impressible by the feet of men; and so with the paths which the mind travels. How worn and dusty, then, must be the highways of the world, how deep the ruts of tradition and conformity!" -Henry David Thoreau
"In short, all good things are wild and free." -Henry David Thoreau
"Books are the carriers of civilization. Without books, history is silent." -Henry David Thoreau
"If we respected only what is inevitable and has a right to be, music and poetry would resound along the streets." -Henry David Thoreau
"What demon possessed me that I behaved so well?" -Henry David Thoreau
"The true and not despairing Friend will address his Friend in some such terms as these.'I never asked thy leave to let me love thee,--I have a right. I love thee not as something private and personal, which is your own, but as something universal and worthy of love, which I have found. O, how I think of you! You are purely good, --you are infinitely good. I can trust you forever. I did not think that humanity was so rich. Give me an opportunity to live." -Henry David Thoreau
"So long as a man is faithful to himself, everything is in his favor, government, society, the very sun, moon, and stars." -Henry David Thoreau
"Thoreau the 'Patron Saint of Swamps' because he enjoyed being in them and writing about them said, 'my temple is the swamp… When I would recreate myself, I seek the darkest wood, the thickest and most impenetrable and to the citizen, most dismal, swamp. I enter a swamp as a sacred place, a sanctum sanctorum… I seemed to have reached a new world, so wild a place…far away from human society. What's the need of visiting far-off mountains and bogs, if a half-hour's walk will carry me into such wildness and novelty." -Henry David Thoreau
"They can do without architecture who have no olives nor wines in the cellar" -Henry David Thoreau
"God himself culminates in the present moment, and will never be more divine in the lapse of all the ages." -Henry David Thoreau
"My days were not days of the week, bearing the stamp of any heathen deity, nor were they minced into hours and fretted by the ticking of a clock; for I lived like the Puri Indians, of whom it is said that 'for yesterday, today, and tomorrow they have only one word, and they express the variety of meaning by pointing backward for yesterday forward for tomorrow, and overhead for the passing day.' This was sheer idleness to my fellow-townsmen, no doubt; but if the birds and flowers had tried me by their standard, I should not have been found wanting." -Henry David Thoreau
"Talk of mysteries! -- Think of our life in nature, -- daily to be shown matter, to come in contact with it, -- rocks, trees, wind on our cheeks! The solid earth! The actual world! The common sense! Contact! Contact! Who are we? Where are we?" -Henry David Thoreau
"Make the most of your regrets; never smother your sorrow, but tend and cherish it till it comes to have a separate and integral interest. To regret deeply is to live afresh." -Henry David Thoreau
"You boast of spending a tenth part of your income in charity; may be you should spend the nine tenths so, and done with it." -Henry David Thoreau
"The question is not what you look at, but what you see. It is only necessary to behold the least fact or phenomenon, however familiar, from a point a hair's breadth aside from our habitual path or routine, to be overcome, enchanted by its beauty and significance." -Henry David Thoreau
"As long as I have the friendship of the sesasons life will never be a burden to me." -Henry David Thoreau
"To be right is more honorable than to be law abiding." -Henry David Thoreau
"A perfectly healthy sentence, it is true, is extremely rare. For the most part we miss the hue and fragrance of the thought; as if we could be satisfied with the dews of the morning or evening without their colors, or the heavens without their azure." -Henry David Thoreau
"If I should sell both my forenoons and afternoons to society, as most appear to do, I am sure that for me there would be nothing left worth living for. I trust that I shall never thus sell my birthright for a mess of pottage. I wish to suggest that a man may be very industrious, and yet not spend his time well. There is no more fatal blunderer than he who consumes the greater part of his life getting his living." -Henry David Thoreau
"Superfluous wealth can buy superfluities only. Money is not required to buy one necessary of the soul." -Henry David Thoreau
"The better part of the man is soon ploughed into the soil for compost. By a seeming fate, commonly called necessity, they are employed, as it says in an old book, laying up treasures which moth and rust will corrupt and thieves break through and steal. It is a fool's life, as they will find when they get to the end of it, if not before." -Henry David Thoreau
"Let us settle ourselves, and work and wedge our feet downwards through the mud and slush of opinion and tradition, and pride and prejudice, appearance and delusion, through the alluvium which covers the globe, through poetry and philosophy and religion, through church and state, through Paris and London, through New York and Boston and Concord, till we come to a hard bottom that rocks in place which we can call reality and say, 'This is and no mistake." -Henry David Thoreau
"They who have been bred in the school of politics fail now and always to face the facts." -Henry David Thoreau
"I did not know that mankind were suffering for want of gold. I have seen a little of it. I know that it is very malleable, but not so malleable as wit. A grain of gold will gild a great surface, but not so much as a grain of wisdom." -Henry David Thoreau
"Unjust laws exist: shall we be content to obey them, or shall we endeavor to amend them, and obey them until we have succeeded, or shall we transgress them at once? Men, generally, under such a government as this, think that they ought to wait until they have persuaded the majority to alter them. They think that, if they should resist, the remedy would be worse than the evil. But it is the fault of the government itself that the remedy is worse than the evil. It makes it worse. Why is it not more apt to anticipate and provide for reform? Why does it not cherish its wise minority? Why does it cry and resist before it is hurt? Why does it not encourage its citizens to put out its faults, and do better than it would have them? Why does it always crucify Christ and excommunicate Copernicus and Luther, and pronounce Washington and Franklin rebels?" -Henry David Thoreau
"A minority is powerless while it conforms to the majority." -Henry David Thoreau
"A Friend is one who incessantly pays us the compliment of expecting from us all the virtues, and who can appreciate them in us." -Henry David Thoreau
"The light which puts out our eyes is darkness to us." -Henry David Thoreau
"If the day and night are such that you greet them with joy, and life emits a fragrance like flowers and sweet-scented herbs, is more elastic, more starry, more immortal - that is your success." -Henry David Thoreau
"I believe that water is the only drink for a wise man." -Henry David Thoreau
"We are sometimes made aware of a kindness long passed, and realize that there have been times when our friends' thoughts of us were of so pure and lofty a character that they passed over us like the winds of heaven unnoticed; when they treated us not as what we were, but as what we aspired to be." -Henry David Thoreau
"I should not talk so much about myself if there were any body else whom I knew as well. Unfortunately, I am confined to this theme by the narrowness of my experience." -Henry David Thoreau
"All men recognize the right of revolution; that is, the right to refuse allegiance to, and to resist, the government, when its tyranny or its inefficiency are great and unendurable." -Henry David Thoreau
"This afternoon, being on Fair Haven Hill, I heard the sound of a saw, and soon after from the Cliff saw two men sawing down a noble pine beneath, about forty rods off. I resolved to watch it till it fell, the last of a dozen or more which were left when the forest was cut and for fifteen years have waved in solitary majesty over the sprout-land. I saw them like beavers or insects gnawing at the trunk of this noble tree, the diminutive manikins with their cross-cut saw which could scarcely span it. It towered up a hundred feet as I afterward found by measurement, one of the tallest probably in the township and straight as an arrow, but slanting a little toward the hillside, its top seen against the frozen river and the hills of Conantum. I watch closely to see when it begins to move. Now the sawers stop, and with an axe open it a little on the side toward which it leans, that it may break the faster. And now their saw goes again. Now surely it is going; it is inclined one quarter of the quadrant, and, breathless, I expect its crashing fall. But no, I was mistaken; it has not moved an inch; it stands at the same angle as at first. It is fifteen minutes yet to its fall. Still its branches wave in the wind, as it were destined to stand for a century, and the wind soughs through its needles as of yore; it is still a forest tree, the most majestic tree that waves over Musketaquid. The silvery sheen of the sunlight is reflected from its needles; it still affords an inaccessible crotch for the squirrel's nest; not a lichen has forsaken its mast-like stem, its raking mast,--the hill is the hulk. Now, now's the moment! The manikins at its base are fleeing from their crime. They have dropped the guilty saw and axe. How slowly and majestic it starts! as it were only swayed by a summer breeze, and would return without a sigh to its location in the air. And now it fans the hillside with its fall, and it lies down to its bed in the valley, from which it is never to rise, as softly as a feather, folding its green mantle about it like a warrior, as if, tired of standing, it embraced the earth with silent joy, returning its elements to the dust again. But hark! there you only saw, but did not hear. There now comes up a deafening crash to these rocks , advertising you that even trees do not die without a groan. It rushes to embrace the earth, and mingle its elements with the dust. And now all is still once more and forever, both to eye and ear.I went down and measured it. It was about four feet in diameter where it was sawed, about one hundred feet long. Before I had reached it the axemen had already divested it of its branches. Its gracefully spreading top was a perfect wreck on the hillside as if it had been made of glass, and the tender cones of one year's growth upon its summit appealed in vain and too late to the mercy of the chopper. Already he has measured it with his axe, and marked off the mill-logs it will make. And the space it occupied in upper air is vacant for the next two centuries. It is lumber. He has laid waste the air. When the fish hawk in the spring revisits the banks of the Musketaquid, he will circle in vain to find his accustomed perch, and the hen-hawk will mourn for the pines lofty enough to protect her brood. A plant which it has taken two centuries to perfect, rising by slow stages into the heavens, has this afternoon ceased to exist. Its sapling top had expanded to this January thaw as the forerunner of summers to come. Why does not the village bell sound a knell? I hear no knell tolled. I see no procession of mourners in the streets, or the woodland aisles. The squirrel has leaped to another tree; the hawk has circled further off, and has now settled upon a new eyrie, but the woodman is preparing [to] lay his axe at the root of that also." -Henry David Thoreau
"Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere. We are caught in an inescapable network of mutuality tied in a single garment of destiny. Whatever affects one directly affects all indirectly." -Henry David Thoreau
"The price of anything is the amount of life you exchange for it." -Henry David Thoreau
"God is alone,-but the devil, he is far from being alone; he sees a great deal of company; he is legion." -Henry David Thoreau
"For it matters not how small the beginning may seem to be: what is once done well is done forever." -Henry David Thoreau
"When it is time to die, let us not discover that we never lived." -Henry David Thoreau
"Every sunset which I witness inspires me with the desire to go to a west as distant and as fair as that into which the Sun goes down. He appears to migrate westward daily and tempt us to follow him. He is the Great Western Pioneer whom the nations follow. We dream all night of those mountain ridges in the horizon, though they may be of vapor only, which were last gilded by his rays." -Henry David Thoreau
"There are some who complain most energetically and inconsolably of any, because they are, as they say, doing their duty. I also have in my mind that seemingly wealthy, but most terribly impoverished class of all, who have accumulated dross, but know not how to use it, or get rid of it, and thus have forged their own golden or silver fetters." -Henry David Thoreau
"If I knew for a certainty that a man was coming to my house with the conscious design of doing me good, I should run for my life." -Henry David Thoreau
"You must converse much with the field and the woods if you would imbibe such health into your mind and spirit as you covet for your body" -Henry David Thoreau
"However mean your life is, meet it and live it; do not shun it and call it hard names. It is not so bad as you are. It looks poorest when you are richest. The fault-finder will find faults even in paradise." -Henry David Thoreau
"A sentence should be read as if its author, had he held a plough instead of a pen, could have drawn a furrow deep and straight to the end." -Henry David Thoreau
"Truth strikes us from behind and in the dark, as well as from before and in broad daylight." -Henry David Thoreau
"The tops of mountains are among the unfinished parts of the globe, whither it is a slight insult to the gods to climb and pry into their secrets, and try their effect on our humanity. Only daring and insolent men, perchance, go there." -Henry David Thoreau
"A foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of feeble minds" -Henry David Thoreau
"I love a broad margin to my life." -Henry David Thoreau
"Be it life or death, we crave only reality. If we are really dying, let us hear the rattle in our throats and feel the cold in the extremities; if we are alive, let us go about our business." -Henry David Thoreau
"Some of you, we all know, are poor, find it hard to live, are sometimes, as it were, gasping for breath. I have no doubt that some of you who read this book are unable to pay for all the dinners which you have actually eaten, or for the coats and shoes which are fast wearing or are already worn out, and have come to this page to spend borrowed or stolen time, robbing your creditors of an hour. It is very evident what mean and sneaking lives many of you live, for my sight has been whetted by experience; always on the limits, trying to get into business and trying to get out of debt, a very ancient slough, called by the Latins aes alienum, another's brass, for some of their coins were made of brass; still living, and dying, and buried by this other's brass; always promising to pay, promising to pay, tomorrow, and dying today, insolvent; seeking to curry favor, to get custom, by how many modes, only not state-prison offences; lying, flattering, voting, contracting yourselves into a nutshell of civility or dilating into an atmosphere of thin and vaporous generosity, that you may persuade your neighbor to let you make his shoes, or his hat, or his coat, or his carriage, or import his groceries for him; making yourselves sick, that you may lay up something against a sick day, something to be tucked away in an old chest, or in a stocking behind the plastering, or, more safely, in the brick bank; no matter where, no matter how much or how little." -Henry David Thoreau
"I think that there is nothing, not even crime, more opposed to poetry, to philosophy, to life itself, than this incessant business." -Henry David Thoreau
"None can be an impartial or wise observer of human life but from the vantage ground of what we should call voluntary poverty." -Henry David Thoreau
"Under a goverment which imprisons any unjustly, the true place for a just man is also a prison" -Henry David Thoreau
"The walking of which I speak has nothing in it akin to taking exercise, as it is called, as the sick take medicine at stated hours …but it is itself the enterprise and adventure of the day." -Henry David Thoreau
"How many a man has dated a new era in his life from the reading of a book. The book exists for us perchance which will explain our miracles and reveal new ones. The at present unutterable things we may find somewhere uttered." -Henry David Thoreau
"I am sorry to think that you do not get a man's most effective criticism until you provoke him. Severe truth is expressed with some bitterness." -Henry David Thoreau
"No man ever followed his genius till it misled him. Though the result were bodily weakness, yet perhaps no one can say that the consequences were to be regretted, for these were a life in conformity to higher principles. If the day and the night are such that you greet them with joy, and life emits a fragrance like flowers and sweet-scented herbs, is more elastic, more starry, more immortal,--that is your success. All nature is your congratulation, and you have cause momentarily to bless yourself. The greatest gains and values are farthest from being appreciated. We easily come to doubt if they exist. We soon forget them. They are the highest reality... The true harvest of my daily life is somewhat as intangible and indescribable as the tints of morning or evening. It is a little star-dust caught, a segment of the rainbow which I have clutched." -Henry David Thoreau
"To be awake is to be alive." -Henry David Thoreau
"We have become the tool of our tools." -Henry David Thoreau
"I think that we should be men first, and subjects afterward. It is not desirable to cultivate a respect for the law, so much as for the right. The only obligation which I have a right to assume is to do at any time what I think right. It is truly enough said that a corporation has no conscience; but a corporation of conscientious men is a corporation with a conscience." -Henry David Thoreau
"As for the Pyramids, there is nothing to wonder at in them so much as the fact that so many men could be found degraded enough to spend their lives constructing a tomb for some ambitious booby, whom it would have been wiser and manlier to have drowned in the Nile, and then given his body to the dogs." -Henry David Thoreau
"If a man walk in the woods for love of them half of each day, he is in danger of being regarded as a loafer; but if he spends his whole day as a speculator, shearing off those woods and making earth bald before her time, he is esteemed an industrious and enterprising citizen." -Henry David Thoreau
"There are nowadays professors of philosophy, but not philosophers. Yet it is admirable to profess because it was once admirable to live. To be a philosopher is not merely to have subtle thoughts, nor even to found a school, but so to love wisdom as to live according to its dictates, a life of simplicity, independence, magnanimity, and trust. It is to solve some of the problems of life, not only theoretically, but practically. The success of great scholars and thinkers is commonly a courtier-like success, not kingly, not manly." -Henry David Thoreau
"The ways by which you may get money almost without exception lead downward. To have done anything by which you earned money  is to have been truly idle or worse. If the laborer gets no more than the wages which his employer pays him, he is cheated, he cheats himself. If you would get money as a writer or lecturer, you must be popular, which is to go down perpendicularly. Those services which the community will most readily pay for it is most disagreeable to render. You are paid for being something less than a man. The State does not commonly reward a genius any more wisely. Even the poet laureate would rather not have to celebrate the accidents of royalty. He must be bribed with a pipe of wine; and perhaps another poet is called away from his muse to gauge that very pipe." -Henry David Thoreau
"So we saunter toward the Holy Land, till one day the sun shall shine more brightly than ever he has done, shall perchance shine into our minds and hearts, and light up our whole lives with a great awakening light, as warm and serene and golden as on a bankside in autumn." -Henry David Thoreau
"Is a democracy, such as we know it, the last improvement possible in government? Is it not possible to take a step further towards recognizing and organizing the rights of man?" -Henry David Thoreau
"In books, that which is most generally interesting is what comes home to the most cherished private experience of the greatest number. It is not the book of him who has travelled the farthest over the surface of the globe, but of him who has lived the deepest and been the most at home." -Henry David Thoreau
"Our houses are such unwieldy property that we are often imprisoned rather than housed in them." -Henry David Thoreau
"A very few, as heroes, patriots, martyrs, reformers in the great sense, and men, serve the State with their consciences also, and so necessarily resist it for the most part; and they are commonly treated by it as enemies." -Henry David Thoreau
"I ask for, not at once no government, but at once a better government." -Henry David Thoreau
"If any think that their influence would be lost there, and their voices no longer afflict the ear of the State, that they would not be as an enemy within its walls, they do not know how much truth is stronger than errors, nor how much more eloquently and effectively he can combat injustice who has experienced a little in his own person. Cast your whole vote, not a strip of paper merely, but your whole influence." -Henry David Thoreau
"O how I laugh when I think of my vague indefinite riches. No run on my bank can drain it, for my wealth is not possession but enjoyment. " -Henry David Thoreau
"Pursue, keep up with, circle round and round your life, as a dog does his master's chaise. Do what you love. Know your own bone; gnaw at it, bury it, unearth it, and gnaw it still." -Henry David Thoreau
"One day when I went out to my wood-pile, or rather my pile of stumps, I observed two large ants, the one red, the other much larger, nearly half an inch long, and black, fiercely contending with one another. Having once got hold they never let go, but struggled and wrestled and rolled on the chips incessantly. Looking farther, I was surprised to find that the chips were covered with such combatants, that it was not a duellum, but a bellum, a war between two races of ants, the red always pitted against the black, and frequently two red ones to one black. The legions of these Myrmidons covered all the hills and vales in my wood-yard, and the ground was already strewn with the dead and dying, both red and black. It was the only battle which I have ever witnessed, the only battle-field I ever trod while the battle was raging; internecine war; the red republicans on the one hand, and the black imperialists on the other. On every side they were engaged in deadly combat, yet without any noise that I could hear, and human soldiers never fought so resolutely." -Henry David Thoreau
"I turned my face more exclusively than ever to the woods, where I was better known." -Henry David Thoreau
"Give me for my friends and neighbors wild men, not tame ones. The wildness of the savage is but a faint symbol of the awful ferity with which good men and lovers meet." -Henry David Thoreau
"It's too late to be studying Hebrew; it's more important to understand even the slang of today." -Henry David Thoreau
"To affect the quality of the day - that is the highest of the arts." -Henry David Thoreau
"Knowledge does not come to us by details, but in flashes of light from heaven." -Henry David Thoreau
"I saw to what extent the people among whom I lived could be trusted as good neighbors and friends; that their friendship was for summer weather only; that they did not greatly propose to do right; that they were a distinct race from me by their prejudices and superstitions," -Henry David Thoreau
"What demon possessed me that I behaved so well? You may say the wisest thing you can old man, -- you who have lived seventy years, not without honor of a kind,– I hear an irresistible voice which invites me away from all that." -Henry David Thoreau
"In what concerns you much, do not think that you have companions: know that you are alone in the world. " -Henry David Thoreau
"My enemies are worms, cool days, and most of all woodchucks." -Henry David Thoreau
"Silence is the communing of a conscious soul with itself." -Henry David Thoreau
"Men say they know many things;But lo! they have taken wings, --The arts and sciences,And a thousand appliances;The wind that blowsIs all that any body knows" -Henry David Thoreau
"Flint's pond! Such is the poverty of our nomenclature. What right had the unclean and stupid farmer, whose farm abutted on this sky water, whose shores he has ruthlessly laid bare, to give his name to it? Some skin-flint, who loved better the reflecting surface of a dollar, or a bright cent, in which he could see his own brazen face; who regarded even the wild ducks which settled in it as trespassers; his fingers grown into crooked and bony talons from the long habit of grasping harpy-like; -- so it is not named for me. I go not there to see him nor to hear of him; who never saw it, who never bathed in it, who never loved it, who never protected it, who never spoke a good word for it, nor thanked God that He had made it. Rather let it be named from the fishes that swim in it, the wild fowl or quadrupeds which frequent it, the wild flowers which grow by its shores, or some wild man or child the thread of whose history is interwoven with its own; not from him who could show no title to it but the deed which a like-minded neighbor or legislature gave him who thought only of its money value; whose presence perchance cursed -- him all the shores; who exhausted the land around it, and would fain have exhausted the waters within it; who regretted only that it was not English hay or cranberry meadow -- there was nothing to redeem it, forsooth, in his eyes -- and would have drained and sold it for the mud at its bottom. It did not turn his mill, and it was no privilege to him to behold it. I respect not his labors, his farm where everything has its price, who would carry the landscape, who would carry his God, to market, if he could get anything for him; who goes to market for his god as it is; on whose farm nothing grows free, whose fields bear no crops, whose meadows no flowers, whose trees no fruits, but dollars; who loves not the beauty of his fruits, whose fruits are not ripe for him till they are turned to dollars. Give me the poverty that enjoys true wealth." -Henry David Thoreau
"Every man is tasked to make his life, even in its details, worthy of the contemplation of his most elevated and critical hour." -Henry David Thoreau
"We can never have enough of nature. We must be refreshed by the sight of inexhaustible vigor, vast and titanic features, the sea-cost with its wrecks, the wilderness with its living and its decaying trees, the thunder-cloud, and the rain which lasts three weeks and produces freshets. We need to witness our own limits transgressed, and some life pasturing freely where we never wander." -Henry David Thoreau
"The fate of the country... does not depend on what kind of paper you drop into the ballot-box once a year, but on what kind of man you drop from your chamber into the street every morning." -Henry David Thoreau
"Hope and the future for me are not in lawns and cultivated fields, not in towns and cities, but in the impervious and quaking swamps." -Henry David Thoreau
"Rather than love, than money, than fame, give me truth. I sat at a table where were rich food and wine in abundance, an obsequious attendance, but sincerity and truth were not; and I went away hungry from the inhospitable board. The hospitality was as cold as the ices." -Henry David Thoreau
"Truths and roses have thorns about them." -Henry David Thoreau
"Autumn came, with wind and gold." -Henry David Thoreau
"There is no odor so bad as that which arises from goodness tainted." -Henry David Thoreau
"I am too high born to be propertied, To be a second at control, Or useful serving-man and instrument To any sovereign state throughout the world." -Henry David Thoreau
"I hear of a convention to be held at Baltimore, or elsewhere, for the selection of a candidate for the Presidency, made up chiefly of editors, and men who are politicians by profession; but I think, what is it to any independent, intellegent, and respectable man what decision they may come to? Shall we not have the advantage of his wisdom and honesty, nevertheless? Can we not count upon some independent votes? Are there not many individuals in the country who do not attend conventions? But no: I find that the respectable man, so called, has immediately drifted from his position, and despairs of his country, when his country has more reason to despair of him. He forthwith adopts one of the candidates thus selected as his only AVAILABLE one, thus proving that he is himself AVAILABLE for any purposes of the demagogue. His vote is of no more worth than that of any unprincipled foreigner or hireling native, who may have been bought." -Henry David Thoreau
"I desire that there may be as many different persons in the world as possible; but I would have each one be very careful to find out and pursue his own way, and not his father's or his mother's or his neighbor's instead. The youth may build or plant or sail, only let him not be hindered from doing that which he tells me he would like to do." -Henry David Thoreau
"The government itself, which is only the mode which the people have chosen to execute their will, is equally liable to be abused and perverted before the people can act through it." -Henry David Thoreau
"The only obligation which I have a right to assume is to do at any time what I think right." -Henry David Thoreau
"Dreams are the touchstones of our characters. We are scarcely less afflicted when we remember some unworthiness in our conduct in a dream, than if it had been actual, and the intensity of our grief, which is our atonement, measures inversely the degree by which this is separated from an actual unworthiness. For in dreams we but act a part which must have been learned and rehearsed in our waking hours, and no doubt could discover some waking consent thereto. If this meanness has not its foundation in us, why are we grieved at it?" -Henry David Thoreau
"Here is life, an experiment to a great extent untried by me; but it does not avail me that they have tried it." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is not for a man to put himself in such an attitude to society, but to maintain himself in whatever attitude he find himself through obedience to the laws of his being, which will never be one of opposition to a just government, if he should chance to meet with such." -Henry David Thoreau
"Could a greater miracle take place than for us to look through each other's eyes for an instant? We should live in all the ages of the world in an hour; ay, in all the worlds of the ages." -Henry David Thoreau
"All this worldly wisdom was once the unamiable heresy of some wise man." -Henry David Thoreau
"There will never be a really free and enlightened State until the State comes to recognize the individual as a higher and independent power, from which all its own power and authority are derived, and treats him accordingly. I" -Henry David Thoreau
"I went to the woods because I wished to live deliberately, to front only the essential facts of life, and see if I could not learn what it had to teach, and not, when I came to die, discover that I had not lived. I did not wish to live what was not life, living is so dear; nor did I wish to practice resignation, unless it was quite necessary. I wanted to live deep and suck out all the marrow of life, to live so sturdily and Spartan-like as to put to rout all that was not life, to cut a broad swath and shave close, to drive life into a corner, and reduce it to its lowest terms, and, if it proved to be mean, why then to get the whole and genuine meanness of it, and publish its meanness to the world; or if it were sublime, to know it by experience, and be able to give a true account of it in my next excursion." -Henry David Thoreau
"To be alone was something unpleasant. But I was at the same time conscious of a slight insanity in my mood, and seemed to foresee my recovery." -Henry David Thoreau
"A government which deliberately enacts injustice, and persists in it, will at length ever become the laughing-stock of the world." -Henry David Thoreau
"I find it wholesome to be alone in the greater part of the time. To be in company, even with the best, is soon wearisome and dissipating. I love to be alone. i never found the companion that was so companionable as solitude. We are for the most part more lonely when we go abroad among men then when we stay in our chambers. A man thinking or working is always alone, let him be where he will. Solitude is not measured by the miles of space that intervene between a man and his fellows. The really diligent student in one of the crowded hives of Cambridge College is as solitary as a dervis in the desert. The farmer can work alone in the field or the woods all day, hoeing or chopping and not feel lonesome, because he is employed; but when he comes home at night he cannot sit down in a room alone, at the mercy of his thoughts, but must be where he can 'see the folks,' and recreate, and as he thinks remunerate, himself for his day's solitude; and hence he wonders how the student can sit alone in the house all night and most of the day without ennui and 'the blues;' but he does not realize that the student, though in the house, is still at work in his field, and chopping in his woods, as the farmer in his, and in turn seeks the same recreation and society that the latter does, though it may be a more condensed form of it." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is not all books that are as dull as their readers." -Henry David Thoreau
"What is most of our boasted so-called knowledge but a conceit that we know something, which robs us of the advantage of our actual ignorance?" -Henry David Thoreau
"SAUNTERING, which word is beautifully derived 'from idle people who roved about the country, in the Middle Ages, and asked charity, under pretense of going a la Sainte Terre,' to the Holy Land, till the children exclaimed, 'There goes a Sainte-Terrer,' a Saunterer, a Holy-Lander." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is not all books that are as dull as their readers. There are probably words addressed to our condition exactly, which, if we could really hear and understand, would be more salutary than the morning or the spring to our lives, and possibly put a new aspect on the face of things for us. How many a man has dated a new era in his life from the reading of a book. The book exists for us perchance which will explain our miracles and reveal new ones. The at present unutterable things we may find somewhere uttered. These same questions that disturb and puzzle and confound us have in their turn occurred to all the wise men; not one has been omitted; and each has answered them, according to his ability, by his words and his life." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is a surprising and memorable, as well as valuable experience, to be lost in the woods any time. Often in a snow storm, even by day, one will come out upon a well-known road and yet find it impossible to tell which way leads to the village. Though he knows that he has travelled it a thousand times, he cannot recognize a feature in it, but it is as strange to him as if it were a road in Siberia. By night, of course, the perplexity is infinitely greater. In our most trivial walks, we are constantly, though unconsciously, steering like pilots by certain well-known beacons and head-lands, and if we go beyond our usual course we still carry in our minds the bearing of some neighboring cape; and not till we are completely lost, or turned round, – for a man lost, – do we appreciate the vastness and strangeness of Nature. Every man has to learn the points of compass again as often as he awakes, whether from sleep or any abstraction. Not till we are lost, in other words, not till we have lost the world, do we begin to find ourselves, and realize where we are and the infinite extent of our relations." -Henry David Thoreau
"Let us spend one day as deliberately as Nature, and not be thrown off the track by every nutshell and mosquito's wing that falls on the rails." -Henry David Thoreau
"Nations are possessed with an insane ambition to perpetuate the memory of themselves by the amount of hammered stone they leave. What if equal pains were taken to smooth and polish their manners? One piece of good sense would be more memorable than a monument as high as the moon." -Henry David Thoreau
"While civilization has been improving our houses, it has not equally improved the men who inhabit them. It has created palaces, but it was not so easy to create noblemen and kings." -Henry David Thoreau
"In eternity there is indeed something true and sublime. But all these times and places and occasions are now and here. God himself culminates in the present moment and will never be more divine in the lapse of the ages. Time is but a stream I go a-fishing in. I drink at it, but when I drink I see the sandy bottom and detect how shallow it is. Its thin current slides away but eternity remains." -Henry David Thoreau
"Perhaps we should never procure a new suit, however ragged or dirty the old, until we have so conducted or enterprised or sailed in some way, that we feel like new men in the old, and that to retain it would be like keeping new wine in old bottles." -Henry David Thoreau
"The universe constantly and obediently answers to our conceptions; whether we travel fast or slow, the track is laid for us. Let us spend our lives in conceiving then. The poet or the artist never yet had so fair and noble a design but some of his posterity at least could accomplish it." -Henry David Thoreau
"Read your fate, see what is before you, and walk on into futurity." -Henry David Thoreau
"Life consists with wildness. The most alive is the wildest. Not yet subdued to man, its presence refreshes him." -Henry David Thoreau
"Why level downward to our dullest perception always, and praise that as common sense? The commonest sense is the sense of men asleep, which they express by snoring." -Henry David Thoreau
"Let me live where I will, on this side is the city, on that the wilderness, and ever I am leaving the city more and more, and withdrawing into the wilderness." -Henry David Thoreau
"The greatest gains and values are farthest from being appreciated. We easily come to doubt if they exist. We soon forget them. They are the highest reality. Perhaps the facts most astounding and most real are never communicated by man to man. The true harvest of my daily life is somewhat as intangible and indescribable as the tints of morning or evening. It is a little star-dust caught, a segment of the rainbow which I have clutched." -Henry David Thoreau
"The mass of men serve the state thus, not as men mainly, but as machines, with their bodies" -Henry David Thoreau
"Commonly men will only be brave as their fathers were brave, or timid." -Henry David Thoreau
"At present, in this vicinity, the best part of the land is not private property; the landscape is not owned, and the walker enjoys comparative freedom. But possibly the day will come when it will be partitioned off into so-called pleasure-grounds, in which a few will take a narrow and exclusive pleasure only,--when fences shall be multiplied, and man-traps and other engines invented to confine men to the  road, and walking over the surface of God's earth shall be construed to mean trespassing on some gentleman's grounds. To enjoy a thing exclusively is commonly to exclude yourself from the true enjoyment of it. Let us improve our opportunities, then, before the evil days come." -Henry David Thoreau
"The sea-shore is a sort of neutral ground, a most advantageous point from which to contemplate this world." -Henry David Thoreau
"So thoroughly and sincerely are we compelled to live, reverencing our life, and denying the possibility of change. This is the only way, we say; but there are as many ways as there can be drawn radii from one centre." -Henry David Thoreau
"A man receives only what he is ready to receive, whether physically or intellectually or morally, as animals conceive at certain seasons their kind only. We hear and apprehend only what we already half know. If there is something which does not concern me, which is out of my line, which by experience or by genius my attention is not drawn to, however novel and remarkable it may be, if it is spoken, we hear it not, if it is written, we read it not, or if we read it, it does not detain us. Every man thus tracks himself through life, in all his hearing and reading and observation and traveling. His observations make a chain. The phenomenon or fact that cannot in any wise be linked with the rest which he has observed, he does not observe. By and by we may be ready to receive what we cannot receive now. I find, for example, in Aristotle some thing about the spawning, etc., of the pout and perch, because I know something about it already and have my attention aroused; but I do not discover till very late that he has made other equally important observations on the spawning of other fishes, because I am not interested in those fishes." -Henry David Thoreau
"Never look back unless you are planning to go that way" -Henry David Thoreau
"Rise free from care before the dawn and seek new adventures.Let noon find you at other lakes,And night find you everywhere at home...Grow wild according to thy nature." -Henry David Thoreau
"Most men lead lives of quiet desperation and go to the grave with the song still in them. Live your beliefs and you can turn the world around. Nothing can be more useful to a man than the determination not to be hurried." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is pleasant to walk over the beds of these fresh, crisp, and rustling leaves. How beautifully they go to their graves! how gently lay themselves down and turn to mould!--painted of a thousand hues, and fit to make the beds of us living. So they troop to their last resting-place, light and frisky. They put on no weeds, but merrily they go scampering over the earth, selecting the spot, choosing a lot, ordering no iron fence, whispering all through the woods about it,--some choosing the spot where the bodies of men are mouldering beneath, and meeting them half-way." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is remarkable how closely the history of the apple tree is connected with that of man." -Henry David Thoreau
"A wise man will not leave the right to the mercy of chance, nor wish it to prevail through the power of the majority." -Henry David Thoreau
"I am convinced, both by faith and experience, that to maintain one's self on this earth is not a hardship but a passtime, if we live simply and wisely" -Henry David Thoreau
"Many men go fishing all of their lives without knowing that it is not fish they are after." -Henry David Thoreau
"I love to be alone. I never found the companion that was so companionable as solitude." -Henry David Thoreau
"There is an incessant influx of novelty into the world, and yet we tolerate incredible dulness. I need only suggest what kind of sermons are still listened to in the most enlightened countries. There are such words as joy and sorrow, but they are only the burden of a psalm, sung with a nasal twang, while we believe in the ordinary and mean." -Henry David Thoreau
"I believe,--'That government is best which governs not at all;' and when men are prepared for it, that will be the kind of government which they will have." -Henry David Thoreau
"As the least drop of wine tinges the whole goblet, so the least particle of truth colors our whole life. It is never isolated, or simply added as treasure to our stock. When any real progress is made, we unlearn and learn anew what we thought we knew before." -Henry David Thoreau
"The virtues of a superior man are like the wind; the virtues of a common man are like the grass; the grass, when the wind passes over it, bends." -Henry David Thoreau
"Be it life or death, we crave only reality. If we are really dying, let us hear the rattle in our throats and feel cold in the extremities; if we are alive, let us go about our business. Time is but the stream I go a-fishing in. I drink at it; but while I drink I see the sandy bottom and detect how shallow it is. Its thin current slides away, but eternity remains. I would drink deeper; fish in the sky, whose bottom is pebbly with stars. I cannot count one. I know not the first letter of the alphabet. I have always been regretting that I was not as wise as the day I was born. The intellect is a cleaver; it discerns and rifts its way into the secret of things." -Henry David Thoreau
"We know but few man, a great many coats and breeches." -Henry David Thoreau
"Shall a man go and hang himself because he belongs to the race of pygmies, and not be the biggest pygmie that he can? Let everyone mind his own business, and endeavor to be what he was made" -Henry David Thoreau
"Who shall say what prospect life offers to another? Coulda greater miracle take place than for us to look through each other'seyes for an instant?" -Henry David Thoreau
"The lakes are something which you are unprepared for; they lie up so high, exposed to the light, and the forest is diminished to a fine fringe on their edges, with here and there a blue mountain, like amethyst jewels set around some jewel of the first water, - so anterior, so superior, to all the changes that are to take place on their shores, even now civil and refined, and fair as they can ever be." -Henry David Thoreau
"But, wherever a man goes, men will pursue and paw him with their dirty institutions, and, if they can, constrain him to belong to their desperate odd-fellow society. It is true, I might have resisted forcibly with more or less effect, might have run 'amok' against society; but I preferred that society should run 'amok' against me, it being the desperate party." -Henry David Thoreau
"Distrust any enterprise that requires new clothes." -Henry David Thoreau
"My life has been the poem I could have writBut I could not both live and utter it." -Henry David Thoreau
"As the sun went down, I saw a solitary boatman disporting on the smooth lake. The falling dews seemed to strain and purify the air, and I was soothed with an infinite stillness. I got the world, as it were, by the nape of the neck, and held it under in the tide of its own events, till it was drowned, and then I let it go down stream like a dead dog. Vast hollow chambers of silence stretched away on every side, and my being expanded in proportion, and filled them. Then first could I appreciate sound, and find it musical." -Henry David Thoreau
"There are many fine things we cannot say if we have to shout." -Henry David Thoreau
"Our legislators have not yet learned the comparative value of free-trade and of freedom, of union, and of rectitude, to a nation. They have no genius or talent for comparatively humble questions of taxation and finance, commerce and manufacturers and agriculture. Nuestros legisladores no han aprendido todavía el valor comparativo del libre cambio y la libertad, la unión y la rectitud hacia la nación. No tienen genio ni talento para hacerse preguntas humildes sobre impuestos y finanzas, comercio, manufactura y agricultura." -Henry David Thoreau
"Let us spend one day as deliberately as Nature, and not be thrown off the track by every nutshell and mosquito's wing that falls on the rails. Let us rise early and fast, or break fast, gently and without perturbation; let company come and let company go, let the bells ring and the children cry, -- determined to make a day of it. Why should we knock under and go with the stream? Let us not be upset and overwhelmed in that terrible rapid and whirlpool called a dinner, situated in the meridian shallows. Weather this danger and you are safe, for the rest of the way is down hill. With unrelaxed nerves, with morning vigor, sail by it, looking another way, tied to the mast like Ulysses. If the engine whistles, let it whistle till it is hoarse for its pains. If the bell rings, why should we run? We will consider what kind of music they are like. Let us settle ourselves, and work and wedge our feet downward through the mud and slush of opinion, and prejudice, and tradition, and delusion, and appearance, that alluvion which covers the globe, through Paris and London, through New York and Boston and Concord, through church and state, through poetry and philosophy and religion, till we come to a hard bottom and rocks in place, which we can call reality, and say, This is, and no mistake; and then begin, having a point d'appui, below freshet and frost and fire, a place where you might found a wall or a state, or set a lamp-post safely, or perhaps a gauge, not a Nilometer, but a Realometer, that future ages might know how deep a freshet of shams and appearances had gathered from time to time. If you stand right fronting and face to face to a fact, you will see the sun glimmer on both its surfaces, as if it were a cimeter, and feel its sweet edge dividing you through the heart and marrow, and so you will happily conclude your mortal career. Be it life or death, we crave only reality. If we are really dying, let us hear the rattle in our throats and feel cold in the extremities; if we are alive, let us go about our business.Time is but the stream I go a-fishing in. I drink at it; but while I drink I see the sandy bottom and detect how shallow it is. Its thin current slides away, but eternity remains. I would drink deeper; fish in the sky, whose bottom is pebbly with stars. I cannot count one. I know not the first letter of the alphabet. I have always been regretting that I was not as wise as the day I was born. The intellect is a cleaver; it discerns and rifts its way into the secret of things. I do not wish to be any more busy with my hands than is necessary. My head is hands and feet. I feel all my best faculties concentrated in it. My instinct tells me that my head is an organ for burrowing, as some creatures use their snout and fore-paws, and with it I would mine and burrow my way through these hills. I think that the richest vein is somewhere hereabouts; so by the divining rod and thin rising vapors I judge; and here I will begin to mine." -Henry David Thoreau
"Public opinion is a weak tyrant compared with our own private opinion. What a man thinks of himself, that it is which determines, or rather indicates, his fate.Viešoji nuomonė - ne toks baisus tironas kaip savoji. Tai, ką žmogus galvoja apie save, kaip tik ir lemia arba greičiau rodo jo likimą." -Henry David Thoreau
"Just so hollow and ineffectual, for the most part, is our ordinary conversation. Surface meets surface. When our life ceases to be inward and private, conversation degenerates into mere gossip. We rarely meet a man who can tell us any news which he has not read in a newspaper, or been told by his neighbor; and, for the most part, the only difference between us and our fellow is, that he has seen the newspaper, or been out to tea, and we have not. In proportion as our inward life fails, we go more constantly and desperately to the post-office. You may depend on it, that the poor fellow who walks away with the greatest number of letters, proud of his extensive correspondence, has not heard from himself this long while.I do not know but it is too much to read one newspaper a week. I have tried it recently, and for so long it seems to me that I have not dwelt in my native region. The sun, the clouds, the snow, the trees say not so much to me. You cannot serve two masters. It requires more than a day's devotion to know and to possess the wealth of a day.We may well be ashamed to tell what things we have read or heard in our day. I do not know why my news should be so trivial,--considering what one's dreams and expectations are, why the developments should be so paltry. The news we hear, for the most part, is not news to our genius. It is the stalest repetition." -Henry David Thoreau
"I see young men, my townsmen, whose misfortune it is to have inherited farms, houses, barns, cattle, and farming tools; for these are more easily acquired than got rid of. Better if they had been born in the open pasture and suckled by a wolf, that they might have seen with clearer eyes what field they were called to labor in. Who made them serfs of the soil? Why should they eat their sixty acres, when man is condemned to eat only his peck of dirt? Why should they begin digging their graves as soon as they are born?" -Henry David Thoreau
"The best thing a man can do for his culture when he is rich is to endeavor to carry out those schemes which he entertained when he was poor." -Henry David Thoreau
"The mass of men serve the state thus, not as men mainly, but as machines, with their bodies. They are the standing army, and the militia, jailers, constables, posse comitatus, etc. In most cases there is no free exercise whatever of the judgement or of the moral sense; but they put themselves on a level with wood and earth and stones; and wooden men can perhaps be manufactured that will serve the purpose as well. Such command no more respect than men of straw or a lump of dirt. They have the same sort of worth only as horses and dogs. Yet such as these even are commonly esteemed good citizens. Others--as most legislators, politicians, lawyers, ministers, and office-holders--serve the state chiefly with their heads; and, as they rarely make any moral distinctions, they are as likely to serve the devil, without intending it, as God." -Henry David Thoreau
"Morning is when I'm awake, and there is dawn in me." -Henry David Thoreau
"How can a man be satisfied to entertain an opinion merely, and enjoy it?" -Henry David Thoreau
"Sell your clothes- keep your thoughts." -Henry David Thoreau
"If we were left solely to the wordy wit of legislators in Congress for our guidance, uncorrected by the seasonable experience and the effectual complaints of the people, America would not long retain her rank among the nations." -Henry David Thoreau
"See how he cowers and sneaks, how vaguely all the day he fears, not being immortal nor divine, but the slave and prisoner of his own opinion of himself, a fame won by his own deeds." -Henry David Thoreau
"To enjoy a thing exclusively is commonly to exlcude yourself from the true enjoyment of it." -Henry David Thoreau
"What is a course of history, or philosophy, or poetry, no matter how well selected, or the best society, or the most admirable routine of life, compared with the discipline of looking always at what is to be seen?" -Henry David Thoreau
"He is blessed who is assured that the animal is dying out in him every day by day, and the divine being established." -Henry David Thoreau
"Is a democracy, such as we know it, the last improvement possible in government?" -Henry David Thoreau
"We now no longer camp as for a night, but have settled down on earth and forgotten heaven" -Henry David Thoreau
"I have heard of a man lost in the woods and dying of famine and exhaustion at the foot of a tree, whose loneliness was relieved by the grotesque visions with which, owing to bodily weakness, his diseased imagination surrounded him, and which he believed to be real. So also, owing to bodily and mental health and strength, we may be continually cheered by a like but more normal and natural society, and come to know that we are never alone." -Henry David Thoreau
"We must learn to reawaken and keep ourselves awake, not by mechanical aids, but by an infinite expectation of the dawn, which does not forsake us in our soundest sleep." -Henry David Thoreau
"No humane being, past the thoughtless age of boyhood, will wantonly murder any creature, which holds its life by the same tenure that he does." -Henry David Thoreau
"I believe that men are generally still a little afraid of the dark, though the witches are all hung, and Christianity and candles have been introduced." -Henry David Thoreau
"Cape Cod is the bared and bended arm of Massachusetts. The shoulder is at Buzzard's Bay; the elbow at Cape Mallebarre; the wrist at Truro; and the sandy fist at Provincetown." -Henry David Thoreau
"There are thousand hacking at the branches of evil to one who is striking at the root." -Henry David Thoreau
"he rated it as a gain in coming to America, that here you could get tea, and coffee, and meat every day. But the only true America is that country where you are at liberty to pursue such a mode of life as may enable you to do without these, and where the state does not endeavor to compel you to sustain the slavery and war and other superfluous expenses which directly or indirectly result from the use of such things." -Henry David Thoreau
"I did not wish to live what was not life, living is so dear; nor did I wish to practise resignation, unless it was quite necessary. I wanted to live deep and suck out all the marrow of life, to live so sturdily and Spartan-like as to put to rout all that was not life, to cut a broad swath and shave close, to drive life into a corner, and reduce it to its lowest terms, and, if it proved to be mean, why then to get the whole and genuine meanness of it, and publish its meanness to the world; or if it were sublime, to know it by experience, and be able to give a true account of it in my next excursion. For most men, it appears to me, are in a strange uncertainty about it, whether it is of the devil or of God, and have somewhat hastily concluded that it is the chief end of man here to 'glorify God and enjoy him forever." -Henry David Thoreau
"There is a difference between eating and drinking for strength and from mere gluttony." -Henry David Thoreau
"Love is an attempt to change a piece of a dream-world into a reality." -Henry David Thoreau
"We should be blessed if we lived in the present always, and took advantage of every accident that befell us, like the grass which confesses the influence of the slightest dew that falls on it; and did not spend our time in atoning for the neglect of past opportunities, which we call doing our duty." -Henry David Thoreau
"Which is the best man to deal with,-he who knows nothing about a subject, and, what is extremely rare, knows that he knows nothing, or he who really knows something about it, but thinks that he knows all?" -Henry David Thoreau
"There can be no very black melancholy to him who lives in the midst of Nature and has his senses still." -Henry David Thoreau
"As for Doing-good...I have tried it fairly, and, strange as it may seem, am satisfied that it does not agree with my constitution." -Henry David Thoreau
"The stars are God's dreams, thoughts remembered in the silence of his night." -Henry David Thoreau
"The authority of government, even such as I am willing to submit to-- for I will cheerfully obey those who know and can do better than I, and in many things even those who neither know nor can do so well-- is still an impure one: to be strictly just, it must have the sanction and consent of the governed. It can have no pure right over my person and property but what I concede to it." -Henry David Thoreau
"I came into this world, not chiefly to make this a good place to live in, but to live in it, be it good or bad." -Henry David Thoreau
"The ways by which you may get your money almost without exception lead downward. To have done anything by which you earn money 'merely' is to be truly idle or worse. If the labourer gets no more than the wages which his employer pays him, he is cheated, he cheats himself.. If I should sell both my forenoons and afternoons to society, as most appear to do, I am sure that for me there would be nothing left worth living for.. You must get your living by loving." -Henry David Thoreau
"The earth I tread on is not a dead inert mass. It is a body--has a spirit--is organic--and fluid to the influence of its spirit--and to whatever particle of the spirit is in me" -Henry David Thoreau
"How many flutterings before they rest quietly in their graves! They that soared so loftily, how contentedly they return to dust again, and are laid low, resigned to lie and decay at the foot of the tree, and afford nourishment to new generations of their kind, as well as to flutter on high! They teach us how to die. One wonders if the time will ever come when men, with their boasted faith in immortality, will lie down as gracefully and as ripe,--with such an Indian-summer serenity will shed their bodies, as they do their hair and nails." -Henry David Thoreau
"When the heavens are obscured to us, and nothing noble or heroic appears, but we are oppressed by imperfection and shortcoming on all hands, we are apt to suck our thumbs and decry our fates. As if nothing were to be done in cloudy weather, or, if heaven were not accessible by the upper road, men would not find out a lower... There are two ways to victory, - to strive bravely, or to yield. How much pain the last will save we have not yet learned." -Henry David Thoreau
"We are all poor in respect to a thousand savage comforts, though surrounded by luxuries...for our houses are such unwieldy property that we are often imprisoned rather than housed in them." -Henry David Thoreau
"And now that we have returned to the desultory life of the plain, let us endeavor to import a little of that mountain grandeur into it. We will remember within what walls we lie, and understand that this level life too has its summit, and why from the mountain-top the deepest valleys have a tinge of blue; that there is elevation in every hour, as no part of the earth is so low that the heavens may not be seen from, and we have only to stand on the summit of our hour to command an uninterrupted horizon." -Henry David Thoreau
"I only know myself as a human entity; the scene, so to speak, of thoughts and affections; and I'm sensible of a certain doubleness by which I can stand as remote from myself as another. However intense my experience, I am conscious of the presence and criticism of a part of me, which, as it were, is not a part of me, but spectator, sharing no experience, but taking note of it; and that is no more I than it is you. When the play, it may be the tragedy, of life is over, the spectator goes his way. It was a kind of fiction, a work of the imagination only.." -Henry David Thoreau
"The life which men praise and regard as successful is but one kind. Why should we exaggerate any one kind at the expense of the others?" -Henry David Thoreau
"Be it life or death, we crave only reality." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is not all books that are as dull as their readers. There are probably words addressed to our condition exactly, which, if we could really hear and understand, would be more salutary than the morning or the spring to our lives, and possibly put a new aspect on the face of things for us. How many a man has dated a new era in his life from the reading of a book." -Henry David Thoreau
"God himself culminates in the present moment, and will never be more divine in the lapse of all the ages. And we are enabled to apprehend at all what is sublime and noble only by the perpetual instilling and drenching of the reality which surrounds us. The universe constantly and obediently answers to our conceptions; whether we travel fast or slow, the track is laid for us." -Henry David Thoreau
"A man thinking or working will always be alone, let him be where he will." -Henry David Thoreau
"If you are ready to leave father and mother, and brother and sister, and wife and child and friends, and never see them again--if you have paid your debts, and made your will, and settled all your affairs, and are a free man--then you are ready for a walk." -Henry David Thoreau
"government is best which governs least'; and I should like to see it acted up to more rapidly and systematically. Carried out, it finally amounts to this, which also I believe--'That government is best which governs not at all'; and when men are prepared for it, that will be the kind of government which they will have." -Henry David Thoreau
"Shams and delusions are esteemed for soundest truths, while reality is fabulous." -Henry David Thoreau
"Success usually comes to those who are too busy to be looking for it." -Henry David Thoreau
"In any weather, at any hour of the day or night, I have been anxious to improve the nick of time, and notch it on my stick too; to stand on the meeting of two eternities, the past and the future, which is precisely the present moment; to toe that line. You will pardon some obscurities, for there are more secrets in my trade than in most men's, and yet not voluntarily kept, but inseparable from its very nature." -Henry David Thoreau
"It's not enough to be busy; so are the ants. The question is: what are we busy about?" -Henry David Thoreau
"Our statistics are at fault: the population has been returned too large. How many men are there to a square thousand miles in this country? Hardly one." -Henry David Thoreau
"We live a short period of time in this world, but we live it according to the laws of eternal life." -Henry David Thoreau
"We cannot but pity the boy who has never fired a gun," -Henry David Thoreau
"You shall see rude and sturdy, experienced and wise men, keeping their castles, or teaming up their summer's wood, or chopping alone in the woods, men fuller of talk and rare adventure in the sun and wind and rain, than a chestnut is of meat; who were out not only in '75 and 1812, but have been out every day of their lives; greater men than Homer, or Chaucer, or Shakespeare, only they never got time to say so; they never took to the way of writing. Look at their fields, and imagine what they might write, if ever they should put pen to paper. Or what have they not written on the face of the earth already, clearing, and burning, and scratching, and harrowing, and plowing, and subsoiling, in and in, and out and out, and over and over, again and again, erasing what they had already written for want of parchment." -Henry David Thoreau
"Men and boys are learning all kinds of trades but how to make men of themselves. They learn to make houses; but they are not so well housed, they are not so contented in their houses, as the woodchucks in their holes. What is the use of a house if you haven't got a tolerable planet to put it on? -- If you cannot tolerate the planet that it is on? Grade the ground first. If a man believes and expects great things of himself, it makes no odds where you put him, or what you show him ... he will be surrounded by grandeur. He is in the condition of a healthy and hungry man, who says to himself, -- How sweet this crust is!" -Henry David Thoreau
"A single gentle rain makes the grass many shades greener. So our prospects brighten on the influx of better thoughts. We should be blessed if we lived in the present always, and took advantage of every accident that befell us, like the grass which confesses the influence of the slightest dew that falls on it; and did not spend our time in atoning for the neglect of past opportunities, which we call our duty. We loiter in winter while it is already spring. In a pleasant spring morning all men's sins are forgiven." -Henry David Thoreau
"Happiness is like a butterfly; the more you chase it, the more it will elude you, but if you turn your attention to other things, it will come and sit softly on your shoulders..." -Henry David Thoreau
"ابدأ بقراءة أفضل الكتب، وإلا لن تجد الفرصة لقراءتهم أبداً" -Henry David Thoreau
"The whole ground of human life seems to some to have been gone over bytheir predecessors, both the heights and the valleys, and all things tohave been cared for. According to Evelyn, 'the wise Solomon prescribedordinances for the very distances of trees; and the Roman prætors havedecided how often you may go into your neighbor's land to gather theacorns which fall on it without trespass, and what share belongs to thatneighbor.' Hippocrates has even left directions how we should cut ournails; that is, even with the ends of the fingers, neither shorter norlonger. Undoubtedly the very tedium and ennui which presume to haveexhausted the variety and the joys of life are as old as Adam. But man'scapacities have never been measured; nor are we to judge of what he cando by any precedents, so little has been tried. Whatever have been thyfailures hitherto, 'be not afflicted, my child, for who shall assign tothee what thou hast left undone?" -Henry David Thoreau
"It is an interesting question how far men would retain their relative rank if they were divested of their clothes." -Henry David Thoreau
"I was born upon thy bank, river,My blood flows in thy stream,And thou meanderest foreverAt the bottom of my dream." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is life near the bone where it is sweetest." -Henry David Thoreau
"Sometimes we are inclined to class those who are once-and-a-half witted with the half-witted, because we appreciate only a third part of their wit." -Henry David Thoreau
"Chastity is the flowering of man; and what are called Genius, Heroism, Holiness, and the like, are but various fruits which succeed it" -Henry David Thoreau
"the state never intentionally confronts a man's sense, intellectual or moral, but only his body, his senses. It is not armed with superior wit or honesty, but with superior physical strength. I was not born to be forced. I will breathe after my own fashion. Let us see who is the strongest." -Henry David Thoreau
"Nature is full of genius, full of the divinity; so that not a snowflake escapes its fashioning hand." -Henry David Thoreau
"While men believe in the infinite some ponds will be thought to be bottomless." -Henry David Thoreau
"Many men walk by day; few walk by night. It is a different season." -Henry David Thoreau
"There is no beginning too small." -Henry David Thoreau
"I have spent many an hour, when I was younger, floating over its surface as the zephyr willed, having paddled my boat to the middle, and lying on my back across the seats, in a summer forenoon, dreaming awake, until I was aroused by the boat touching the sand, and I arose to see what shore my fates had impelled me to; days when idleness was the most attractive and productive industry. Many a forenoon have I stolen away, preferring to spend thus the most valued part of the day; for I was rich, if not in money, in sunny hours and summer days, and spent them lavishly; nor do I regret that I did not waste more of them in the workshop or the teacher's desk. But since I left those shores the woodchoppers have still further laid them waste, and now for many a year there will be no more rambling through the aisles of the wood, with occasional vistas through which you see the water. My Muse may be excused if she is silent henceforth. How can you expect the birds to sing when their groves are cut down?" -Henry David Thoreau
"A lawyer's truth is not Truth. It is consistency, or consistent expediency" -Henry David Thoreau
"Let us... work and wedge our feet downward through the mud and slush of opinion, and prejudice, and tradition, and delusion, and appearance, that alluvion which covers the globe...till we come to a hard bottom and rocks in place, which we can call reality, and say, This is, and no mistake... " -Henry David Thoreau
"There is no odor so bad as that which arises from goodness tainted. It is human, it is divine, carrion. If I knew for a certainty that a man was coming to my house with the conscious design of doing me good, I should run for my life, as from that dry and parching wind of the African deserts called the simoom, which fills the mouth and nose and ears and eyes with dust till you are suffocated, for fear that I should get some of his good done to me, - some of its virus mingled with my blood. No, -in this case I would rather suffer evil the natural way." -Henry David Thoreau
"Some of my pleasantest hours were during the long rain-storms in the spring or fall, which confined me to the house for the afternoon as well as the forenoon, soothed by their ceaseless roar and pelting; when an early twilight ushered in a long evening in which many thoughts had time to take root and unfold themselves. In those driving northeast rains which tried the village houses so, when the maids stood ready with mop and pail in front entries to keep the deluge out, I sat behind my door in my little house, which was all entry, and thoroughly enjoyed its protection." -Henry David Thoreau
"There is in my nature, methinks, a singular yearning toward all wildness." -Henry David Thoreau
"The surface of the earth is soft and impressible by the feet of men ; and so with the paths which the mind travels. How worn and dusty, then, must be the highways of the world, how deep the ruts of tradition and conformity." -Henry David Thoreau
"A traveller! I love his title. A traveler is to be reverenced as such. His profession is the best symbol of our life. Going from–toward; it is the history of every one of us." -Henry David Thoreau
"My life is like a stroll upon the beach, as near to the ocean's edge as I can go." -Henry David Thoreau
"Whatever my own practice may be, I have no doubt that it is part of the destiny of the human race, in its gradual improvement, to leave off eating animals, as surely as the savage tribes have left off eating each other when they came in contact with the more civilized." -Henry David Thoreau
"I delight to come to my bearings,--not walk in procession with pomp and parade, in a conspicuous place, but to walk even with the Builder of the universe, if I may,--not to live in this restless, nervous, bustling, trivial Nineteenth Century, but stand or sit thoughtfully while it goes by. What are men celebrating? They are all on a committee of arrangements, and hourly expect a speech from somebody. God is only the president of the day, and Webster is his orator. I love to weigh, to settle, to gravitate toward that which most strongly and rightfully attracts me;--not hang by the beam of the scale and try to weigh less,--not suppose a case, but take the case that is" -Henry David Thoreau
"There were times when I could not afford to sacrifice the bloom of the present moment to any work, whether of the head or hands. I love a broad margin to my life. [...] They were not time subtracted from my life, but so much over and above my usual allowance. [...] This was sheer idleness to my fellow-townsmen, no doubt; but if the birds and flowers had tried me by their standard, I should not have been found wanting." -Henry David Thoreau
"How many a poor immortal soul have I met well-nigh crushed and smothered under its load, creeping down the road of life, pushing before it a barn seventy-five feet by forty, its Augean stables never cleansed, and one hundred acres of land, tillage, mowing, pasture, and wood-lot. The portionless, who struggle with no such unnecessary inherited encumbrances, find it labor enough to subdue and cultivate a few cubic feet of flesh." -Henry David Thoreau
"The only way to speak the truth is to speak lovingly." -Henry David Thoreau
"The poet writes the history of his own body." -Henry David Thoreau
"Think for yourself, or others will think for you without thinking of you." -Henry David Thoreau
"A lady once offered me a mat, but as I had no room to spare within the house, nor time to spare within or without to shake it, I declined it, preferring to wipe my feet on the sod before my door. It is best to avoid the beginnings of evil." -Henry David Thoreau
"When formerly I was looking about to see what I could do for a living... I thought often and seriously of picking huckleberries; that surely I could do." -Henry David Thoreau
"The gross feeder is a man in the larva state; and there are whole nations in that condition, nations without fancy or imagination, whose vast abdomens betray them." -Henry David Thoreau
"I believe that every man who has ever been earnest to preserve his higher or poetic faculties in the best condition has been particularly inclined to abstain from animal food, and from much food of any kind." -Henry David Thoreau
"...If one advances confidently in the direction of his dreams, and endeavors to live the life which he has imagined, he will meet with a success unexpected in common hours...If you have built castles in the air, your work need not be lost; that is where they should be. Now put the foundations under them." -Henry David Thoreau
"The objections which have been brought against a standing army, and they are many and weighty, and deserve to prevail, may also at last be brought against a standing government." -Henry David Thoreau
"No man ever stood the lower in my estimation for having a patch in his clothes... I sometimes try my acquaintances by such tests as this, -- who could wear a patch, or two extra seams only, over the knee? Most behave as if they believed that their prospects for life would be ruined if they should do it. It would be easier for them to hobble to town with a broken leg than with a broken pantaloon. Often if an accident happens to a gentleman's legs, they can be mended, but if a similar accident happens to the legs of his pantaloon's, there is no help for it." -Henry David Thoreau
"What does Africa -- what does the West stand for? Is not our own interior white on the chart? black though it may prove, like the coast, when discovered. Is it the source of the Nile, or the Niger, or the Mississippi, or a Northwest Passage around this continent, that we would find? Are these the problems which most concern mankind? Is Franklin the only man who is lost, that his wife should be so earnest to find him? Does Mr. Grinnell know where he himself is? Be rather the Mungo Park,the Lewis and Clark and Frobisher,of your own streams and oceans; explore your own higher latitudes -- with shiploads of preserved meats to support you, if they be necessary; and pile the empty cans sky-high for a sign. Were preserved meats invented to preserve meat merely? Nay, be a Columbus to whole new continents and worlds within you, opening new channels, not of trade, but of thought. Every man is the lord of a realm beside which the earthly empire of the Czar is but a petty state, a hummock left by the ice. Yet some can be patriotic who have no self-respect, and sacrifice the greater to the less. They love the soil which makes their graves, but have no sympathy with the spirit which may still animate their clay. Patriotism is a maggot in their heads.What was the meaning of that South-Sea Exploring Expedition,with all its parade and expense, but an indirect recognition of the fact that there are continents and seas in the moral world to which every man is an isthmus or an inlet, yet unexplored by him, but that it is easier to sail many thousand miles through cold and storm and cannibals, in a government ship, with five hundred men and boys to assist one, than it is to explore the private sea, the Atlantic and Pacific Ocean of one's being alone." -Henry David Thoreau
"Cowards suffer, heroes enjoy." -Henry David Thoreau
"Probably no country was ever ruled by so mean a class of tyrants as, with a few noble exceptions, are the editors of the periodical press in this country. And as they live and rule only by their servility, and appealing to the worst, and not the better nature of man, the people who read them are in the condition of the dog that returns to his vomit." -Henry David Thoreau
"A man's riches are based on what he can do without." -Henry David Thoreau
"The secret of achievement is to hold a picture of a successful outcome in the mind" -Henry David Thoreau
"To know that we know what we know, and that we do not know what we do not know, that is true knowledge." -Henry David Thoreau
"Philanthropy is. . . greatly overrated. A pain in the gut is not sympathy for the underprivileged, but the result of eating a green apple; the philanthropist gives to ease his own pain." -Henry David Thoreau
"The Vedas say, 'All intelligences awake with the morning.' Poetry and art, and the fairest and most memorable of the actions of men, date from such an hour. All poets and heroes, like Memnon, are the children of Aurora, and emit their music at sunrise." -Henry David Thoreau
"We cannot see anything until we are possessed with the idea of it, take it into our heads, - and then we can hardly see anything else." -Henry David Thoreau
"The fault-finder will find faults even in paradise." -Henry David Thoreau
"I believe that the mind can be permanently profaned by the habit of attending to trivial things." -Henry David Thoreau
"A man's ignorance sometimes is not only useful, but beautiful, while his knowledge, so called, is oftentimes worse than useless beside being ugly. Which is the best man to deal with, he who knows nothing about a subject, and what is extremely rare, knows that he knows nothing, -- or he who really knows something about it, but thinks that he knows all?" -Henry David Thoreau
"There will never be a really free and enlightened State until the State comes to recognize the individual as a higher and independent power, from which all its own power and authority are derived, and treats him accordingly." -Henry David Thoreau
"The sail, the play of its pulse so like our own lives: so thin and yet so full of life, so noiseless when it labors hardest, so noisy and impatient when least effective." -Henry David Thoreau
"the mission of men there seems to be,like so many busy demons,to drive the forest out of the country." -Henry David Thoreau
"The childish and savage taste of men and women for new patterns keeps how many shaking and squinting through kaleidoscopes that they may discover the particular figure which this generation requires to-day. The manufacturers have learned that this taste is merely whimsical. Of two patterns which differ only by a few threads more or less of a particular color, the one will be sold readily, the other lie on the shelf, though it frequently happens that after the lapse of a season the latter becomes the most fashionable. Comparatively, tattooing is not the hideous custom which it is called. It is not barbarous merely because the printing is skin-deep and unalterable." -Henry David Thoreau
"If I were confined to a corner of a garret all my days, like a spider, the world would be just as large to me while I had my thoughts about me." -Henry David Thoreau
"The aim of the laborer should be, not to get his living, to get 'a good job,' but to perform well a certain work; and, even in a pecuniary sense, it would be economy for a town to pay its laborers so well that they would not feel that they were working for low ends, as for a livelihood merely, but for scientific, or even moral ends. Do not hire a man who does your work for money, but him who does it for love of it." -Henry David Thoreau
"The impression made on a wise man is that of universal innocence. Poison is not poisonous after all, nor are any wounds fatal. Compassion is a very untenable ground. It must be expeditious. Its pleadings will not bear to be stereotyped." -Henry David Thoreau
"That man who does not believe that each day contains an earlier, more sacred, and auroral hour than he has yet profaned, has despaired of life, and is pursuing a descending and darkening way." -Henry David Thoreau
"They say that characters were engraven on the bathtub of king Tching-thang to this effect: 'renew thyself completely each day; do it again, and again, and forever again.' I can understand that. Morning brings back the heroic ages." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is the beauty within us that makes it possible for us to recognize the beauty around us. The question is not what you look at but what you see." -Henry David Thoreau
"We are underbred and low-lived and illiterate; and in this respect I confess I do not make any very broad distinction between the illiterateness of my townsmen who cannot read at all, and the illiterateness of him who has learned to read only what is for children and feeble intellects." -Henry David Thoreau
"As surely as the sunset in my latest Novembershall translate me to the ethereal world,and remind me of the ruddy morning of youth;as surely as the last strain of music which falls on my decaying earshall make age to be forgotten,or, in short, the manifold influences of naturesurvive during the term of our natural life,so surely my Friend shall forever be my Friend,and reflect a ray of God to me,and time shall foster and adorn and consecrate our Friendship,no less than the ruins of temples." -Henry David Thoreau
"It has come to this, that the lover of art is one, and the lover of nature another, though true art is but the expression of our love of nature." -Henry David Thoreau
"Did ever a man try heroism, magnanimity, truth, sincerity, and find that there was no advantage in them? that it was a vain endeavor?" -Henry David Thoreau
"The book exists for us perchance which will explain our miracles and reveal new ones. The at present unutterable things we may find somewhere uttered. These same questions that disturb and puzzle and confound us have in their turn occurred to all the wise men; not one has been omitted; and each has answered them, according to his ability, by his words and his life." -Henry David Thoreau
"As some heads cannot carry much wine, so it would seem that I cannot bear so much society as you can. I have an immense appetite for solitude, like an infant for sleep, and if I don't get enough of it this year I shall cry all the next." -Henry David Thoreau
"To anticipate, not the sunrise and the dawn merely, but, if possible, Nature herself! How many mornings, summer and winter, before yet any neighbor was stirring about his business, have I been about mine...So many autumn, ay, and winter days, spent outside the town, trying to hear what was in the wind, to hear and carry it express! I well-nigh sunk all my capital in it, and lost my own breath into the bargain, running in the face of it." -Henry David Thoreau
"I have traveled a good deal in Concord; and everywhere, in shops, and offices, and fields, the inhabitants have appeared to me to be doing penance in a thousand remarkable ways." -Henry David Thoreau
"Simplicity, simplicity, simplicity!" -Henry David Thoreau
"A man sits as many risks as he runs." -Henry David Thoreau
"Nations are possessed with an insane ambition to perpetuate the memory of themselves by the amount of hammered stone they leave." -Henry David Thoreau
"Some travellers tell us that an Indian had no name given him at first, but earned it, and his name was his fame; and among some tribes he acquired a new name with every new exploit. It is pitiful when a man bears a name for convenience merely, who has earned neither name nor fame" -Henry David Thoreau
"Those things for which the most money is demanded are never the things which the student most wants. Tuition, for instance, is an important item in the term bill, while for the far more valuable education which he gets by associating with the most cultivated of his contemporaries no charge is made." -Henry David Thoreau
"The spruce and cedar on its shores, hung with gray lichens, looked at a distance like the ghosts of trees. Ducks were sailing here and there on its surface, and a solitary loon, like a more living wave, -- a vital spot on the lake's surface, -- laughed and frolicked, and showed its straight leg, for our amusement." -Henry David Thoreau
"Men are not so much the keepers of herds as herds are the keepers of men." -Henry David Thoreau
"Here is this vast, savage, howling mother of ours, Nature, lying all around, with such beauty, and such affection for her children, as the leopard; and yet we are so early weaned from her breast to society, to that culture which is exclusively an interaction of man on man -- a sort of breeding in and in, which produces at most a merely English nobility, a civilization destined to have a speedy limit." -Henry David Thoreau
"Some circumstantial evidence is very strong, as when you find a trout in the milk." -Henry David Thoreau
"Give me the poverty that enjoys true wealth." -Henry David Thoreau
"The more slowly trees grow at first, the sounder they are at the core, and I think the same is true of human beings." -Henry David Thoreau
"I have met with but one or two persons in the course of my life who understood the art of Walking, that is, of taking walks, who had a genius, so to speak, for sauntering; which word is beautifully derived 'from idle people who roved about the country, in the middle ages, and asked charity, under pretence of going à la sainte terre' -- to the holy land, till the children exclaimed, 'There goes a sainte-terrer', a saunterer -- a holy-lander. They who never go to the holy land in their walks, as they pretend, are indeed mere idlers and vagabonds, but they who do go there are saunterers in the good sense, such as I mean. Some, however, would derive the word from sans terre, without land or a home, which, therefore, in the good sense, will mean, having no particular home, but equally at home everywhere. For this is the secret of successful sauntering. He who sits still in a house all the time may be the greatest vagrant of all, but the Saunterer, in the good sense, is no more vagrant than the meandering river, which is all the while sedulously seeking the shortest course to the sea. But I prefer the first, which indeed is the most probable derivation. For every walk is a sort of crusade, preached by some Peter the Hermit (1) in us, to go forth and reconquer this holy land from the hands of the Infidels." -Henry David Thoreau
"I had this advantage, at least, in my mode of life, over those who were obliged to look abroad for amusement, to society and the theatre, that my life itself was become my amusement and never ceased to be novel. It was a drama of many scenes and without an end. If we were always, indeed, getting our living, and regulating our lives according to the last and best mode we had learned, we should never be troubled with ennui. Follow your genius closely enough, and it will not fail to show you a fresh prospect every hour." -Henry David Thoreau
"I thus found that the student who wishes for a shelter can obtain one for a lifetime at an expense not greater than the rent which he now pays annually. If I seem to boast more than is becoming, my excuse is that I brag for humanity rather than for myself; and my shortcomings and inconsistencies do not affect the truth of my statement." -Henry David Thoreau
"No doubt you can get more in your market for a quart of milk than for a quart of blood, but that is not the market that heroes carry their blood to." -Henry David Thoreau
"For many years I was self-appointed inspector of snow-storms and rain-storms, and did my duty faithfully; surveyor, if not of highways, then of forest paths and all across-lot routes, keeping them open, and ravines bridged and passable at all seasons, where the public heel had testified to their utility." -Henry David Thoreau
"After the first blush of sin comes its indifference; and from immoral it becomes, as it were, unmoral, and not quite unnecessary to that life which we have made." -Henry David Thoreau
"I have yet to hear the first syllable of valuable or even earnest advice from my seniors. They have told me nothing, and probably cannot tell me anything to the purpose. Here is life, an experiment to a great extent untried by me; but it does not avail me that they have tried it. If I have any experience which I think valuable, I am sure to reflect that this my Mentors said nothing about" -Henry David Thoreau
"If I should sell my forenoons and afternoons to society, as most appear to do, I am sure that for me there would be nothing left worth living for." -Henry David Thoreau
"Dwell as near as possible to the channel in which your life flows." -Henry David Thoreau
"Even the best things are not equal to their fame." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is the luxurious and dissipated who set the fashions which the herd so diligently follow." -Henry David Thoreau
"When sometimes I am reminded that the mechanics and shopkeepers stay in their shops not only all the forenoon, but all the afternoon too, sitting with crossed legs, so many of them--as if the legs were made to sit upon, and not to stand or walk upon--I think that they deserve some credit for not having all committed suicide long ago." -Henry David Thoreau
"I cannot believe that our factory system is the best mode by which men may get clothing. The condition of the operatives is becoming every day more like that of the English; and it cannot be wondered at, since, as far as I have heard or observed, the principal object is, not that mankind may be well and honestly clad, but, unquestionably, that corporations may be enriched. In the long run men hit only what they aim at. Therefore, though they should fail immediately, they had better aim at something high." -Henry David Thoreau
"Gardening is civil and social, but it wants the vigor and freedom of the forest and the outlaw." -Henry David Thoreau
"I have found that no exertion of the legs can bring two minds much nearer to the other" -Henry David Thoreau
"Visit the Navy-Yard, and behold a marine, such a man as an American government can make, or such as it can make a man with its black arts, -a mere shadow and reminiscence of humanity, a man laid out alive and standing, and already, as one may say, buried under arms with funeral accompaniments, though it may be, -'Not a drum was heard, not a funeral note,As his corse to the rampart were hurried;Not a soldier discharged his farewell shot,O'er the grave where our hero we buried." -Henry David Thoreau
"One little chore to do, one little commission to fulfil, one message to carry, would spoil heaven itself." -Henry David Thoreau
"Let me have a draught of undiluted morning air. Morning air! If men will not drink of this at the fountainhead of the day, why, then, we must even bottle up some and sell it in the shops, for the benefit of those who have lost their subscription ticket to morning time in this world." -Henry David Thoreau
"In wildness is the preservation of the world." -Henry David Thoreau
"Why should we be in such desperate haste to succeed and in such desperate enterprises? If a man does not keep pace with his companions, perhaps it is because he hears a different drummer. Let him step to the music which he hears, however measured or far away. It is not important that he should mature as soon as an apple tree or an oak. Shall he turn his spring into summer? If the condition of things which we were made for is not yet, what were any reality which we can substitute? We will not be shipwrecked on a vain reality. Shall we with pains erect a heaven of blue glass over ourselves, though when it is done we shall be sure to gaze still at the true ethereal heaven far above, as if the former were not?" -Henry David Thoreau
"A township where one primitive forest waves above, while another primitive forest rots below,--such a town is fitted to raise not only corn and potatoes, but poets and philosophers for the coming ages. In such a soil grew Homer and Confucius and the rest, and out of such a wilderness comes the Reformer eating locusts and wild honey." -Henry David Thoreau
"What old people say you cannot do, you try and find that you can. Old deeds for old people, and new deeds for new." -Henry David Thoreau
"A wise man will know what game to play to-day, and play it. We must not be governed by rigid rules, as by the almanac, but let the season rule us. The moods and thoughts of man are revolving just as steadily and incessantly as nature's. Nothing must be postponed. Take time by the forelock. Now or never! You must live in the present, launch yourself on every wave, find your eternity in each moment. Fools stand on their island opportunities and look toward another land. There is no other land; there is no other life but this, or the like of this. Where the good husbandman is, there is the good soil. Take any other course, and life will be a succession of regrets. Let us see vessels sailing prosperously before the wind, and not simply stranded barks. There is no world for the penitent and regretful." -Henry David Thoreau
"I would rather ride on earth in an ox cart, with a free circulation, than go to heaven in the fancy car of an excursion train and breathe a malaria all the way...But lo! men have become the tools of their tools...We have built for this world a family mansion, and for the next a family tomb." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is a great art to saunter." -Henry David Thoreau
"As far as I have heard or observed, the principal object is, not that mankind may be well and honestly clad, but, unquestionably, that corporations may be enriched." -Henry David Thoreau
"Those who have been bred in the school of politics fail now and always to face the facts." -Henry David Thoreau
"The law will never make men free; it is men who have got to make the law free." -Henry David Thoreau
"This was that Earth of which we have heard, made out of Chaos and Old Night." -Henry David Thoreau
"Be a Columbus to whole new continents and worlds within you, opening new channels, not of trade, but of thought. Every man is the lord of a realm beside which the earthly empire of the Czar is but a petty state..." -Henry David Thoreau
"As for Doing-good,that is one of the professions which are full. Moreover, I have tried itfairly, and, strange as it may seem, am satisfied that it does not agreewith my constitution. Probably I should not consciously and deliberatelyforsake my particular calling to do the good which society demands ofme, to save the universe from annihilation; and I believe that a likebut infinitely greater steadfastness elsewhere is all that now preservesit." -Henry David Thoreau
"The savage in man is never quite eradicated." -Henry David Thoreau
"With what infinite & unwearied expectation and proclamations the cocks usher in every dawn, as if there had never been one before." -Henry David Thoreau
"Man is an animal who more than any other can adapt himself to all climates and circumstances." -Henry David Thoreau
"Will you be a reader, a student merely, or a seer? Read your fate, see what is before you, and walk on into futurity." -Henry David Thoreau
"Children, who play life, discern its true law and relations more clearly than men, who fail to live it worthily, but who think that they are wiser by experience, that is, by failure." -Henry David Thoreau
"Beauty is where it is perceived. When I see the sun shinning on the woods across the pond, I think this side the richer which sees it." -Henry David Thoreau
"It would be well, perhaps, if we were to spend more of our days and nights without any obstruction between us and the celestial bodies, if the poet did not speak so much from under a roof, or the saint dwell there so long. Birds do not sing in caves, nor do doves cherish their innocence in dovecots." -Henry David Thoreau
"Why should we live with such hurry and waste of life? We are determined to be starved before we are hungry." -Henry David Thoreau
"The really efficient laborer will be found not to crowd his day with work, but will saunter to his task surrounded by a wide halo of ease and leisure. There will be a wide margin for relaxation to his day. He is only earnest to secure the kernels of time, and does not exaggerate the value of the husk. Why should the hen set all day? She can lay but one egg, and besides she will not have picked up materials for a new one. Those who work much do not work hard." -Henry David Thoreau
"As with our colleges, so with a hundred 'modern improvements;' there is an illusion about them; there is not always a positive advance. The devil goes on exacting compound interest to the last for his early share and numerous succeeding investments in them. Our inventions are wont to be pretty toys, which distract our attention from serious things. They are but improved means to an unimproved end, an end which it was already but too easy to arrive at..." -Henry David Thoreau
"As for clothing, [...] perhaps we are led oftener by the love of novelty, and a regard for the opinions of men, in procuring it, than by a true utility. [...] No man ever stood the lower in my estimation for having a patch in his clothes; yet I am sure that there is greater anxiety, commonly, to have fashionable, or at least clean and unpatched clothes, than to have a sound conscience." -Henry David Thoreau
"The stars are the apexes of what wonderful triangles! What distant and different beings in the various mansions of the universe are contemplating the same one at the same moment! Nature and human life are as various as our several constitutions. Who shall say what prospect life offers to another? Could a greater miracle take place than for us to look through each other's eyes for an instant?" -Henry David Thoreau
"I have great faith in a seed. Convince me that you have a seed there, and I am prepared to expect wonders." -Henry David Thoreau
"The heroic books, even if printed in the character of our mother tongue, will always be in a language dead to degenerate times; and we must laboriously seek the meaning of each word and line, conjecturing a larger sense than common use permits out of what wisdom and valor and generosity we have." -Henry David Thoreau
"A journal is a record of experiences and growth, not a preserve of things well done or said." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is hard to have a Southern overseer; it is worse to have a Northern one; but worst of all when you are the slave-driver of yourself." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is best to avoid the beginnings of evil." -Henry David Thoreau
"The thoughtful man becomes a hermit in the thoroughfares of the marketplace." -Henry David Thoreau
"I was not born to be forced. I will breathe after my own fashion. Let us see who is the strongest. What force has a multitude? They only can force me who obey a higher law than I. They force me to become like themselves. I do not hear of men being forced to live this way or that by masses of men. What sort of life were that to live? When I meet a government which says to me, 'Your money or your life,' why should I be in haste to give it my money?" -Henry David Thoreau
"My practice is 'nowhere', my opinion is here." -Henry David Thoreau
"The fault-finder will find fault even in paradise." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is truly enough said that a corporation has no conscience. But a corporation of conscientious men is a corporation with a conscience." -Henry David Thoreau
"Is there not a sort of blood shed when the conscience is wounded? Through this wound a man's real manhood and immortality flow out, and he bleeds to an everlasting death." -Henry David Thoreau
"Many a forenoon have I stolen away, preferring to spend thus the most valued part of the day; for I was rich, if not in money, in sunny hours and summer days, and spent them lavishly; nor do I regret that I did not waste more of them in the workshop or the teacher's desk." -Henry David Thoreau
"A distinguished clergyman told me that he chose the profession of a clergyman because it afforded the most leisure for literary pursuits. I would recommend to him the profession of a governor." -Henry David Thoreau
"Now-a-days, men wear a fool's cap, and call it a liberty cap." -Henry David Thoreau
"A minority is powerless while it conforms to the majority; it is not even a minority then; but it is irresistible when it clogs by its whole weight. If the alternative is to keep all just men in prison, or give up war and slavery, the State will not hesitate which to choose. If a thousand men were not to pay their tax bills this year, that would not be a violent and bloody measure, as it would be to pay them, and enable the State to commit violence and shed innocent blood. This is, in fact, the definition of a peaceable revolution, if any such is possible." -Henry David Thoreau
"Men come tamely home at night only from the next field or streeet, where their household echoes haunt, and their life pines because it breathes its own breath over again; their shadows, morning and evening, reach farther than their daily steps. We should come home from far, from adventures, and perils, and discoveries every day, with new experience and character" -Henry David Thoreau
"Every man looks upon his wood pile with a sort of affection." -Henry David Thoreau
"It costs me nothing for curtains, for I have no gazers to shut out but the sun and moon, and I am willing that they should look in...and if he [the sun] is sometimes too warm a friend, I find it still better economy to retreat behind some curtain which nature has provided." -Henry David Thoreau
"Thus we kept on like true idealists, rejecting the evidence of our senses" -Henry David Thoreau
"We might try our lives by a thousand simple tests; as, for instance,that the same sun which ripens my beans illumines at once a system ofearths like ours. If I had remembered this it would have prevented somemistakes. This was not the light in which I hoed them. The stars are theapexes of what wonderful triangles! What distant and different beings inthe various mansions of the universe are contemplating the same one atthe same moment!" -Henry David Thoreau
"He who sits still in a house all the time may be the greatest vagrant of all; but the saunterer, in the good sense, is no more vagrant than the meandering river, which is all the while sedulously seeking the shortest course to the sea." -Henry David Thoreau
"Next to us is not the workman whom we have hired, with whom we love so well to talk, but the workman whose work we are." -Henry David Thoreau
"When I wrote the following pages, or rather the bulk of them, I lived alone, in the woods, a mile from any neighbor, in a house which I had built myself, on the shore of Walden Pond, in Concord, Massachusetts, and earned my living by the labor of my hands only. I lived there two years and two months." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is a very remarkable and significant fact that though no man is quite well or healthy yet every one believes practically that health is the rule & disease the exception." -Henry David Thoreau
"As with our colleges, so with a hundred 'modern improvements'; there is an illusion about them; there is not always a positive advance." -Henry David Thoreau
"The earth is not a mere fragment of dead history, stratum upon stratum like the leaves of a book, to be studied by geologists and antiquaries chiefly, but living poetry like the leaves of a tree, which precede flowers and fruit--not a fossil earth, but a living earth; compared with whose great central life all animal and vegetable life is merely parasitic." -Henry David Thoreau
"La loi n'a jamais rendu les hommes plus justes d'un iota ; et, à cause du respect qu'ils lui marquent, les êtres bien disposés eux-même deviennent les agents de l'injustice." -Henry David Thoreau
"The light which puts out our eyes is darkness to us. Only that day dawns to which we are awake. There is more day to dawn. The sun is but a morning star." -Henry David Thoreau
"A truly good book teaches me better than to read it. I must soon lay it down, and commence living on its hint. What I began by reading, I must finish by acting." -Henry David Thoreau
"It's circumstantial evidence, like finding a trout in the milk." -Henry David Thoreau
"Go confidently in the direction of your dreams. Live the life you have imagined." -Henry David Thoreau
"Aim above morality. Be not simply good, be good for something." -Henry David Thoreau
"The soil, it appears, is suited to the seed, for it has sent its radicle downward, and it may now send its shoot upward also with confidence. Why has man rooted himself thus firmly in the earth, but that he may rise in the same proportion into the heavens above?" -Henry David Thoreau
"Which would have advanced the most at the end of a month--the boy who had made his own jackknife from the ore which he had dug and smelted, reading as much as would be necessary for this--or the boy who had attended the lectures on metallurgy at the Institute in the meanwhile, and had received a Rodgers' penknife from his father? Which would be most likely to cut his fingers?... To my astonishment I was informed on leaving college that I had studied navigation!--why, if I had taken one turn down the harbor I should have known more about it. Even the poor student studies and is taught only political economy, while that economy of living which is synonymous with philosophy is not even sincerely professed in our colleges. The consequence is, that while he is reading Adam Smith, Ricardo, and Say, he runs his father in debt irretrievably." -Henry David Thoreau
"Let not to get a living be thy trade, but thy sport. Enjoy the land, but own it not. Through want of enterprise and faith men are where they are, buying and selling, and spending their lives like serfs." -Henry David Thoreau
"We should be men first, and subjects afterward." -Henry David Thoreau
"The purity men love is like the mists which envelop the earth, and not likethe azure ether beyond." -Henry David Thoreau
"The orator yields to the inspiration of a transient occasion, and speaks to the mob, before him, to those who can hear him; but the writer, whose more equable life is his crowd which inspire the orator, speaks to the intellect and heart of mankind, to all in any age who can understand him." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is by a mathematical point only that we are wise, as the sailor or fugitive slave keeps the polestar in his eye; but that is sufficient guidance for all our life. We may not arrive at our port within a calculable period, but we would preserve the true course." -Henry David Thoreau
"Instead of noblemen, let us have noble villages of men." -Henry David Thoreau
"Many of our days should be spent, not in vain expectations and lying on our oars, but in carrying out deliberately and faithfully the hundred little purposes which every man's genius must have suggested to him. Let not your life be wholly without an object, though it be only to ascertain the flavor of a cranberry, for it will not be only the quality of an insignificant berry that you will have tasted, but the flavor of your life to that extent, and it will be such a sauce as no wealth can buy." -Henry David Thoreau
"There are none happy in the world but beings who enjoy freely a vast horizon'--said Damodara, when his herds required new and larger pastures." -Henry David Thoreau
"We are always paid for our suspicion by finding what we suspect." -Henry David Thoreau
"The head monkey at Paris puts on a traveller's cap, and all the monkeys in America do the same." -Henry David Thoreau
"If we knew all the laws of Nature, we should need only one fact, or the description of one actual phenomenon, to infer all the particular results at that point. Now we know only a few laws, and our result is vitiated, not, of course, by any confusion or irregularity in Nature, but by our ignorance of essential elements in the calculation. Our notions of law and harmony are commonly confined to those instances which we detect; but the harmony which results from a far greater number of seemingly conflicting, but really concurring, laws, which we have not detected, is still more wonderful. The particular laws are as our points of view, as, to the traveller, a mountain outline varies with every step, and it has an infinite number of profiles, though absolutely but one form. Even when cleft or bored through it is not comprehended in its entireness." -Henry David Thoreau
"I will not through humility become the devil's attorney" -Henry David Thoreau
"Some single trees, wholly bright scarlet, seen against others of their kind still freshly green, or against evergreens, are more memorable than whole groves will be by-and-by. How beautiful, when a whole tree is like one great scarlet fruit full of ripe juices, every leaf, from lowest limb to topmost spire, all aglow, especially if you look toward the sun! What more remarkable object can there be in the landscape? Visible for miles, too fair to be believed. If such a phenomenon occurred but once, it would be handed down by tradition to posterity, and get into the mythology at last." -Henry David Thoreau
"How sweet it would be to treat men and things, for an hour, for just what they are! [...] When we are weary with travel, we lay down our load and rest by the wayside. So, when we are weary with the burden of life, why do we not lay down this load of falsehoods which we have volunteered to sustain, and be refreshed as never mortal was? Let the beautiful laws prevail. Let us not weary ourselves by resisting them. When we would rest our bodies we cease to support them; we recline on the lap of the earth. So, when we would rest our spirits, we must recline on the Great Spirit. Let things alone; let them weigh what they will; let them soar of fall." -Henry David Thoreau
"A written word is the choicest of relics. It is something at once intimate with us and more universal than any other work of art. It is the work of art nearest to life itself." -Henry David Thoreau
"I would remind my countrymen that they are to be men first, and Americans only at a late and convenient hour." -Henry David Thoreau
"Books of natural history make the most cheerful winter reading." -Henry David Thoreau
"In the love of narrow souls I make many short voyages but in vain–I find no sea room--but in great souls I sail before the wind without a watch, and never reach the shore. " -Henry David Thoreau
"The life in us is like the water in the river. It may rise this year higher than man has ever known it, and flood the parched uplands; even this may be the eventful year, which will drown out all our muskrats. It was not always dry land where we dwell." -Henry David Thoreau
"A bore is someone who takes away my solitude and doesn't give me companionship in return" -Henry David Thoreau
"Let every man make known what kind of government would command his respect, and that will be one step toward obtaining it." -Henry David Thoreau
"The luxuriously rich are not simply kept comfortably warm, but unnaturally hot; as I implied before, they are cooked, of course _à la mode_." -Henry David Thoreau
"The spruce, the hemlock, and the pine will not countenance despair." -Henry David Thoreau
"In dreams we see ourselves naked and acting out our real characters, even more clearly than we see others awake. But an unwavering and commanding virtue would compel even its most fantastic and faintest dreams to respect its ever wakeful authority; as we are accustomed to say carelessly, we should never have dreamed of such a thing. Our truest life is when we are in dreams awake." -Henry David Thoreau
"Cultivate the habit of early rising. It is unwise to keep the head long on a level with the feet." -Henry David Thoreau
"If the injustice is part of the necessary friction of the machine of government, let it go, let it go: perchance it will wear smooth--certainly the machine will wear out. If the injustice has a spring, or a pulley, or a rope, or a crank, exclusively for itself, then perhaps you may consider whether the remedy will not be worse than the evil; but if it is of such a nature that it requires you to be the agent of injustice to another, then I say, break the law. Let your life be a counter-friction to stop the machine. What I have to do is to see, at any rate, that I do not lend myself to the wrong which I condemn." -Henry David Thoreau
"There is more day left to dawn. The sun is but a morning star." -Henry David Thoreau
"By turns our purity inspires and our impurity casts us down." -Henry David Thoreau
"All the world complain now a days of a press of trivial duties & engagements which prevents their employing themselves on some higher ground they know of, - but undoubtedly if they were made of the right stuff to work on that higher ground, provided they were released from all those engagements - they would now at once fulfill the superior engagement, and neglect all the rest, as naturally as they breathe. They would never be caught saying that they had no time for this when the dullest man knows that this is all that he has time for." -Henry David Thoreau
"The Harivansa says, 'An abode without birds is like a meat without seasoning.' Such was not my abode, for I found myself suddenly neighbor to the birds; not by having imprisoned one, but having caged myself near them." -Henry David Thoreau
"The delicious soft, spring-suggesting air,--how it fills my veins with life! Life becomes again credible to me. A certain dormant life awakes in me, and I begin to love nature again." -Henry David Thoreau
"Sometimes, in a summer morning, having taken my accustomed bath, I sat in my sunny doorway from sunrise till noon, rapt in a revery, amidst the pines and hickories and sumachs, in undisturbed solitude and stillness, while the birds sing around or flitted noiseless through the house, until by the sun falling in at my west window, or the noise of some traveller's wagon on the distant highway, I was reminded of the lapse of time. I grew in those seasons like corn in the night, and they were far better than any work of the hands would have been. They were not time subtracted from my life, but so much over and above my usual allowance. I realized what the Orientals mean by contemplation and the forsaking of works. For the most part, I minded not how the hours went. The day advanced as if to light some work of mine; it was morning, and lo, now it is evening, and nothing memorable is accomplished. Instead of singing like the birds, I silently smiled at my incessant good fortune. As the sparrow had its trill, sitting on the hickory before my door, so had I my chuckle or suppressed warble which he might hear out of my nest. My days were not days of the week, bearing the stamp of any heathen deity, nor were they minced into hours and fretted by the ticking of a clock; for I lived like the Puri Indians, of whom it is said that 'for yesterday, today, and tomorrow they have only one word, and they express the variety of meaning by pointing backward for yesterday forward for tomorrow, and overhead for the passing day.' This was sheer idleness to my fellow-townsmen, no doubt; but if the birds and flowers had tried me by their standard, I should not have been found wanting. A man must find his occasions in himself, it is true. The natural day is very calm, and will hardly reprove his indolence." -Henry David Thoreau
"The laboring man has not leisure for a true integrity day by day; he cannot afford to sustain the manliest relations to men; his labor would be depreciated in the market. He has no time to be anything but a machine." -Henry David Thoreau
"Confucious said, To know what we know what we know, and that we do not know what we do not know, that is true knowledge." -Henry David Thoreau
"It matters not where or how far you travel,--the farther commonly the worse,--but how much alive you are." -Henry David Thoreau
"The man who goes alone can start today; but he who travels with another must wait till that other is ready." -Henry David Thoreau
"Money is not required to buy one necessity of the soul." -Henry David Thoreau
"The time must come when this coast (Cape Cod) will be a place of resort for those New-Englanders who really wish to visit the sea-side. At present it is wholly unknown to the fashionable world, and probably it will never be agreeable to them. If it is merely a ten-pin alley, or a circular railway, or an ocean of mint-julep, that the visitor is in search of, -- if he thinks more of the wine than the brine, as I suspect some do at Newport, -- I trust that for a long time he will be disappointed here. But this shore will never be more attractive than it is now." -Henry David Thoreau
"Nature now, like an athlete, begins to strip herself in earnest for her contest with her great antagonist Winter. In the bare trees and twigs what a display of muscle!" -Henry David Thoreau
"I have learned that the swiftest traveler is he that goes afoot." -Henry David Thoreau
"Even the utmost good-will and harmony and practical kindness are not sufficient for Friendship, for Friends do not live in harmony merely, as some say, but in melody. We do not wish for Friends to feed and clothe our bodies, -neighbors are kind enough for that, -but to do the like office to our spirits. For this few are rich enough, however well disposed they may be." -Henry David Thoreau
"Every poet has trembled on the verge of science." -Henry David Thoreau
"The finest workers in stone are not copper or steel tools but the gentle touches of air and water working at their leisure with their liberal allowance of time." -Henry David Thoreau
"Books are the carriers of civilization. Without books, history is silent, literature dumb, science crippled, thought and speculation at a standstill. I think that there is nothing, not even crime, more opposed to poetry, to philosophy, ay, to life itself than this incessant business." -Henry David Thoreau
"The rush to California, for instance, and the attitude, not merely of merchants, but of philosophers and prophets, so called, in relation to it, reflect the greatest disgrace on mankind. That so many are ready to live by luck, and so get the means of commanding the labor of others less lucky, without contributing any value to society! And that is called enterprise!" -Henry David Thoreau
"Renew thyself completely each day; do it again, and again, and forever again." -Henry David Thoreau
"I have spent many an hour, when I was younger, floating over its surface as the zephyr willed, having paddled my boat to the middle, and lying on my back across the seats, in a summer forenoon, dreaming awake, until I was aroused by the boat touching the sand, and I arose to see what shore my fates had impelled me to; days when idleness was the most attractive and productive industry. Many a forenoon have I stolen away, preferring to spend thus the most valued part of the day; for I was rich, if not in money, in sunny hours and summer days, and spent them lavishly; nor do I regret that I did not waste more of them in the workshop or the teacher's desk." -Henry David Thoreau
"To read well, that is, to read true books in a true spirit, is a noble exercise, and one that will task the reader more than any exercise which the customs of the day esteem." -Henry David Thoreau
"What business have I in the woods, if I am thinking of something out of the woods?" -Henry David Thoreau
"I was determined to know beans." -Henry David Thoreau
"Being is the great explainer." -Henry David Thoreau
"If ever I was sure that someone was coming to help me, I should run like hell." -Henry David Thoreau
"for I was rich, if not in money, in sunny hours and summer days, and spent them lavishly;" -Henry David Thoreau
"My desire for knowledge is intermittent, but my desire to bathe my head in atmospheres unknown to my feet is perennial and constant. The highest that we can attain to is not Knowledge, but Sympathy with Intelligence." -Henry David Thoreau
"Most men appear never to have considered what a house is, and are actually though needlessly poor all their lives because they think that they must have such a one as their neighbors have. As if one were to wear any sort of coat which the tailor might cut out for him, or gradually leaving off palm-leaf hat or cap of woodchuck skin, complain of hard times because he could not afford to buy him a crown! It is possible to invent a house still more convenient and luxurious than we have, which yet all would admit that man could not afford to pay for. Shall we always study to obtain more of these things, and not sometimes be content with less?" -Henry David Thoreau
"It is not enough to be busy. So are the ants. The question is: What are we busy about?" -Henry David Thoreau
"Behave so the aroma of your actions may enhance the general sweetness of the atmosphere." -Henry David Thoreau
"The moose will perhaps one day become extinct; but how naturally then, when it exists only as a fossil relic, and unseen as that, may the poet or sculptor invent a fabulous animal with similar branching and leafy horns, -- a sort of fucus or lichen in bone, -- to be the inhabitant of such a forest as this!" -Henry David Thoreau
"If I devote myself to other pursuits and contemplations, I must first see, at least, that I do not pursue them sitting upon another man's shoulders. I must get off him first, that he may pursue his contemplations too. See what gross inconsistency is tolerated. I have heard some of my townsmen say, 'I should like to have them order me out to help put down an insurrection of the slaves, or to march to Mexico--see if I would go'; and yet these very men have each, directly by their allegiance, and so indirectly, at least, by their money, furnished a substitute." -Henry David Thoreau
"Cold and hunger seem more friendly to my nature than those methods which men have adopted and advise to ward them off." -Henry David Thoreau
"Do we call this the land of the free? What is it to be free from King George and continue the slaves of King Prejudice? What is it to be born free and not to live free? What is the value of any political freedom, but as a means to moral freedom? Is it a freedom to be slaves, or a freedom to be free, of which we boast? We are a nation of politicians, concerned about the outmost defences only of freedom. It is our children's children who may perchance be really free. We tax ourselves unjustly. There is a part of us which is not represented. It is taxation without representation. We quarter troops, we quarter fools and cattle of all sorts upon ourselves. We quarter our gross bodies on our poor souls, till the former eat up all the latter's substance." -Henry David Thoreau
"If I put my head deliberately into the fire, there is no appeal to fire or to the maker of fire, and I have only myself to blame." -Henry David Thoreau
"‎I love even to see the domestic animals reassert their native rights -- any evidence that they have not wholly lost their original wild habits and vigor; as when my neighbor's cow breaks out of her pasture early in the Spring and boldly swims the river, a cold grey tide, twenty-five or thirty rods wide, swollen by the melted snow. It is the Buffalo crossing the Mississippi." -Henry David Thoreau
"We must look for a long time before we can see." -Henry David Thoreau
"Whether he sleeps or wakes, whether he runs or walks, whether he uses a microscope or a telescope, or his naked eye, a man never discovers anything, never overtakes anything or leaves anything behind, but himself. Whatever he says or does he merely reports himself. If he is in love, he loves; if he is in heaven, he enjoys, if he is in hell, he suffers. It is his condition that determines his locality." -Henry David Thoreau
"I ask for, not at once no government, but at once a better government" -Henry David Thoreau
"If it is asserted that civilization is a real advance in the condition of man -- and I think that it is, though only the wise improve their advantages -- it must be shown that it has produced better dwellings without making them more costly; and the cost of a thing is the amount of what I will call life which is required to be exchanged for it, immediately or in the long run." -Henry David Thoreau
"How silent are the footsteps of Spring!" -Henry David Thoreau
"We must walk consciously only part way toward our goal, and then leap in the dark to our success." -Henry David Thoreau
"I frequently tramped eight or ten miles through the deepest snow to keep an appointment with a beech-tree, or a yellow birch, or an old acquaintance among the pines." -Henry David Thoreau
"Nature abhors a vacuum, and if I can only walk with sufficient carelessness I am sure to be filled." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is not a man's duty, as a matter of course, to devote himself to the eradication of any, even to most enormous wrong; he may still properly have other concerns to engage him; but it is his duty, at least, to wash his hands of it, and, if he gives it no thought longer, not to give it practically his support." -Henry David Thoreau
"The day is an epitome of the year. The night is the winter, the morning and evening are the spring and fall, and the noon is the summer." -Henry David Thoreau
"Gardening is civil and social, but it wants the vigor and freedom of the forest and the outlaw. There may be an excess of cultivation as well as of anything else, until civilization becomes pathetic. A highly cultivated man, -all whose bones can be bent! whose heaven-born virtues are but good manners!" -Henry David Thoreau
"The man I meet with is not often so instructive as the silence he breaks." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is hard to forget that which it is worse than useless to remember." -Henry David Thoreau
"Happiness is like a butterfly; the more you chase it, the more it will elude you, but if you turn your attention to other things, it will come and sit comfortably on your shoulder." -Henry David Thoreau
"I wish to forget, a considerable part of every day, all mean, narrow, trivial men (and this requires usually to forego and forget all personal relations so long), and therefore I come out to these solitudes, where the problem of existence is simplified. I enter some glade in the woods, perchance, where a few weeds and dry leaves alone lift themselves above the surface of the snow, and it is as if I had come to an open window. I see out and around myself." -Henry David Thoreau
"Ich ging in die Wälder, weil ich bewusst leben wollte.Ich wollte das Dasein auskosten. Ich wollte das Mark des Lebens einsaugen!Und alles fortwerfen, das kein Leben barg, um nicht an meinem Todestag Innezuwerden, daß ich nie gelebt hatte." -Henry David Thoreau
"De la literatura sólo nos atrae lo salvaje. El aburrimiento no es sino otro nombre para lo domesticado." -Henry David Thoreau
"Man and his affairs, church and state and school, trade and commerce, and manufactures and agriculture even politics, the most alarming of them all--I am pleased to see how little space they occupy in the landscape." -Henry David Thoreau
"In most books, the I, or first person, is omitted; in this it will be retained; that, in respect to egotism, is the main difference." -Henry David Thoreau
"The rays which stream through the shutter will be no longer remembered when the shutter is wholly removed." -Henry David Thoreau
"Roads are made for horses and men of business. I do not travel in them much, comparatively, because I am not in a hurry to get to any tavern or grocery or livery-stable or depot to which they lead." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is usually the imagination that is wounded first, rather than the heart; it being much more sensitive." -Henry David Thoreau
"Oh to reach the point of death and realize one has not lived at all." -Henry David Thoreau
"As crianças que brincam a viver discernem, com mais clareza que os adultos, a verdadeira lei da vida e as suas relações, enquanto estes fracassam sem conseguir vivê-la condignamente, embora pensem que a experiência, ou seja, o fracasso, os tornou mais sábios." -Henry David Thoreau
"Many an object is not seen, though it falls within the range of our visual ray, because it does not come within the range of our intellectual ray, i.e., we are not looking for it. So, in the largest sense, we find only the world we look for." -Henry David Thoreau
"Do not engage to find things as you think they are." -Henry David Thoreau
"Happiness is like a butterfly, the more you chase it, the more it will evade you. But if you turn your attention to other things, it will come and softly rest on your shoulder." -Henry David Thoreau
"There is no life but this." -Henry David Thoreau
"To the SICK the doctors wisely recommed a change of air and scenery" -Henry David Thoreau
"I cannot but feel compassion when I hear some trig, compact-looking man, seemingly free, all girded and ready, speak of his 'furniture,' as whether it is insured or not. 'But what shall I do with my furniture?'...It would surpass the powers of a well man nowadays to take up his bed and walk, and I should certainly advise a sick one to lay down his bed and run." -Henry David Thoreau
"We get only transient and partial glimpses of the beauty of the world. Standing at the right angle, we are dazzled by the colors of the rainbow in colorless ice. From the right point of view, every storm and every drop in it is a rainbow." -Henry David Thoreau
"If a man who has no property refuses but once to earn nine shillings for the State, he is put in prison for a period unlimited by any law that I know, and determined only by the discretion of those who put him there; but if he should steal ninety times nine shillings from the State, he is soon permitted to go at large again." -Henry David Thoreau
"After a still winter night I awoke with the impression that some question had been put to me, which I had been endeavoring in vain to answer in my sleep, as what--how--when--where? But there was dawning Nature, in whom all creatures live, looking in at my broad windows with serene and satisfied face, and no question on her lips. I awoke to an answered question, to Nature and daylight." -Henry David Thoreau
"Men sometimes speak as if the study of the classics would at length make way for more modern and practical studies; but the adventurous student will always study classics, in whatever language they may be written and however ancient they may be. For what are the classics but the noblest recorded thoughts of man? We might as well omit to study Nature because she is old." -Henry David Thoreau
"I would not have every man nor every part of a man cultivated, anymore than I would have every acre of earth cultivated." -Henry David Thoreau
"Politics is the gizzard of society, full of grit and gravel, and the two political parties are its opposite halves - sometimes split into quarters - which grind on each other. Not only individuals but states have thus a confirmed dyspepsia." -Henry David Thoreau
"A man who has at length found something to do will not need to get a new suit to do it in. If there is not a new man, how can the new clothes be made to fit? All men want, not something to do with, but something to do, or rather something to be. Perhaps we should never procure a new suit until we have so conducted that we feel like new men in the old." -Henry David Thoreau
"What if we feel a yearning to which no breast answers?" -Henry David Thoreau
"Nature is mythical and mystical always, and works with the license and extravagance of genius." -Henry David Thoreau
"Where shall we look for standard English but to the words of a standard man?" -Henry David Thoreau
"I believe that, in this country, the press exerts a greater and a more pernicious influence than the church did in its worst period. We are not a religious people, but we are a nation of politicians." -Henry David Thoreau
"I think that we should be men first and subjects afterward. It is not desirable to cultivate a respect for the law, so much as for the right." -Henry David Thoreau
"One chair for solitude, two for friendship, and three for society." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is difficult to begin without borrowing, but perhaps it is the most generous course thus to permit your fellow-men to have an interest in your enterprise. The owner of the axe, as he released his hold on it, said that it was the apple of his eye; but I returned it sharper than I received it." -Henry David Thoreau
"And I am sure that I never read any memorable news in a newspaper. If we read of one man robbed, or murdered, or killed by accident, or one house burned, or one vessel wrecked, or one steamboat blown up, or one cow run over on the Western Railroad, or one mad dog killed, or one lot of grasshoppers in the winter – we never need read of another. [...] To a philosopher all 'news', as it is called, is gossip, and they who edit and read it are old women over their tea. Yet not a few are greedy after this gossip." -Henry David Thoreau
"The greatest gains and values are farthest from being appreciated." -Henry David Thoreau
"When you right or extricate a ducking businessman (take him out of chancery) and set him before the wind again, it is worth the while to look and see if he has any seed of success under him. Such a one you may know afar. He floats more slowly and steadily, carrying weight--and of his enterprise, expect results." -Henry David Thoreau
"There is no help for it; for he considers, not what is truly respectable, but what is respected." -Henry David Thoreau
"America is said to be the arena on which the battle of freedom is to be fought; but surely it cannot be freedom in a merely political sense that is meant. Even if we grant that the American has freed himself from a political tyrant, he is still the slave of an economical and moral tyrant. Now that the republic -- the res-publica -- has been settled, it is time to look after the res-privata, -- the private state, -- to see, as the Roman senate charged its consuls, 'ne quidres-PRIVATA detrimenti caperet,' that the private state receive no detriment." -Henry David Thoreau
"The works of the great poets have never yet been read by mankind, for only great poets can read the." -Henry David Thoreau
"I am grateful for what I am and have. My Thanksgiving is perpetual. It is surprising how contented one can be with nothing to definite - only a sense of existence" -Henry David Thoreau
"The doctrines of despair, of spiritual or political tyranny or servitude, were never taught by such as shared the serenity of nature." -Henry David Thoreau
"If a man walk in the woods for love of them half of each day, he is in danger of being regarded as a loafer; but if he spends his whole as a speculator, shearing off those woods and making earth bald before her time, he is esteemed an industrious and enterprising citizen." -Henry David Thoreau
"I am a parcel of vain strivings tied by a chance bond together." -Henry David Thoreau
"How shall I help myself? By withdrawing into the garret, and associating with spiders and mice, determining to meet myself face to face sooner or later. Completely silent and attentive I will be this hour, and the next, and forever." -Henry David Thoreau
"The attitude of resistance is one of weakness inasmuch as it only faces an enemy. It has its back to all that is truly attractive." -Henry David Thoreau
"Our life is frittered away by detail." -Henry David Thoreau
"The West of which I speak is but another name for the Wild; and what I have been preparing to say is, that in the Wildness is the preservation of the World." -Henry David Thoreau
"The morning wind forever blows, the poem of creation is uninterrupted; but few are the ears that hear it. Olympus is but the outside of the earth everywhere." -Henry David Thoreau
"If there is any hell more unprincipled than our rulers, and we, the ruled, I feel curious to see it." -Henry David Thoreau
"I was walking in a meadow, the source of a small brook, when the sun at last, just before setting, after a cold, gray day, reached a clear stratum in the horizon, and the softest, brightest morning sunlight fell on the dry grass and on the stems of the trees in the opposite horizon and on the leaves of the shrub oaks on the hillside, while our shadows stretched long over the meadow east-ward, as if we were the only motes in its beams. It was such a light as we could not have imagined a moment before, and the air also was so warm and serene that nothing was wanting to make a paradise of that meadow." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is not my business to be petitioning the Governor or the Legislature any more than it is theirs to petition me; and if they should not hear my petition, what should I do then? But in this case the State has provided no way: its very Constitution is the evil. This" -Henry David Thoreau
"I did not wish to live what was not life, living is so dear." -Henry David Thoreau
"They make their pride,' he said, 'in making their dinner cost much; I make my pride in making my dinner cost little.' When asked at table what dish he preferred, he answered, 'The nearest." -Henry David Thoreau
"Any man will go considerably out of his way to pick up a silver dollar; but here are golden words, which the wisest men of antiquity have uttered, and whose worth the wise of every succeeding age have assured us of; and yet we learn to read only as far as Easy Reading, the primers and classbooks, and when we leave school, the Little Reading, and story books, which are for boys and beginners; and our reading, our conversation and thinking, are all on a very low level, worthy only of pygmies and manikins." -Henry David Thoreau
"What is it that makes it so hard sometimes to determine whither we will walk? I believe that there is a subtle magnetism in Nature, which, if we unconsciously yield to it, will direct us aright." -Henry David Thoreau
"Do not seek so anxiously to be developed, to subject yourself to many influences to be played on; it is all dissipation. Humility like darkness reveals the heavenly lights." -Henry David Thoreau
"A man's ignorance sometimes is not only useful, but beautiful--while his knowledge, so called, is oftentimes worse than useless, besides being ugly." -Henry David Thoreau
"Those who have not learned to read the ancient classics in the language in which they were written must have a very imperfect knowledge of the history of the human race; for it is remarkable that no transcript of them has ever been made into any modern tongue, unless our civilization itself may be regarded as such a transcript. Homer has never yet been printed in English, nor Aeschylus, nor Virgil even, works as refined, as solidly done, and as beautiful almost as the morning itself; for later writers, say what we will of their genius, have rarely, if ever, equaled the elaborate beauty and finish and the lifelong and heroic literary labors of the ancients. They only talk of forgetting them who never knew them." -Henry David Thoreau
"My excuse for not lecturing against the use of tobacco is, that I never chewed it; that is a penalty which reformed tobacco chewers have to pay; though there are things enough I have chewed, which I could lecture against. If you should ever be betrayed into any of these philanthropies, do not let your left hand know what your right hand does , for it is not worth knowing. Rescue the drowning and tie your shoe-strings. Take your time, and set about some free labor." -Henry David Thoreau
"The highest that we can attain to is not Knowledge, but Sympathy with Intelligence." -Henry David Thoreau
"But never mind; faint heart never won true Friend. O Friend, may it come to pass, once, that when you are my Friend I may be yours." -Henry David Thoreau
"Time is but the stream I go a-fishing in. I drink at it; but while I drink I see the sandy bottom and detect how shallow it is. Its thin current slides away, but eternity remains. I would drink deeper; fish in the sky, whose bottom is pebbly with stars." -Henry David Thoreau
"Most of the luxuries, and many of the so called comforts of life, are not only not indispensable, but positive hinderances to the elevation of mankind. With respect to luxuries and comforts, the wisest have ever lived a more simple and meager life than the poor. The ancient philosophers, Chinese, Hindoo, Persian, and Greek, were a class than which none has been poorer in outward riches, none so rich in inward." -Henry David Thoreau
"Warm your body by healthful exercise, not by cowering over a stove." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is not worth the while to go round the world to count the cats in Zanzibar." -Henry David Thoreau
"I have learned that the swiftest traveller is he that goes a-foot. I say to my friend, Suppose we try who will get there first. The distance is thirty miles, the fare ninety cents. That is almost a day's wage. I remember when wages were sixty cents a-day for labourers on this very road. Well, I start now on foot, and get there before night; I have travelled at that rate by the week together. You will in the meanwhile have earned your fare, and arrive there some time to-morrow, or possibly this evening, if you are lucky enough to get a job in season. Instead of going to Fitchburg, you will be working here the greater part of the day." -Henry David Thoreau
"None are so old as those who have outlived enthusiasm." -Henry David Thoreau
"Die Einfachheit und Nacktheit des primitiven Menschen hatte wenigstens den Vorteil, daß er sich in der Natur als Gast fühlte. War er durch Nahrung und Schlaf erquickt, dann dachte er wieder ans Weiterziehen. Er lebte in der Welt gleichsam wie in einem Zelt, durchstreifte die Täler, überquerte die Ebenen oder kletterte auf Berge. Aber die Menschen haben sich zu Werkzeugen ihrer Werkzeuge gemacht! Der Mensch, der sich frei und unabhängig Beeren pflückte, wenn er hungrig war, ist Farmer geworden, und der einst unter einem Baum Schutz suchte, Hausbesitzer. Wir schlagen nicht mehr für eine Nacht unser Zelt auf, sondern haben uns auf der Erde ansässig gemacht und den Himmel vergessen. Wir haben die christliche Kultur angenommen, doch nur als verbesserte Methode der Agri-Kultur. Wir haben für diese Welt ein Familienhaus und für die andere ein Familiengrab errichtet." -Henry David Thoreau
"Keep pace with the drummer you hear, however measured or far away." -Henry David Thoreau
"I desire that there may be as many different persons in the world as possible; but I would have each one be very careful to find out and pursue his own way, and not his father's or his mother's or his neighbor's instead." -Henry David Thoreau
"Lieber als Liebe, als Geld, als Ruhm gebt mir Wahrheit. Ich saß an einem Tische, wo feine Weine und Speisen im Überfluss vorhanden waren, wo man mich sorgsam bediente, wo es aber keine Aufrichtigkeit und Wahrheit gab. Hungrig verließ ich ihren ungastlichen Tisch. Die Gastfreundschaft war so kalt wie das Gefrorene." -Henry David Thoreau
"I find it wholesome to be alone the greater part of the time. To be in company, even with the best, is soon wearisome and dissipating. I love to be alone. I never found the companion that was so companionable as solitude. We are for the most part more lonely when we go abroad among men than when we stay in our chambers." -Henry David Thoreau
"But while we are confined to books, though the most select and classic, and read only particular written languages, which are themselves but dialects and provincial, we are in danger of forgetting the language in which all things and events speak without metaphor, which alone is copious and standard. Much is published, but little printed. The rays which stream through the shutter will be no longer remembered when the shutter is wholly removed. No method nor discipline can supersede the necessity of being forever on the alert. What is a course of history, or philosophy, or poetry, no matter how well selected, or the best society, or the most admirable routine of life, compared with the discipline of looking always at what is to be seen? Will you be a reader, a student merely, or a seer? Read your fate, see what is before you, and walk on into futurity." -Henry David Thoreau
"I do not wish to quarrel with any man or nation. I do not wish to split hairs, to make fine distinctions, or set myself up as better than my neighbors. I seek rather, I may say, even an excuse for conforming to the laws of the land. I am but too ready to conform to them." -Henry David Thoreau
"Yet I experienced sometimes that the most sweet and tender, the most innocent and encouraging society may be found in any natural object, even for the poor misanthrope and most melancholy man. There can be no very black melancholy to him who lives in the midst of Nature and has his senses still. There was never yet such a storm but it was Æolian music to a healthy and innocent ear. Nothing can rightly compel a simple and brave man to a vulgar sadness. While I enjoy the friendship of the seasons I trust that nothing can make life a burden to me." -Henry David Thoreau
"Public opinion is a weak tyrant compared with our own private opinion. What a man thinks of himself, that it is which determines, or rather indicates, his fate." -Henry David Thoreau
"Yet this government never of itself furthered any enterprise, but by the alacrity with which it got out of its way. It does not keep the country free. It does not settle the West. It does not educate. The character inherent in the American people has done all that has been accomplished; and it would have done somewhat more, if the government had not sometimes got in its way." -Henry David Thoreau
"We should impart our courage, and not our despair, our health and ease, and not our disease, and take care that this does not spread by contagion ..." -Henry David Thoreau
"Every part of nature teaches that the passing away of one life is the making room for another. The oak dies down to the ground, leaving within its rind a rich virgin mould, which will impart a vigorous life to an infant forest. The pine leaves a sandy and sterile soil, the harder woods a strong and fruitful mould. So this constant abrasion and decay makes the soil of my future growth. As I live now so shall I reap. If I grow pines and birches, my virgin mould will not sustain the oak; but pines and birches, or, perchance, weeds and brambles, will constitute my second growth." -Henry David Thoreau
"Nay, be a Columbus to whole new continents and worlds within you, opening new channels, not of trade, but of thought. Every man is the lord of a realm beside which the earthly empire of the Czar is but a petty state, a hummock left by the ice. Yet some can be patriotic who have no self-respect, and sacrifice the greater to the less. They love the soil which makes their graves, but have no sympathy with the spirit which may still animate their clay. Patriotism is a maggot in their heads." -Henry David Thoreau
"As I love nature, as I love singing birds...I love thee, my friend." -Henry David Thoreau
"They who suspect a Mephistophiles, or sneering, satirical devil, under all, have not learned the secret of true humor, which sympathizes with gods themselves, in view of their grotesque, half-finished creatures." -Henry David Thoreau
"You must get your living by loving, or at least half your life is a failure." -Henry David Thoreau
"Soon the ice will melt, and the blackbirds sing along the river which he frequented, as pleasantly as ever. The same everlasting serenity will appear in this face of God, and we will not be sorrowful, if he is not." -Henry David Thoreau
"A howling wilderness does not howl: it is the imagination of the traveler that does the howling. -" -Henry David Thoreau
"It is not enought to be busy, so are the ants. The question is: What are we busy about?" -Henry David Thoreau
"I hear beyond the range of sound, I see beyond the range of sight, New earths, and skies and seas around. --" -Henry David Thoreau
"Shall we always study to obtain more of these things, and not sometimes to be content with less?" -Henry David Thoreau
"The incessant anxiety and strain of some is a well-nigh incurable form of disease. We are made to exaggerate the importance of what work we do...How vigilant we are! determined not live by faith if we can avoid it; all the day long on the alert, at night we unwillingly say our prayers and commit ourselves to uncertainties." -Henry David Thoreau
"Perhaps these pages are more particularly addressed to poor students. As for the rest of my readers, they will accept such portions as apply to them. I trust that none will stretch the seams in putting on the coat, for it may do good service to him whom it fits. " -Henry David Thoreau
"We are a race of tit-men..." -Henry David Thoreau
"on the morning of many a first spring day...the woods were bathed in so pure and bright a light as would have waked the dead. There needs no stronger proof of immortality." -Henry David Thoreau
"I am not responsible for the successful working of the machinery of society. I am not the son of the engineer. I perceive that, when an acorn and a chestnut fall side by side, the one does not remain inert to make way for the other, but both obey their own laws, and spring and grow and flourish as best they can, till one, perchance, overshadows and destroys the other. If a plant cannot live according to nature, it dies; and so a man." -Henry David Thoreau
"If you are cheated out of a single dollar by your neighbor, you do not rest satisfied with knowing that you are cheated, or with saying that you are cheated, or even with petitioning him to pay you your due; but you take effectual steps at once to obtain the full amount, and see that you are never cheated again." -Henry David Thoreau
"I am thinking by what long discipline and at what cost a man learns to speak simply at last." -Henry David Thoreau
"Philanthropy is almost the only virtue which is sufficiently appreciated by mankind. Nay, it is overrated; and it is our selfishness which overrates it." -Henry David Thoreau
"No very black melencholy can come to he who lives in the midst of nature and has his senses still....." -Henry David Thoreau
"For I believe that climate does thus react on man--as there is something in the mountain air that feeds the spirit and inspires." -Henry David Thoreau
"Alone in distant woods or fields, in unpretending sprout lands or pastures tracked by rabbits, even in a bleak and, to most, cheerless day like this, when a villager would be thinking of his inn, I come to myself. I once more feel myself grandly related. This cold and solitude are friends of mine." -Henry David Thoreau
"There is but little virtue in the action of masses of men. When the majority shall at length vote for the abolition of slavery, it will be because they are indifferent to slavery, or because there is but little slavery left to be abolished by their vote.  will then be the only slaves." -Henry David Thoreau
"AN ARTIST IS FIRST AN AMATEUR" -Henry David Thoreau
"To have done anything just for money is to have been truly idle." -Henry David Thoreau
"How can any man be weak who dares to be at all?" -Henry David Thoreau
"Whatever have been thy failures hitherto, 'be not afflicted, my child, for who shall assign to thee what thou hast left undone?' We" -Henry David Thoreau
"A man, any man, will go considerably out of his way to pick up a silver dollar; but here are golden words, which the wisest men of antiquity have uttered, and whose worth the wise of every succeeding age have assured us of; -- and yet we learn to read only as far as Easy Reading, the primers and class-books, and when we leave school, the 'Little Reading,' and story-books, which are for boys and beginners; and our reading, our conversation and thinking, are all on a very low level, worthy only of pygmies and manikins." -Henry David Thoreau
"lET HIM MARCH TO THE MUSIC HE HEARS" -Henry David Thoreau
"Never trust any thought arrived at sitting down." -Henry David Thoreau
"We commonly do not remember that it is … always the first person that is speaking." -Henry David Thoreau
"The seasons and all their changes are in me." -Henry David Thoreau
"The cart before the horse is neither beautiful nor useful. Before we can adorn our houses with beautiful objects the walls must be stripped, and our lives must be stripped, and beautiful housekeeping and beautiful living be laid for a foundation; now, a taste for the beautiful is most cultivated out of doors, where there is no house and no housekeeper." -Henry David Thoreau
"One generation abandons the enterprises of another like stranded vessels." -Henry David Thoreau
"For if the truth were known, Love cannot speak, But only thinks and does; Though surely out 'twill leak Without the help of Greek, Or any tongue." -Henry David Thoreau
"Quanto ad adottare le soluzioni offerte dallo Stato per portare rimedio al male - io, quelle soluzioni, non le conosco: richiedono troppo tempo e un uomo morirebbe prima di riuscire a metterle in atto. Ho altre cose cui badare. Venni al mondo non principalmente per trasformarlo in un luogo buono dove vivere ma per vivervi, buono o cattivo che fosse. Un uomo non deve fare tutto, ma qualche cosa; e poiché tutto non lo può fare, non è necessario che faccia qualcosa di sbagliato." -Henry David Thoreau
"The silence rings--it is musical & thrills me. A night in which the silence was audible--I hear the unspeakable." -Henry David Thoreau
"Certi miei amici parlavano come se fossi venuto nei boschi per morire di freddo. L'animale si fa semplicemente un letto, in qualche luogo riparato, e lo riscalda con il suo corpo; ma l'uomo, che ha scoperto il fuoco, invece di togliersi il proprio calore rinchiude una quantità d'aria in una stanza ampia e la riscalda; fa di questa il suo letto, dove può muoversi senza i panni più pesanti; conserva una specie di estate nel cuore del1'inverno; per mezzo di una finestra, fa persino entrare la luce, e finalmente prolunga il giorno servendosi di una lampada. Così egli va un passo o due oltre l'istinto, e risparmia un po' di tempo per le belle arti. Sebbene il mio corpo cominciasse a intorpidirsi se rimanevo esposto per lungo tempo alle più violente bufere, non appena rientravo nella piacevole atmosfera della mia casa ricuperavo le facoltà e prolungavo così la vita." -Henry David Thoreau
"But alone in distant woods or fields, I come to myself, I once more feel myself grandly related, and that cold and solitude are friends of mine. I suppose that this value, in my case, is equivalent to what others get by churchgoing and prayer." -Henry David Thoreau
"On Ponkawtasset, since, we took our way,Down this still stream we took our meadowy way,A poet wise has settled, whose fine rayDoth faintly shine on Concord's twilight day.Like those first stars, whose silver beams on high,Shining more brightly as the day goes by,Most travellers cannot at first descry,But eyes that wont to range the evening sky,And know celestial lights, do plainly see,And gladly hail them, numbering two or three;For lore that's deep must deeply studied be,As from deep wells men read star-poetry.These stars are never pal'd, though out of sight,But like the sun they shine forever bright;Aye, they are suns, though earth must in its flightPut out its eyes that it may see their light.Who would neglect the least celestial sound,Or faintest light that falls on earthly ground,If he could know it one day would be foundThat star in Cygnus whither we are bound,And pale our sun with heavenly radiance round?" -Henry David Thoreau
"I please myself with imagining a State at last which can afford to be just to all men, and to treat the individual with respect as a neighbor; which even would not think it inconsistent with its own repose if a few were to live aloof from it, not meddling with it, nor embraced by it, who fulfilled all the duties of neighbors and fellow men. A State which bore this kind of fruit, and suffered it to drop off as fast as it ripened, would prepare the way for a still more perfect and glorious State, which I have also imagined, but not yet anywhere seen." -Henry David Thoreau
"Now comes good sailing." -Henry David Thoreau
"Our inventions are wont to be pretty toys which distract our attention from serious things. They are but improved means to an unimproved end, an end which it was already but too easy to arrive at." -Henry David Thoreau
"In short, I am convinced, both by faith and experience, that to maintain one's self on this earth is not a hardship but a pastime, if we will live simply and wisely; as the pursuits of the simpler nations are still the sports of the more artificial. It is not necessary that a man should earn his living by the sweat of his brow, unless he sweats easier than I do." -Henry David Thoreau
"Every man casts a shadow; not his body only, but his imperfectly mingled spirit. This is his grief. Let him turn which way he will, it falls opposite to the sun; short at noon, long at eve. Did you never see it?" -Henry David Thoreau
"This cold and solitude are friends of mine." -Henry David Thoreau
"I was determined to know beans. When they were growing, I used to hoe from five o'clock in the morning till noon, and commonly spent the rest of the day about other affairs. Consider the intimate and curious acquaintance one makes with various kinds of weeds--it will bear some iteration in the account, for there was no little iteration in the labor--disturbing their delicate organizations so ruthlessly, and making such invidious distinctions with his hoe, levelling whole ranks of one species, and sedulously cultivating another. That's Roman wormwood--that's pigweed--that's sorrel--that's piper-grass--have at him, chop him up, turn his roots upward to the sun, don't let him have a fibre in the shade, if you do he'll turn himself t' other side up and be as green as a leek in two days. A long war, not with cranes, but with weeds, those Trojans who had sun and rain and dews on their side. Daily the beans saw me come to their rescue armed with a hoe, and thin the ranks of their enemies, filling up the trenches with weedy dead. Many a lusty crest--waving Hector, that towered a whole foot above his crowding comrades, fell before my weapon and rolled in the dust." -Henry David Thoreau
"Thu luxury of one class is counterbalanced by the indigence of another." -Henry David Thoreau
"No man ever stood the lower in my estimation for having a patch in his clothes; yet I am sure that there is greater anxiety commonly to have fashionable, or at least clean and unpatched clothes, than to have a sound conscience. [...] I sometimes try my acquaintances by such tests as this,--Who could wear a patch, or two extra seams only, over the knee? Most behave as if they believed that their prospects for life would be ruined if they should do it [...] for he considers, not what is truly respectable, but what is respected." -Henry David Thoreau
"We talk of civilizing the Indian, but that is not the name for his improvement. By the wary independence and aloofness of his dim forest life he preserves his intercourse with his native gods, and is admitted from time to time to a rare and peculiar society with Nature. He has glances of starry recognition to which our saloons are strangers. The steady illumination of his genius, dim only because distant, is like the faint but satisfying light of the stars compared with the dazzling but ineffectual and short-lived blaze of candles." -Henry David Thoreau
"Who hears the fishes when they cry?" -Henry David Thoreau
"I never knew, and never shall know, a worse man than myself." -Henry David Thoreau
"The forcible writer stands bodily behind his words with his experiences. He does not make books out of books, but he has been there in person." -Henry David Thoreau
"This life is not for complaint, but for satisfaction." -Henry David Thoreau
"The mass of men lead lives of quiet desperation and go to the grave with the song still in them." -Henry David Thoreau
"Người ta hỏi một nhà thông thái rằng, trong số nhiều cây nổi tiếng mà Chúa toàn năng đã tạo thành những cây cao bóng cả, không có cây nào được gọi là azad, hay tự do, ngoài cây bách là cây không quả, có bí mật gì trong chuyện này không?Nhà thông thái trả lời, mỗi cây có một sản phẩm thích hợp và có mùa thích hợp với nó, đúng mùa thì nó tươi tốt và ra hoa, trái mùa thì nó khô vàng và héo tàn, cây bách không ở trong hai trạng thái này, vì nó lúc nào cũng xanh tươi, và bản chất của nó là azad, hay tự do tín ngưỡng.Đừng gắn trái tim bạn với cái gì nhất thời; vì con sông Dijlah, hay Tigris, sẽ tiếp tục chảy qua Bagdad sau khi nòi giống các vua Hồi đã tuyệt diệt; nếu bạn giàu có, hãy hào phóng; nhưng nếu không có gì để cho, hãy là 1 azad, hay 1 người tự do, giống như cây bách." -Henry David Thoreau
"Friendship is first, Friendship last. But it is equally impossible to forget our Friends, and to make them answer to our ideal. When they say farewell, then indeed we begin to keep them company. How often we find ourselves turning our backs on our actual Friends, that we may go and meet their ideal cousins. I would that I were worthy to be any man's Friend." -Henry David Thoreau
"But I would say to my fellows, once for all, As long as possible live free and uncommitted." -Henry David Thoreau
"The morning, which is the most memorable season of the day, is the awakening hour. Then there is least somnolence in us; and for an hour, at least, some part of us awakes that slumbers all the rest of the day and night. Little is to be expected of that day, if it can be called a day, to which we are not awakened by our Genius, but by the mechanical nudgings of some servitor, are not awakened by our own newly acquired force and aspirations from within.... After a partial cessation of his sensuous life, the soul of man, or its organs rather, are reinvigorated each day, and his Genius tries again what noble life it can make... The Vedas say, 'All intelligences awake with the morning.' All poets and heroes, like Memnon, are the children of Aurora, and emit their music at sunrise." -Henry David Thoreau
"Our village life would stagnate if it were not for the unexplored forests and meadows that surround it. We need the tonic of wildness..." -Henry David Thoreau
"There is no such thing as accomplishing a righteous reform by the use of 'expediency.' There is no such thing as sliding up hill. In morals, the only sliders are backsliders." -Henry David Thoreau
"To a philosopher all news, as it is called, is gossip, and they who edit and read it are old women over their tea." -Henry David Thoreau
"Nowadays almost all man's improvements, so called, as the building of houses, and the cutting down of the forest and of all large trees, simply deform the landscape, and make it more tame and cheap... and some worldly miser with a surveyor looking after his bounds, while heaven had taken place around him, and he did not see the angles going to and fro, but was looking for an old post-hole in the midst of paradise. I looked again, and saw him standing in the middle of a boggy, stygian, fen, surrounded by devils, and he had found his bounds without a doubt, three little stones, where a stake had been driven, and looking nearer, I saw that the prince of Darkness was his surveyor. " -Henry David Thoreau
"I cannot but think that if we had more true wisdom in these respects, not only less education would be needed, because, forsooth, more would already have been acquired, but the pecuniary expense of getting an education would in a great measure vanish. Those conveniences which the student requires at Cambridge or elsewhere cost him or somebody else ten times as great a sacrifice of life as they would with proper management on both sides. Those things for which the most money is demanded are never the things which the student most wants. Tuition, for instance, is an important item in the term bill, while for the far more valuable education which he gets by associating with the most cultivated of his contemporaries no charge is made." -Henry David Thoreau
"No man ever followed his genius till it misled him. Though the result were bodily weakness, yet perhaps no one can say that the consequences were to be regretted, for these were a life in conformity to higher principles." -Henry David Thoreau
"I am wont to think that men are not so much the keepers of herds as herds are the keepers of men. The former are so much the freer." -Henry David Thoreau
"No man loses ever on a lower level by magnanimity on a higher. Superfluous wealth can buy superfluities only. Money is not required to buy one necessary of the soul." -Henry David Thoreau
"The white man comes, pale as the dawn, with a load of thought, with a slumbering intelligence as a fire raked up, knowing well what he knows, not guessing but calculating; strong in community, yielding obedience to authority; of experienced race; of wonderful, wonderful common sense; dull but capable, slow but persevering, severe but just, of little humor but genuine; a laboring man, despising game and sport; building a house that endures, a framed house. He buys the Indian's moccasins and baskets, then buys his hunting-grounds, and at length forgets where he is buried and plows up his bones." -Henry David Thoreau
"Old trees are our parents, and our parents' parents, perchance. If you would learn the secrets of Nature, you must practice more humanity than others." -Henry David Thoreau
"If we would aim at perfection in any thing, simplicity must not be overlooked." -Henry David Thoreau
"The millions are awake enough for physical labor; but only one in a million is awake enough for effective intellectual exertion, only one in a hundred millions to a poetic or divine life. To be awake is to be alive. I have never yet met a man who was quite awake. How could I have looked him in the face?" -Henry David Thoreau
"Say what you have to say, not what you ought. Any truth is better than make-believe." -Henry David Thoreau
"We have heard of a Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge. It is said that knowledge is power, and the like. Methinks there is equal need of a Society for the Diffusion of Useful Ignorance, what we will call Beautiful Knowledge, a knowledge useful in a higher sense: for what is most of our boasted so-called knowledge but a conceit that we know something, which robs us of the advantage of our actual ignorance? What we call knowledge is often our positive ignorance; ignorance our negative knowledge." -Henry David Thoreau
"One may almost doubt if the wisest man has learned anything of absolute value by living." -Henry David Thoreau
"The twelve labors of Hercules were trifling in comparison with those which my neighbors have undertaken; for they were only twelve, and had an end; but I could never see that these men slew or captured any monster or finished any labor." -Henry David Thoreau
"In Literature it is only the wild that attracts us." -Henry David Thoreau
"If you can speak what you will never hear,--if you can write what you will never read, you have done rare things" -Henry David Thoreau
"What sort of cultivation, or civilization and improvement, is ours to boast of, if it turns out that, as in this instance, unhandselled nature is worth more even by our modes of valuation than our improvements are,--if we leave the land poorer than we found it?" -Henry David Thoreau
"How can we expect a harvest of thought who have not had a seed-time of character?" -Henry David Thoreau
"But worst of all when you are the slave-driver of yourself" -Henry David Thoreau
"Trade and commerce, if they were not made of India-rubber, would never manage to bounce over the obstacles which legislators are continually putting in their way." -Henry David Thoreau
"He understood, as he would write in 'Walking,' that 'the hero is commonly the simplest and obscurest of men." -Henry David Thoreau
"Still we live meanly like ants." -Henry David Thoreau
"Notwithstanding much cant and hypocrisy--chaff which I find it difficult to separate from my wheat, but for which I am as sorry as any man--I will breathe freely and stretch myself in this respect, it is such a relief to both the moral and physical system; and I am resolved that I will not through humility become the devil's attorney. I will endeavor to speak a good word for the truth." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is not all books that are as dull as their readers. There are probably words addressed to our condition exactly, which, if we could really hear and understand, would be more salutary than the morning or the spring to our lives, and possibly put a new aspect on the face of things for us. How many a man has dated a new era in his life from the reading of a book! The book exists for us, perchance, which will explain our miracles and reveal new ones. The at present unutterable things we may find somewhere uttered." -Henry David Thoreau
"Those who have not learned to read the ancient classics in the language in which they were written must have a very imperfect knowledge of the history of the human race; for it is remarkable that no transcript of them has ever been made into any modern tongue, unless our civilization itself may be regarded as such a transcript. Homer has never yet been printed in English, nor Æschylus, nor Virgil even--works as refined, as solidly done, and as beautiful almost as the morning itself; for later writers, say what we will of their genius, have rarely, if ever, equalled the elaborate beauty and finish and the lifelong and heroic literary labors of the ancients. They only talk of forgetting them who never knew them. It will be soon enough to forget them when we have the learning and the genius which will enable us to attend to and appreciate them. That age will be rich indeed when those relics which we call Classics, and the still older and more than classic but even less known Scriptures of the nations, shall have still further accumulated, when the Vaticans shall be filled with Vedas and Zendavestas and Bibles, with Homers and Dantes and Shakespeares, and all the centuries to come shall have successively deposited their trophies in the forum of the world. By such a pile we may hope to scale heaven at last." -Henry David Thoreau
"Men frequently say to me, 'I should think you would feel lonesome down there, and want to be nearer to folks, rainy and snowy days and nights especially.' I am tempted to reply to such--This whole earth which we inhabit is but a point in space. How far apart, think you, dwell the two most distant inhabitants of yonder star, the breadth of whose disk cannot be appreciated by our instruments? Why should I feel lonely? is not our planet in the Milky Way? This which you put seems to me not to be the most important question. What sort of space is that which separates a man from his fellows and makes him solitary? I have found that no exertion of the legs can bring two minds much nearer to one another. What do we want most to dwell near to? Not to many men surely, the depot, the post-office, the bar-room, the meeting-house, the school-house, the grocery, Beacon Hill, or the Five Points, where men most congregate, but to the perennial source of our life, whence in all our experience we have found that to issue, as the willow stands near the water and sends out its roots in that direction. This will vary with different natures, but this is the place where a wise man will dig his cellar…" -Henry David Thoreau
"Shams and delusions are esteemed for soundest truths, while reality is fabulous. If men would steadily observe realities only, and not allow themselves to be deluded, life, to compare it with such things as we know, would be like a fairy tale. If we respected only what is inevitable and has a right to be, music and poetry would resound along the streets. When we are unhurried and wise, we perceive that only great and worthy things have any permanent and absolute existence, ---that petty fears and petty pleasures are but the shadow of the reality. This is always exhilarating and sublime." -Henry David Thoreau
"Death is beautiful when seen to be a law, and not an accident. It is as common as life." -Henry David Thoreau
"For my part, I could easily do without the post-office. I think that there are very few important communications made through it. To speak critically, I never received more than one or two letters in my life--I wrote this some years ago--that were worth the postage. The penny-post is, commonly, an institution through which you seriously offer a man that penny for his thoughts which is so often safely offered in jest. And I am sure that I never read any memorable news in a newspaper. If we read of one man robbed, or murdered, or killed by accident, or one house burned, or one vessel wrecked, or one steamboat blown up, or one cow run over on the Western Railroad, or one mad dog killed, or one lot of grasshoppers in the winter--we never need read of another. One is enough. If you are acquainted with the principle, what do you care for a myriad instances and applications?" -Henry David Thoreau
"Consider what stuff history is made of, -- that for the most part it is merely a story agreed on by posterity." -Henry David Thoreau
"I don't want to feel as if my life were a sojourn any longer. That philosophy cannot be true which so paints it. It is time now that I begin to live." -Henry David Thoreau
"I too had woven a kind of basket of a delicate texture, but I had not made it worth any one's while to buy them. Yet not the less, in my case, did I think it worth my while to weave them, and instead of studying how to make it worth men's while to buy my baskets, I studied rather how to avoid the necessity of selling them." -Henry David Thoreau
"Let us rise early and fast, or breakfast, gently and without perturbation; let company come and let company go, let the bells ring and the children cry-determined to make a day of it. Why should we knock under and go with the stream?" -Henry David Thoreau
"What is there in music that it should so stir our deeps? We are all ordinarily in a state of desperation; such is our life; ofttimes it drives us to suicide. To how many, perhaps to most, life is barely tolerable, and if it were not for the fear of death or of dying, what a multitude would immediately commit suicide! But let us hear a strain of music, we are at once advertised of a life which no man had told us of, which no preacher preaches. Suppose I try to describe faithfully the prospect which a strain of music exhibits to me. The field of my life becomes a boundless plain, glorious to tread, with no death nor disappointment at the end of it. All meanness and trivialness disappear. I become adequate to any deed. No particulars survive this expansion; persons do not survive it. In the light of this strain there is no thou nor I. We are actually lifted above ourselves." -Henry David Thoreau
". . . in Wildness is the preservation of the World." -Henry David Thoreau
"A puritan may go to his brown-bread crust with as gross an appetite as ever an alderman to his turtle. Not that food which entereth into the mouth defileth a man, but the appetite with which it is eaten. It is neither the quality nor the quantity, but the devotion to sensual savors;" -Henry David Thoreau
"Be sure that you give the poor the aid they most need, though it be your example which leaves them far behind. If you give money, spend yourself with it, and do not merely abandon it to them." -Henry David Thoreau
"The repugnance to animal food is not the effect of experience, but it is instinct." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is true, I never assisted the sun materially in his rising, but, doubt not, it was of the last importance only to be present at it." -Henry David Thoreau
"If it is necessary, omit one bridge over the river, go round a little there, and throw one arch at least over the darker gulf of ignorance which surrounds us." -Henry David Thoreau
"Under a government which imprisons unjustly, the true place for a just man is also a prison." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is there that the fugitive slave, and the Mexican prisoner on parole, and the Indian come to plead the wrongs of his race should find them; on that separate but more free and honorable ground, where the State places those who are not with her, but against her--the only house in a slave State in which a free man can abide with honor." -Henry David Thoreau
"I am sure that there is greater anxiety, commonly, to have fashionable, or at least clean and unpatched clothes, than to have a sound conscience." -Henry David Thoreau
"and instead of studying how to make it worth men's while to buy my baskets, I studied rather how to avoid the necessity of selling them." -Henry David Thoreau
"I know of no redeeming qualities in me but a sincere love for some things, and when I am reproved I have to fall back on to this ground. This is my argument in reserve for all cases ... When I am condemned, and condemn myself utterly, I think straightway, 'But I rely on my love for some things.' Therein I am whole and entire." -Henry David Thoreau
"Not that food which entereth into the moth defileth a man, but the appetite with which it is eaten. It is neither the quality nor the quantity, but the devotion to sensual savors; when that which is eaten is not a viand to sustain our animal, or inspire our spiritual life, but food for the worms that possess us." -Henry David Thoreau
"Nothing so fair, so pure, and at the same time so large, as a lake, perchance, lies on the surface of the earth." -Henry David Thoreau
"I learned this, at least, by my experiment: that if one advances confidently in the direction of his dreams, and endeavors to live the life which he has imagined, he will meet with a success unexpected in common hours. He will put some things behind, will pass an invisible boundary; new, universal, and more liberal laws will begin to establish themselves around and within him; or the old laws be expanded, and interpreted in his favor in a more liberal sense, and he will live with the license of a higher order of beings. In proportion as he simplifies his life, the laws of the universe will appear less complex, and solitude will not be solitude, nor poverty poverty, nor weakness weakness. If you have built castles in the air, your work need not be lost; that is where they should be. Now put the foundations under them." -Henry David Thoreau
"He had been instructed only in that innocent and ineffectual way in which the Catholic priests teach the aborigines, by which the pupil is never educated to the degree of consciousness, but only to the degree of trust and reverence, and a child is not made a man, but kept a child. When" -Henry David Thoreau
"Methinks that the moment my legs begin to move, my thoughts begin to flow." -Henry David Thoreau
"He was so genuine and unsophisticated that no introduction would serve to introduce him, more than if you introduced a woodchuck to your neighbor." -Henry David Thoreau
"When a man is warmed by the several modes which I have described, what does he want next? Surely not more warmth of the same kind, as more and richer food, larger and more splendid houses, finer and more abundant clothing, more numerous, incessant, and hotter fires, and the like. When he has obtained those things which are necessary to life, there is another alternative than to obtain the superfluities; and that is, to adventure on life now." -Henry David Thoreau
"for the people must have some complicated machinery or other, and hear its din, to satisfy that idea of government which they have." -Henry David Thoreau
"We are made to exaggerate the importance of what work we do; and yet how much is not done by us!" -Henry David Thoreau
"Real power is measured by how much you can let things be." -Henry David Thoreau
"if injustice, is of such a nature that it requires you to be the agent of injustice to another, then, I say, break the law. Let your life be a counter friction to stop the machine." -Henry David Thoreau
"The truly efficient laborer will be found not to crowd his day with work, but will saunter to his task surrounded by a wide halo of ease and leisure." -Henry David Thoreau
"There is on the earth no institution which Friendship has established; it is not taught by any religion; no scripture contains its maxims. It has no temple nor even a solitary column...However, out fates at least are social. Our courses do not diverge; but as the web of destiny is woven it is fulled, and we are cast more and more into the centre. Men naturally, though feebly, seek this alliance, and their actions faintly foretell it. We are inclined to lay the chief stress on likeness and not on difference, and in foreign bodies we admit that there are many degrees of warmth below blood heat, but none of cold above it." -Henry David Thoreau
"An unclean person is universally a slothful one." -Henry David Thoreau
"They required to be dusted daily, when the furniture of my mind was all undusted still." -Henry David Thoreau
"I find it so difficult to dispose of the few facts which to me are significant, that I hesitate to burden my attention with those which are insignificant" -Henry David Thoreau
"Thus the great civilizer sends out its emissaries, sooner or later, to every sandy cape and light-house of the New World which the census-taker visits, and summons the savage there to surrender." -Henry David Thoreau
"We are but faint-hearted crusaders...our expeditions are but tours...half the walk is but retracing our steps. We should go forth on the shortest walks, perchance, in the spirit of stirring adventure, never to return, --prepared to send back our embalmed hearts only as relics to our desolate kingdoms...if you have paid your debts and made your will, and settled all your affairs, and are a free man, then you are ready for a walk." -Henry David Thoreau
"Così i governi ci dimostrano quanto facilmente gli uomini possano essere ingannati e persino autoingannarsi nel proprio interesse." -Henry David Thoreau
"To be a philosopher is not merely to have subtle thoughts, nor even to found a school, but so to love wisdom as to live according to its dictates, a life of simplicity, independence, magnanimity, and trust. It is to solve some of the problems of life, not only theoretically, but practically. The success of great scholars and thinkers is commonly a courtier-like success, not kingly, not manly. They make shift to live merely by conformity, practically as their fathers did, and are in no sense the progenitors of a nobler race of men." -Henry David Thoreau
"This spending of the best part of one's life earning money in order to enjoy a questionable liberty during the least valuable part of it" -Henry David Thoreau
"We might climb a tree, at least." -Henry David Thoreau
"This man is still a fisher, and belongs to an era in which I myself have lived. Perchance he is not confounded by many knowledges, and has not sought out many inventions, but how to take many fishes before the sun sets, with slender birchen pole and flaxen line, that is invention enough for him." -Henry David Thoreau
"I like sometimes to take rank hold on life and spend my day more as the animals do." -Henry David Thoreau
"I love a broad margin to my life. Sometimes, in a summer morning, having taken my accustomed bath, I sat in my sunny doorway from sunrise till noon, rapt in a revery, amidst the pines and hickories and sumachs, in undisturbed solitude and stillness, while the birds sing around or flitted noiseless through the house, until by the sun falling in at my west window, or the noise of some traveller's wagon on the distant highway, I was reminded of the lapse of time. I grew in those seasons like corn in the night, and they were far better than any work of the hands would have been. They were not time subtracted from my life, but so much over and above my usual allowance. I realized what the Orientals mean by contemplation and the forsaking of works. For the most part, I minded not how the hours went. The day advanced as if to light some work of mine; it was morning, and lo, now it is evening, and nothing memorable is accomplished. Instead of singing like the birds, I silently smiled at my incessant good fortune. As the sparrow had its trill, sitting on the hickory before my door, so had I my chuckle or suppressed warble which he might hear out of my nest. My days were not days of the week, bearing the stamp of any heathen deity, nor were they minced into hours and fretted by the ticking of a clock; for I lived like the Puri Indians, of whom it is said that 'for yesterday, today, and tomorrow they have only one word, and they express the variety of meaning by pointing backward for yesterday forward for tomorrow, and overhead for the passing day.' This was sheer idleness to my fellow-townsmen, no doubt; but if the birds and flowers had tried me by their standard, I should not have been found wanting. A man must find his occasions in himself, it is true. The natural day is very calm, and will hardly reprove his indolence." -Henry David Thoreau
"that in their sacrifices to humanity they ran no risks, not even to their property; that after all they were not so noble but they treated the thief as he had treated them, and hoped, by a certain outward observance and a few prayers, and by walking in a particular straight though useless path from time to time, to save their souls. This may be to judge my neighbors harshly; for I believe that many of them are not aware that they have such an institution as the jail in their village." -Henry David Thoreau
"There is no more Herculean task than to think a thought about this life and then get it expressed." -Henry David Thoreau
"I had three pieces of limestone on my desk, but I was terrified to find that they required to be dusted daily, when the furniture of my mind was all undusted still, and threw them out the window in disgust. How, then, could I have a furnished house? I would rather sit in the open air, for no dust gathers on the grass, unless where man has broken ground." -Henry David Thoreau
"What right has the unclean and stupid farmer, whose farm abutted on this sky water, whose shores he has ruthlessly laid bare, to give his name to it? Some skinflint, who loved better the reflecting surface of a dollar, or a bright cent, in which he could see his own brazen face; who regarded even the wild ducks which settled in it as trespassers; his fingers grown into crooked and horny talons from the long habit of grasping harpy-like; so it is not named for me. I go not there to see him nor to hear of him; who never saw it, who never bathed in it, who never loved it, who never protected it, who never spoke a good word for it, nor thanked God that He had made it. Rather let it be named from the fishes that swim in it, the wild fowl or quadrupeds which frequent it, the wild flowers which grow by its shores, or some wild man or child the thread of whose history is interwoven with its own; not from him who could show no title to it but the deed which a like-minded neighbor or legislature gave him--him who thought only of its money value." -Henry David Thoreau
"Is it not a reproach that man is a carnivorous animal? True, he can and does live, in a great measure, by preying on other animals; but this is a miserable way - as anyone who will go to snaring rabbits, or slaughtering lambs, may learn - and he shall be regarded as a benefactor of his race who shall teach man to confine himself to a more innocent and wholesome diet. Whatever my own practice may be, I have no doubt that it is part of the destiny of the human race, in its gradual improvement, to leave off eating animals, as surely the savage tribes have left off eating each other when they came in contact with the more civilized." -Henry David Thoreau
"A single farm-house which I had not seen before is sometimes as good as the dominions of the King of Dahomey. There is in fact a sort of harmony discoverable between the capabilities of the landscape within a circle of ten miles' radius, or the limits of an afternoon walk, and the threescore years and ten of human life. It will never become quite familiar to you." -Henry David Thoreau
"Our doubts are so musical that they persuade themselves." -Henry David Thoreau
"Simplicity, simplicity, simplicity! I say, let your affairs be as two or three, and not a hundred or a thousand; instead of a million count half a dozen, and keep your accounts on your thumb-nail. In the midst of this chopping sea of civilized life, such are the clouds and storms and quicksands and thousand-and-one items to be allowed for, that a man has to live, if he would not founder and go to the bottom and not make his port at all, by dead reckoning, and he must be a great calculator indeed who succeeds. Simplify, simplify. Instead of three meals a day, if it be necessary eat but one; instead of a hundred dishes, five; and reduce other things in proportion. Our life is like a German Confederacy, made up of petty states, with its boundary forever fluctuating, so that even a German cannot tell you how it is bounded at any moment. The nation itself, with all its so-called internal improvements, which, by the way are all external and superficial, is just such an unwieldy and overgrown establishment, cluttered with furniture and tripped up by its own traps, ruined by luxury and heedless expense, by want of calculation and a worthy aim, as the million households in the land; and the only cure for it, as for them, is in a rigid economy, a stern and more than Spartan simplicity of life and elevation of purpose. It lives too fast. Men think that it is essential that the Nation have commerce, and export ice, and talk through a telegraph, and ride thirty miles an hour, without a doubt, whether they do or not; but whether we should live like baboons or like men, is a little uncertain. If we do not get out sleepers, and forge rails, and devote days and nights to the work, but go to tinkering upon our lives to improve them, who will build railroads? And if railroads are not built, how shall we get to heaven in season? But if we stay at home and mind our business, who will want railroads? We do not ride on the railroad; it rides upon us." -Henry David Thoreau
"With respect to wit, I learned that there was not much difference between the half and the whole." -Henry David Thoreau
"After a night's sleep the news is as indispensable as the breakfast. 'Pray tell me anything new that has happened to a man anywhere on this globe'--and he reads it over his coffee and rolls, that a man has had his eyes gouged out this morning on the Wachito River; never dreaming the while that he lives in the dark unfathomed mammoth cave of this world, and has but the rudiment of an eye himself." -Henry David Thoreau
"No man with a genius for legislation has appeared in America. They are rare in the history of the world." -Henry David Thoreau
"What if we feel a yearning to which no breast answers? I walk alone. My heart is full. Feelings impede the current of my thoughts. I knock on the earth for my friend. I expect to meet him at every turn; but no friend appears, and perhaps none is dreaming of me." -Henry David Thoreau
"With a little more deliberation in the choice of their pursuits, all men would perhaps become essentially students and observers, for certainly their nature and destiny are interesting to all alike." -Henry David Thoreau
"When the far mountains are invisible, the near ones look the higher." -Henry David Thoreau
"did not for a moment feel confined, and the walls seemed a great waste of stone and mortar." -Henry David Thoreau
"The trees and shrubs rear white arms to the sky on every side; and where were walls and fences, we see forms stretching in frolic gambols across the dusky landscape, as if Nature had strewn her fresh designs over the fields by night as models for man's art." -Henry David Thoreau
"Sure there are poets which did never dreamUpon Parnassus, nor did taste the stream Of Helicon; we therefore may suppose Those made not poets, but the poets those." -Henry David Thoreau
"Go confidently in the direction of your dreams. Live the life you've imagined." -Henry David Thoreau
"Pursue some path, however narrow and crooked, in which you can walk with love and reverence. Wherever a man separates from the multitude and goes his own way, there is a fork in the road, though the travelers along the highway see only a gap in the paling." -Henry David Thoreau
"My life flows with a deeper current, no longer as a shallow and brawling stream, parched and shrunken by the summer heats. My heart leaps into my mouth at the sound of the wind in the woods. I, whose life was but yesterday so desultory and shallow, suddenly recover my spirits, my spirituality, through my hearing. For joy I could embrace the earth ... I have occasion to be grateful for the flood of life that is flowing over me. I am not so poor." -Henry David Thoreau
"Open all your pores and bathe in all the tides of nature, in all her streams and oceans, at all seasons." -Henry David Thoreau
"Live free, child of the mist--and with respect to knowledge we are all children of the mist." -Henry David Thoreau
"This people must cease to hold slaves, and to make war on Mexico, though it cost them their existence as a people." -Henry David Thoreau
"We are accustomed to say in New England that few and fewer pigeons visit us every year. Our forests furnish no mast for them. So, it would seem, few and fewer thoughts visit each growing man from year to year, for the grove in our minds is laid waste, -- sold to feed unnecessary fires of ambition, or sent to mill, and there is scarcely a twig left for them to perch on. They no longer build nor breed with us. In some more genial season, perchance, a faint shadow flits across the landscape of the mind, cast by the  of some thought in its vernal or autumnal migration, but, looking up, we are unable to detect the substance of the thought itself. Our winged thoughts are turned to poultry. They no longer soar…." -Henry David Thoreau
"It seems as if no man had ever died in America before, for in order to die you must first have lived. These men, in teaching us how to die, have at the same time taught us how to live." -Henry David Thoreau
"Alles, was unserer körperlichen Ernährung und Pflege dient, lassen wir uns mehr kosten als unsere geistige Ernährung." -Henry David Thoreau
"One is enough. If you are acquainted with the principle, what do you care for a myriad instances and applications?" -Henry David Thoreau
"When the subject has refused allegiance and the officer has resigned his office, then the revolution is accomplished." -Henry David Thoreau
"Our manners have been corrupted by communication with the saints. Our hymn-books resound with a melodious cursing of God and enduring Him forever. One would say that even the prophets and redeemers had rather consoled the fears than confirmed the hopes of man. There is nowhere recorded a simple and irrepressible satisfaction with the gift of life, any memorable praise of God." -Henry David Thoreau
"Morning brings back the heroic ages." -Henry David Thoreau
"By all kinds of traps and sign-boards, threatening the extreme penalty of the divine law, exclude such trespassers from the only ground which can be sacred to you. It is so hard to forget what it is worse than useless to remember! If I am to be a thoroughfare, I prefer that it be of the mountain-brooks, the Parnassian streams, and not the town-sewers. There is inspiration, that gossip which comes to the ear of the attentive mind from the courts of heaven. There is the profane and stale revelation of the bar-room and the police court. The same ear is fitted to receive both communications. Only the character of the hearer determines to which it shall be open, and to which closed. I believe that the mind can be permanently profaned by the habit of attending to trivial things, so that all our thoughts shall be tinged with triviality. Our very intellect shall be macadamized, as it were,--its foundation broken into fragments for the wheels of travel to roll over; and if you would know what will make for the most durable pavement, surpassing rolled stones, spruce blocks, and asphaltum, you have only to look into some of our minds which have been subjected to this treatment so long." -Henry David Thoreau
"How can he remember well his ignorance--which his growth requires--who has so often to use his knowledge?" -Henry David Thoreau
"There is but little virtue in the action of masses of men." -Henry David Thoreau
"Undoubtedly the very tedium and ennui which presume to have exhausted the variety and the joys of life are as old as Adam." -Henry David Thoreau
"I should not talk so much about myself if there were anybody else whom I knew as well. Unfortunately, I am confined to this theme by the narrowness of my experience." -Henry David Thoreau
"Individuals, like nations, must have suitable broad and natural boundaries, even a considerable neutral ground, between them." -Henry David Thoreau
"Not without a slight shudder at the danger, I often perceive how near I had come to admitting into my mind the details of some trivial affair- the news of the street; and I am astonished to observe how willing men are to lumber their minds with such rubbish- to permit idle rumors and incidents of the most insignificant kind to intrude on ground which should be sacred to thought. Shall the mind be a public arena, where the affairs of the street and the gossip of the tea-table chiefly are discussed? Or shall it be a quarter of heaven itself- an hypaethral temple, consecrated to the service of the gods? I find it so difficult to dispose of the few facts which to me are significant, that I hesitate to burden my attention with those which are insignificant, which only a divine mind could illustrate. Such is, for the most part, the news in newspapers and conversation. It is important to preserve the mind's chastity in this respect. Think of admitting the details of a single case of the criminal court into our thoughts, to stalk profanely through their very sanctum sanctorum for an hour, ay, for many hours! to make a very bar-room of the mind's inmost apartment, as if for so long the dust of the street had occupied us- the very street itself, with all its travel, its bustle, and filth, had passed through our thoughts' shrine! Would it not be an intellectual and moral suicide?" -Henry David Thoreau
"I cannot tell you what I am, more than a ray of the summer's sun. What I am I am, and say not. Being is the great explainer." -Henry David Thoreau
"The doctors are all agreed that I am suffering from want of society. Was never a case like it. First, I did not know that I was suffering at all. Secondly, as an Irishman might say, I had thought it was indigestion of the society I got." -Henry David Thoreau
"I am alarmed when it happens that I have walked a mile into the woods bodily, without getting there in spirit. In my afternoon walk I would fain forget all my morning occupations and my obligations to Society. But it sometimes happens that I cannot easily shake off the village. The thought of some work will run in my head and I am not where my body is -- I am out of my senses. In my walks I would fain return to my senses. What business have I in the woods, if I am thinking of something out of the woods?" -Henry David Thoreau
"There are none happy in the world but beings who enjoy freely a vast horizon'--said Damodara," -Henry David Thoreau
"Actually, the laboring man has not leisure for a true integrity day by day; he cannot afford to sustain the manliest relations to men; his labor would be depreciated in the market. He has no time to be anything but a machine." -Henry David Thoreau
"I do not value any view of the universe into which man and the institutions of man enter very largely and absorb much of the attention. Man is but the place where I stand, and the prospect hence is infinite." -Henry David Thoreau
"Penso che dovremmo essere uomini prima di essere sudditi. Non è da augurarsi che l'uomo coltivi il rispetto per le leggi ma piuttosto che rispetti ciò che è giusto." -Henry David Thoreau
"We go eastward to realize history, and study the works of art and literature, retracing the steps of the race; we go westward as into the future, with a spirit of enterprise and adventure. The Atlantic is a Lethan stream, in our passage over which we have had an opportunity to forget the Old World and its institutions." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is in vain to dream of a wildness distant from ourselves. There is none such. It is in the bog in our brains and bowels, the primitive vigour of Nature in us, that inspires that dream. I shall never find in the wilds of Labrador any greater wildness than in some recess of Concord, i.e. than I import into it." -Henry David Thoreau
"Nature does not cast pearls before swine. There is just as much beauty visible to us in the landscape as we are prepared to appreciate,--not a grain more." -Henry David Thoreau
"We must learn to reawaken and keep ourselves awake, not by mechanical aids, but by an infinite expectation of the dawn." -Henry David Thoreau
"The commonest sense is the sense of men asleep, which they express by snoring." -Henry David Thoreau
"If you would get exercise, go in search of the springs of life." -Henry David Thoreau
"I was always conscious of sounds in nature which my ears could never hear,--that I caught but the prelude to a strain. She always retreats as I advance. Away behind and behind is she and her meaning. Will not this faith and expectation make to itself ears at length?" -Henry David Thoreau
"The indescribable innocence and beneficence of Nature-of sun and wind and rain, of summer and winter-such health, such cheer, they afford forever! and such sympathy have they ever with our race, that all Nature would be affected, and the sun's brightness fade, and the winds would sigh humanely, and the clouds rain tears, and the woods shed their leaves and put on mourning in midsummer, if anyone should ever for a just cause grieve. Shall I not have intelligence with the earth? Am I not partly leaves and vegetable mould myself?" -Henry David Thoreau
"The mass of men lead lives of quiet desperation. What is called resignation is confirmed desperation." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is remarkable that, notwithstanding the universal favor with which the New Testament is outwardly received, and even the bigotry with which it is defended, there is no hospitality shown to, there is no appreciation of, the order of truth with which it deals." -Henry David Thoreau
"Writing your name can lead to writing sentences. And the next thing you'll be doing is writing paragraphs, and then books. And then you'll be in as much trouble as I am!" -Henry David Thoreau
"The simple style is bad for the savage because he does worse than to obtain the luxuries of life; it is good for the philosopher because he does better than to work for them. The question is whether you can bear freedom...." -Henry David Thoreau
"If a state is governed by the principles of reason, poverty and misery are subjects of shame; if a state is not governed by the principles of reason, riches and honors are subjects of shame.' No:" -Henry David Thoreau
"Unjust laws exist; shall we be content to obey them? Or shall we endeavor to amend them and obey them until we have succeeded? Or shall we transgress them at once? -- 1849 Essay on Civil Disobedience." -Henry David Thoreau
"Some things are really necessaries of life in some circles, the most helpless and diseased, which in others are luxuries merely, and in others still entirely unknown." -Henry David Thoreau
"The only government that I recognize,--and it matters not how few are at the head of it, or how small its army,--is that power that establishes justice in the land, never that which establishes injustice. What shall we think of a government to which all the truly brave and just men in the land are enemies, standing between it and those whom it oppresses? A government that pretends to be Christian and crucifies a million Christs every day!" -Henry David Thoreau
"Simplicity, simplicity, simplicity! I say, let your affairs be as two or three, and not a hundred or a thousand; instead of a million count half a dozen, and keep your accounts on your thumbnail. In the midst of this chopping sea of civilized life, such are the clouds and storms and quicksands and thousand-and-one items to be allowed for, that a man has to live." -Henry David Thoreau
"Two thousand summers have imparted to the monuments of Grecian literature, as to her marbles, only a maturer golden and autumnal tint, for they have carried their own serene and celestial atmosphere into all lands to protect them against the corrosion of time." -Henry David Thoreau
"Most men, even in this comparatively free country, through mere ignorance and mistake, are so occupied with the factitious cares and superfluously coarse labors of life that its finer fruits cannot be plucked by them. Their fingers, from excessive toil, are too clumsy and tremble too much for that. Actually, the laboring man has not leisure for a true integrity day by day; he cannot afford to sustain the manliest relations to men; his honor would be depreciated in the market. He has no time to be anything but a machine." -Henry David Thoreau
"There are old heads in the world who cannot help me by their example or advice to live worthily and satisfactorily to myself; but I believe that it is in my power to elevate myself this very hour above the common level of my life." -Henry David Thoreau
"La masse des hommes sert l'État de la sorte, pas en tant qu'hommes, mais comme des machines, avec leurs corps. Ils forment l'armée de métier, ainsi que la milice, les geôliers, policiers, posse comitatus, etc. Dans la plupart des cas, il n'existe aucun libre exercice du jugement ou du sens moral ; mais ils se mettent au niveau du bois, de la terre et des pierres ; et l'on pourrait réaliser des hommes de bois qui rempliraient aussi bien cette fonction." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is not the tailor alone who is the ninth part of a man; it is as much the preacher, and the merchant, and the farmer. Where is this division of labor to end? and what object does it finally serve?" -Henry David Thoreau
"We have no festival, nor procession, nor ceremony, not excepting our cattle-shows and so-called Thanksgivings, by which the farmer expresses a sense of the sacredness of his calling, or is reminded of its sacred origin. It is the premium and the feast which tempt him. He sacrifices not to Ceres and the Terrestrial Jove, but to the infernal Plutus rather. By avarice and selfishness, and a grovelling habit, from which none of us is free, of regarding the soil as property, or the means of acquiring property chiefly, the landscape is deformed, husbandry is degraded with us, and the farmer leads the meanest of lives. He knows Nature but as a robber." -Henry David Thoreau
"Girls and boys and young women generally seemed glad to be in the woods. They looked in the pond and at the flowers, and improved their time. Men of business, even farmers, thought only of solitude and employment, and of the great distance at which I dwelt from something or other; and though they said that they loved a ramble in the woods occasionally, it was obvious that they did not." -Henry David Thoreau
"That man who does not believe that each day contains an earlier, more sacred, and auroral hour than he has yet profaned, has despaired of life, and is pursuing a descending and darkening way.All memorable events ... transpire in morning time and in a morning atmosphere. The Vedas say 'All intelligences awake in the morning.' Poetry and art, and the fairest and most memorable of the actions of men, date from such an hour.Walden" -Henry David Thoreau
"We are wont to imagine rare and delectable places in some remote and more celestial corner of the system, behind the constellation of Cassiopeia's Chair, far from noise and disturbance. I discovered that my house actually had its site in such a withdrawn, but forever new and unprofaned, part of the universe." -Henry David Thoreau
"To read well, that is, to read true books in a true spirit, is a noble exercise..." -Henry David Thoreau
"When he read James Wilkinson's book The Human Body in 1851, Thoreau was impressed. 'Wilkinson's book,' he wrote in his journal, 'to some extent realizes what I have dreamed of, -a return to the primitive analogical and derivative sense of words. His ability to trace analogies often leads to a truer word than more remarkable writers have found.... The faith he puts in old and current expressions as having sprung from an instinct wiser than science, and safely to be trusted if they can be interpreted.... Wilkinson finds a home for the imagination.... All perception of truth is the detection of an analogy; we reason from our hands to our heads." -Henry David Thoreau
"In my house we were so near that we could not begin to hear -- we could not speak low enough to be heard; as when you throw two stones into calm water so near that they break each other's undulations." -Henry David Thoreau
"That government is best that governs not at all." -Henry David Thoreau
"Says I to myself' should be the motto of my journal. It is fatal to the writer to be too much possessed by his thought. Things must lie a little remote to be described." -Henry David Thoreau
"No puedo creer que nuestro sistema industrial sea el mejor modo por el que podamos vestirnos. La condición de los obreros se parece cada día más a la de los ingleses y no hay que sorprenderse, ya que, por lo que he oído y observado, el objetivo principal no es que la humanidad esté bien y honestamente vestida, sino, indudablemente, que las corporaciones se enriquezcan." -Henry David Thoreau
"I am of the nature of Stone. It takes the summer's sun to warm it." -Henry David Thoreau
"A man who has at length found something to do will not need to get a new suit to do it in; for him the old will do, that has lain dusty in the garret for an indeterminate period. Old shoes will serve a hero longer than they have served his valet--if a hero ever has a valet--bare feet are older than shoes, and he can make them do. Only they who go to soirées and legislative balls must have new coats, coats to change as often as the man changes in them. But if my jacket and trousers, my hat and shoes, are fit to worship God in, they will do; will they not? Who ever saw his old clothes--his old coat, actually worn out, resolved into its primitive elements, so that it was not a deed of charity to bestow it on some poor boy, by him perchance to be bestowed on some poorer still, or shall we say richer, who could do with less? I say, beware of all enterprises that require new clothes, and not rather a new wearer of clothes. If there is not a new man, how can the new clothes be made to fit? If you have any enterprise before you, try it in your old clothes. All men want, not something to do with, but something to do, or rather something to be." -Henry David Thoreau
"My dwelling was small, and I could hardly entertain an echo in it; but it seemed larger for being a single apartment and remote from neighbors. All the attractions of a house were concentrated in one room; it was kitchen, chamber, parlor, and keeping-room; and whatever satisfaction parent or child, master or servant, derive from living in a house, I enjoyed it all. Cato says, the master of a family (patremfamilias) must have in his rustic villa 'cellam oleariam, vinariam, dolia multa, uti lubeat caritatem expectare, et rei, et virtuti, et gloriae erit,' that is, 'an oil and wine cellar, many casks, so that it may be pleasant to expect hard times; it will be for his advantage, and virtue, and glory.' I had in my cellar a firkin of potatoes, about two quarts of peas with the weevil in them, and on my shelf a little rice, a jug of molasses, and of rye and Indian meal a peck each. I sometimes dream of a larger and more populous house, standing in a golden age, of enduring materials, and without gingerbread work, which shall still consist of only one room, a vast, rude, substantial, primitive hall, without ceiling or plastering, with bare rafters and purlins supporting a sort of lower heaven over one's head--useful to keep off rain and snow, where the king and queen posts stand out to receive your homage, when you have done reverence to the prostrate Saturn of an older dynasty on stepping over the sill; a cavernous house, wherein you must reach up a torch upon a pole to see the roof; where some may live in the fireplace, some in the recess of a window, and some on settles, some at one end of the hall, some at another, and some aloft on rafters with the spiders, if they choose; a house which you have got into when you have opened the outside door, and the ceremony is over; where the weary traveller may wash, and eat, and converse, and sleep, without further journey; such a shelter as you would be glad to reach in a tempestuous night, containing all the essentials of a house, and nothing for house-keeping; where you can see all the treasures of the house at one view, and everything hangs upon its peg, that a man should use; at once kitchen, pantry, parlor, chamber, storehouse, and garret; where you can see so necessary a thing, as a barrel or a ladder, so convenient a thing as a cupboard, and hear the pot boil, and pay your respects to the fire that cooks your dinner, and the oven that bakes your bread, and the necessary furniture and utensils are the chief ornaments; where the washing is not put out, nor the fire, nor the mistress, and perhaps you are sometimes requested to move from off the trap-door, when the cook would descend into the cellar, and so learn whether the ground is solid or hollow beneath you without stamping. A house whose inside is as open and manifest as a bird's nest, and you cannot go in at the front door and out at the back without seeing some of its inhabitants; where to be a guest is to be presented with the freedom of the house, and not to be carefully excluded from seven eighths of it, shut up in a particular cell, and told to make yourself at home there--in solitary confinement. Nowadays the host does not admit you to his hearth, but has got the mason to build one for yourself somewhere in his alley, and hospitality is the art of keeping you at the greatest distance. There is as much secrecy about the cooking as if he had a design to poison you. I am aware that I have been on many a man's premises, and might have been legally ordered off, but I am not aware that I have been in many men's houses. I might visit in my old clothes a king and queen who lived simply in such a house as I have described, if I were going their way; but backing out of a modern palace will be all that I shall desire to learn, if ever I am caught in one." -Henry David Thoreau
"How could youths better learn to live than by at once trying the experiment of living?" -Henry David Thoreau
"I have never found a companion that was so companionable as solitude." -Henry David Thoreau
"En tuant le temps on blesse l'éternité." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is not so important that many should be good as you, as that there be some absolute goodness somewhere; for that will leaven the whole lump." -Henry David Thoreau
"Society is commonly too cheap." -Henry David Thoreau
"My purpose in going to Walden Pondwas not to live cheaply nor to live dearly therebut to transact some private business,with the fewest obstacles…It's a good place for business...it offers advantageswhich it may not be good policy to divulge." -Henry David Thoreau
"I walk out into a Nature such as the old prophets and poets, Manu, Moses, Homer, Chaucer, walked in. You may name it America, but it is not America: neither Americus Vespucius, nor Columbus, nor the rest were the discoverers of it. There is a truer account of it in mythology than in any history of America, so called, that I have seen." -Henry David Thoreau
"How godlike, how immortal, is he?" -Henry David Thoreau
"I could not help being struck with the foolishness of that institution which treated me as if I were mere flesh and blood and bones, to be locked up. I wondered that it should have concluded at length that this was the best use it could put me to, and had never thought to avail itself of my services in some way." -Henry David Thoreau
"There were times when I could not afford to sacrifice the bloom of the present moment to any work, whether of the head or hands. I love a broad margin to my life." -Henry David Thoreau
"Heaven might be defined as the place which men avoid." -Henry David Thoreau
"The unconsciousness of man is the consciousness of God." -Henry David Thoreau
"I saw that the State was half-witted, that it was timid as a lone woman with her silver spoons, and that it did not know its friends from its foes, and I lost all my remaining respect for it, and pitied it." -Henry David Thoreau
"Say what you have to say, not what you ought." -Henry David Thoreau
"Beauty and true wealth are always thus cheap and despised. Heaven might be defined as the place which men avoid." -Henry David Thoreau
"I cannot come nearer to God and HeavenThan I live to Walden even.I am its stony shore,And the breeze that passes o'er;In the hollow of my handAre its water and its sand,And its deepest resortLies high in my thought." -Henry David Thoreau
"One may be drunk with love without being any nearer to finding his mate...Love must be as much a light as a flame." -Henry David Thoreau
"Hard and steady and engrossing labor with the hands, especially out of doors, is invaluable to the literary man and serves him directly." -Henry David Thoreau
"I was describing the other day my success in solitary and distant woodland walking outside the town. I do not go there to get my dinner, but to get that sustenance which dinners only preserve me to enjoy, without which dinners are a vain repetition." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is surprising how many great men and women a small house will contain. I have had twenty-five or thirty souls, with their bodies, at once under my roof, and yet we often parted without being aware that we had come very near to one another." -Henry David Thoreau
"As yesterday and the historical ages are past, as the work of today is present, so some flitting perspectives and demi-experiences of the life that is in nature are in time veritably future, or rather outside to time, perennial, young, divine, in the wind and rain which never die." -Henry David Thoreau
"English literature, from the days of the minstrels to the Lake Poets--Chaucer and Spenser and Milton, and even Shakespeare, included--breathes no quite fresh and, in this sense, wild strain. It is an essentially tame and civilized literature, reflecting Greece and Rome. … Where is the literature which gives expression to Nature?...I do not know of any poetry to quote which adequately expresses this yearning for the Wild....The West is preparing to add its fables to those of the East. The valleys of the Ganges, the Nile, and the Rhine having yielded their crop, it remains to be seen what the valleys of the Amazon, the Plate, the Orinoco, the St. Lawrence, and the Mississippi will produce." -Henry David Thoreau
"Those who, while they disapprove of the character and measures of a government, yield to it their allegiance and support are undoubtedly its most conscientious supporters, and so frequently the most serious obstacles to reform." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is not a man's duty, as a matter of course, to devote himself to the eradication of any, even the most enormous, wrong; he may still properly have other concerns to engage him; but it is his duty, at least, to wash his hands of it, and, if he gives it no thought longer, not to give it practically his support. If I devote myself to other pursuits and contemplations, I must first see, at least, that I do not pursue them sitting upon another man's shoulders." -Henry David Thoreau
"Every day or two I strolled to the village to hear some of the gossip which is incessantly going on there, circulating either from mouth to mouth, or from newspaper to newspaper, and which, taken in homeopathic doses, was really as refreshing in its way as the rustle of leaves and the peeping of frogs." -Henry David Thoreau
"I stopped short in the path today to admire how the trees grow up without forethought regardless of the time and circumstances. They do not wait as men do--now is the golden age of the sapling--Earth, air, sun, and rain, are occasion enough." -Henry David Thoreau
"Quelle flamme pourrait égaler le rayon de soleil d'un jour d'hiver ?" -Henry David Thoreau
"Men, generally, under such a government as this, think that they ought to wait until they have persuaded the majority to alter them. They think that, if they should resist, the remedy would be worse than the evil. But it is the fault of the government itself that the remedy is worse than the evil. It makes it worse. Why is it not more apt to anticipate and provide for reform? Why does it not cherish its wise minority? Why does it cry and resist before it is hurt? Why does it not encourage its citizens to put out its faults, and do better than it would have them? Why does it always crucify Christ and excommunicate Copernicus and Luther, and pronounce Washington and Franklin rebels?" -Henry David Thoreau
"What other words, we may almost ask, are memorable and worthy to be repeated than those which love has inspired? It is wonderful that they were ever uttered. They are few and rare indeed, but, like a strain of music, they are incessantly repeated and modulated by memory. All other words crumble off with the stucco which overlies the heart. We should not dare to repeat these now aloud. We are not competent to hear them at all times. " -Henry David Thoreau
"Government is at best but an expedient; but most governments are usually, and all governments are sometimes, inexpedient." -Henry David Thoreau
"That government is best which governs least'; and I should like to see it acted up to more rapidly and systematically. Carried out, it finally amounts to this, which also I believe--'That government is best which governs not at all'; and" -Henry David Thoreau
"it is a characteristic of wisdom not to do desperate things." -Henry David Thoreau
"Hay mil podando las ramas del mal por uno que golpea en la raíz, y puede que aquel que otorgue la mayor cantidad de tiempo y de dinero a los necesitados sea el que más haga con su modo de vida para producir la miseria que trata de aliviar en vano. Sería como el piadoso dueño de esclavos que dedica las ganancias del décimo esclavo a comprar la libertad de un domingo para los demás. Algunos muestran su amabilidad con los pobres empleándolos en sus cocinas. ¿No serían más amables si se emplearan allí a sí mismos? Os jactáis de gastar la décima parte de vuestros ingresos en la caridad; tal vez deberíais gastar las nueve décimas partes y acabar con ella. La sociedad recupera entonces sólo una décima parte de la propiedad. ¿Se debe a la generosidad del que la posee o a la negligencia de los oficiales de justicia?" -Henry David Thoreau
"There is a low mist in the woods--It is a good day to study lichens." -Henry David Thoreau
"When we want culture more than potatoes, and illumination more than sugar-plums, then the great resources of a world are taxed and drawn out, and the result, or staple production, is, not slaves, nor operatives, but men- those rare fruits called heroes, saints, poets, philosophers, and redeemers." -Henry David Thoreau
"What we call knowledge is often our positive ignorance; ignorance our negative knowledge." -Henry David Thoreau
"If it were worth the while to settle in those parts near to the Pleiades or the Hyades, to Aldebaran or Altair, then I was really there, or at an equal remoteness from the life which I had left behind, dwindled and twinkling with as fine a ray to my nearest neighbor, and to be seen only in moonless nights by him. Such was that part of creation where I had squatted;" -Henry David Thoreau
"In the long run men hit only what they aim at. Therefore, though they should fail immediately, they had better aim at something high." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is remarkable how easily and insensibly we fall into a particular route, and make a beaten track for ourselves...The surface of the earth is soft and impressible by the feet of men and so with the paths which the mind travels." -Henry David Thoreau
"The tavern will compare favorably with the church." -Henry David Thoreau
"We may not arrive at our port within a calculable period, but we would preserve the true course." -Henry David Thoreau
"The true husbandman will cease from anxiety, as the squirrels manifest no concern whether the woods will bear chestnuts this year or not, and finish his labor with every day, relinquishing all claim to the produce of his fields, and sacrificing in his mind not only his first but his last fruits also." -Henry David Thoreau
"If then, we would indeed restore mankind by truly botanic, magnetic, or natural means, let us first be as simple and well as Nature ourselves, dispel the clouds which hang over our brows, and take up a little life into our pores. Do not stay to be an overseer of the poor, but endeavor to become of the worthies of the world." -Henry David Thoreau
"What is man but a mass of thawing clay? The ball of the human finger is but a drop congealed. The fingers and toes flow to their extent from the thawing mass of the body. Who knows what the human body would expand and flow out to under a more genial heaven? Is not the hand a spreading  leaf with its lobes and veins? The ear may be regarded, fancifully, as a lichen, , on the side of the head, with its lobe or drop. The lip--, from  (?)--laps or lapses from the sides of the cavernous mouth. The nose is a manifest congealed drop or stalactite. The chin is a still larger drop, the confluent dripping of the face. The cheeks are a slide from the brows into the valley of the face, opposed and diffused by the cheek bones. Each rounded lobe of the vegetable leaf, too, is a thick and now loitering drop, larger or smaller; the lobes are the fingers of the leaf; and as many lobes as it has, in so many directions it tends to flow, and more heat or other genial influences would have caused it to flow yet farther." -Henry David Thoreau
"Just so hollow and ineffectual, for the most part, is our ordinary conversation. Surface meets surface. When our life ceases to be inward and private, conversation degenerates into mere gossip. We rarely meet a man who can tell us any news which he has not read in a newspaper, or been told by his neighbor; and, for the most part, the only difference between us and our fellow is, that he has seen the newspaper, or been out to tea, and we have not. In proportion as our inward life fails, we go more constantly and desperately to the post-office. You may depend on it, that the poor fellow who walks away with the greatest number of letters, proud of his extensive correspondence, has not heard from himself this long while." -Henry David Thoreau
"I think that I cannot preserve my health and spirits, unless I spend four hours a day at least--and it is commonly more than that--sauntering through the woods and over the hills and fields, absolutely free from all worldly engagements." -Henry David Thoreau
"Throw one arch at least over the darker gulf of ignorance which surrounds us." -Henry David Thoreau
"I have known such joys the likes of which might have inspired a Homer or a Shakespeare." -Henry David Thoreau
"Most men would feel insulted if it were proposed to employ them in throwing stones over a wall, and then throwing them back again, merely that they might earn their wages. But many are no more worthily employed now." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is to be remembered that by good deeds or words you encourage yourself, who always have need to witness or hear them." -Henry David Thoreau
"A broad margin of leisure is as beautiful in a man's life as in a book. Haste makes waste, no less in life than in housekeeping. Keep the time, observe the hours of the universe, not of the cars." -Henry David Thoreau
"We go eastward to realize history and study the works of art and literature, retracing the steps of the race; we go westward as into the future, with a spirit of enterprise and adventure." -Henry David Thoreau
"However mean your life is, meet it and live it; do not shun it and call it hard names. It is not so bad as you are. It looks poorest when you are richest. The fault-finder will find faults even in paradise. Love your life, poor as it is. You may perhaps have some pleasant, thrilling, glorious hours, even in a poorhouse. The setting sun is reflected from the windows of the almshouse as brightly as from the rich man's abode; the snow melts before its door as early in the spring. I do not see but a quiet mind may live as contentedly there, and have as cheering thoughts, as in a palace. The town's poor seem to me often to live the most independent lives of any." -Henry David Thoreau
"The world is but a canvas to our imagination" -Henry David Thoreau
"The ways by which you get money almost without exception lead downward" -Henry David Thoreau
"But I retained the landscape, and I have since annually carried off what it yielded without a wheelbarrow." -Henry David Thoreau
"If some have the pleasure of riding on a rail, others have the misfortune to be ridden upon." -Henry David Thoreau
"I walk out into a nature such as the old prophets and poets, Menu, Moses, Homer, Chaucer, walked in." -Henry David Thoreau
"I saw it throwing off its nightly clothing of mist, and here and there, by degrees, its soft ripples or its smooth reflecting surface was revealed." -Henry David Thoreau
"Le meilleur gouvernement est celui qui ne gouverne pas du tout; et quand les hommes y seront prêts, tel sera le genres de gouvernement qu'ils auront. Un gouvernement, au mieux, n'est qu'un expédient ; mais la plupart d'entre eux sont d'habitude, et tous les gouvernements sont quelquefois nuisibles." -Henry David Thoreau
"Ce qu'un homme pense de lui-même, voilà ce qui règle ou plutôt indique son destin." -Henry David Thoreau
"Confucius said, 'To know that we know what we know, and that we do not know what we do not know, that is true knowledge." -Henry David Thoreau
"One cannot too soon forget his errors and misdemeanors." -Henry David Thoreau
"Is not this the broad earth still?" -Henry David Thoreau
"Farewell, my friends, my path inclines to this side the mountain, yours to that. We are no longer the representatives of our former selves." -Henry David Thoreau
"I do not wish to flatter my townsmen, nor to be flattered by them, for that will not advance either of us." -Henry David Thoreau
"I do not propose to write an ode to dejection, but to brag as lustily as chanticleer in the morning, standing on his roost, if only to wake my neighbors up." -Henry David Thoreau
"Did you ever think what those sleepers are that underlie the railroad? Each one is a man, an Irishman, or a Yankee man. The rails are laid on them, and they are covered with sand, and the cars run smoothly over them. They are sound sleepers, I assure you. And every few years a new lot is laid down and run over; so that, if some have the pleasure of riding on a rail, others have the misfortune to be ridden upon." -Henry David Thoreau
"vi har så travlt med at anlægge en magnetisk telegraf fra maine til texas; men måske har maine og texas ikke noget af vigtighed at meddele hinanden" -Henry David Thoreau
"I heartily accept the motto, 'That government is best which governs least'; and I should like to see it acted up to more rapidly and systematically. Carried out, it finally amounts to this, which also I believe--'That government is best which governs not at all'; and when men are prepared for it, that will be the kind of government which they will have." -Henry David Thoreau
"Tenía tres sillas en mi casa; una para la soledad, dos para la amistad, tres para la compañía" -Henry David Thoreau
"The portionless, who struggle with no such unnecessary inherited encumbrances, find it labor enough to subdue and cultivate a few cubic feet of flesh." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is never too late to give up our prejudices." -Henry David Thoreau
"I make it my business to extract from Nature whatever nutriment she can furnish me, though at the risk of endless iteration. I milk the sky and the earth." -Henry David Thoreau
"If I have unjustly wrested a plank from a drowning man, I must restore it to him though I drown myself." -Henry David Thoreau
"By the words 'necessary of life' I mean whatever, of all that man obtains by his own exertions, has been from the first, or from long use has become, so important to human life that few, if any, ever attempt to do without it. To many creatures there is in this sense but one necessary of life, Food. The necessaries of life for man in this climate may, accurately enough, be distributed under the several heads of Food, Shelter, Clothing, and Fuel; for not till we have secured these are we prepared to entertain the true problems of life with freedom and a prospect of success." -Henry David Thoreau
"You can always see a face in the fire. The laborer, looking into it at evening, purifies his thoughts of the dross and earthiness which they have accumulated during the day." -Henry David Thoreau
"One may almost doubt if the wisest man has learned anything of absolute value by living. Practically, the old have no very important advice to give the young, their own experience has been so partial, and their lives have been such miserable failures, for private reasons, as they must believe; and it may be that they have some faith left which belies that experience, and they are only less young than they were. I have lived some thirty years on this planet, and I have yet to hear the first syllable of valuable or even earnest advice from my seniors. They have told me nothing, and probably cannot tell me anything to the purpose. Here is life, an experiment to a great extent untried by me; but it does not avail me that they have tried it. If I have any experience which I think valuable, I am sure to reflect that this my Mentors said nothing about." -Henry David Thoreau
"A wise man has doubts even in his best moments. Real truth is always accompanied by hesitations. If I could not hesitate, I could not believe." -Henry David Thoreau
"How many a man has dated a new era in his life from the reading of a book! The book exists for us, perchance, which will explain our miracles and reveal new ones. The at present unutterable things we may find somewhere uttered." -Henry David Thoreau
"¡La laguna de Flint! Nuestra nomenclatura es pobre. ¿Qué derecho tenía el sucio y estúpido granjero, cuya granja lindaba con esta agua celestial, a darle su nombre tras haber desnudado sin piedad sus riberas? No es para mi el nombre de un avaro que prefería la resplandeciente superficie de un dólar o de un centavo nuevo, en la que podía ver su propia cara dura; que consideraba intrusos a los mismos patos salvajes que anidaban allí y cuyos dedos habían crecido hasta convertirse en garras curvas y callosas por el hábito de agarrar las cosas como una arpía. No voy allí a ver ni a oír hablar de alguien que nunca ha 'visto' (palabra enfatizada en cursiva) la laguna, ni se ha bañado en ella, ni la ha amado, ni protegido, ni pronunciado una palabra a su favor, ni agradecido a Dios que la creara. Démosle más bien el nombre de los peces que nadan en ella, de las aves salvajes o los cuadrúpedos que la frecuentan, de las flores silvestres que crecen en sus orillas o de algún hombre o niño salvaje cuya historia se haya entretejido con la de la laguna, no el de aquel que no podría mostrar otro título que el hecho de que otro vecino de mentalidad semejante o la cámara legislativa se lo hayan otorgado a él, que sólo pensaba en su valor monetario y cuya presencia ha sido nefasta para la orilla, que esquilmó la tierra a su alrededor y habría agotado el agua, que lamentaba que no fuera una pradera de heno inglés o de arándanos. A su parecer, nada había que salvar en la laguna y la habría drenado y venido por el légamo del fondo. La laguna no movía su molino ni era, para él, un privilegio contemplarla. No respeto su trabajo ni su granja, donde todo está tasado. Ese hombre sería capaz de llevar el paisaje y a su Dios y al mercado si pudiera obtener algo a cambio; su Dios es el mercado, por eso va allí; nada crece libremente en su granja: sus campos no dan cosechas, sus prados no dan flores, sus árboles no dan fruto, sino dólares. No ama la belleza de sus frutos; sus frutos no están maduros para él hasta que se convierten en dólares." -Henry David Thoreau
"What avails it that another loves you, if he does not understand you? Such love is a curse." -Henry David Thoreau
"If I wished to see a mountain or other scenery under the most favorable auspices, I would go to it in foul weather, so as to be there when it cleared up; we are then in the most suitable mood, and nature is most fresh and inspiring. There is no serenity so fair as that which is just established in a tearful eye." -Henry David Thoreau
"I should say that [John Brown] was an old-fashioned man in his respect for the Consitution, and his faith in the permanence of this Union. Slavery he deemed to be wholly opposed to these, and he was its determined foe." -Henry David Thoreau
"Yesterday I was influenced with the rottenness of human relations. They appeared full of death and decay, and offended the nostrils." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is a surprising and memorable, as well as valuable experience, to be lost in the woods any time." -Henry David Thoreau
"This was sheer idleness to my fellow-townsmen, no doubt; but if the birds and flowers had tried me by their standard, I should not have been found wanting. A man must find his occasions in himself, it is true. The natural day is very calm, and will hardly reprove his indolence." -Henry David Thoreau
"We must go out and re-ally ourselves to Nature every day. We must make root, send out some little fibre at least, even every winter day. I am sensible that I am imbibing health when I open my mouth to the wind. Staying in the house breeds a sort of insanity always. Every house is in this sense a hospital." -Henry David Thoreau
"Many times I thought that if the particular tree, commonly an elm, under which I was walking or riding were the only one like it in the country, it would be worth a journey across the continent to see it." -Henry David Thoreau
"When I ask for a garment of a particular form, my tailoress tells me gravely, 'They do not make them so now,' not emphasizing the 'They' at all, as if she quoted an authority as impersonal as the Fates, and I find it difficult to get made what I want, simply because she cannot believe that I mean what I say, that I am so rash. When I hear this oracular sentence, I am for a moment absorbed in thought, emphasizing to myself each word separately that I may come at the meaning of it, that I may find out by what degree of consanguinity They are related to me, and what authority they may have in an affair which affects me so nearly; and, finally, I am inclined to answer her with equal mystery, and without any more emphasis of the 'they'--'It is true, they did not make them so recently, but they do now.' Of what use this measuring of me if she does not measure my character, but only the breadth of my shoulders, as it were a peg to bang the coat on?" -Henry David Thoreau
"Many are concerned about the monuments of the West and the East -- to know who built them. For my part, I should like to know who in those days did not build them -- who were above such trifling." -Henry David Thoreau
"We have heard that a few days after this, when the Provincetown Bank was robbed, speedy emissaries from Provincetown made particular inquiries concerning us at this lighthouse. Indeed, they traced us all the way down the Cape, and concluded that we came by this unusual route down the back side and on foot in order that we might discover a way to get off with our booty when we had committed the robbery. The Cape is so long and narrow, and so bare withal, that it is well-nigh impossible for a stranger to visit it without the knowledge of its inhabitants generally, unless he is wrecked on to it in the night. So, when this robbery occurred, all their suspicions seem to have at once centered on us two travelers who had just passed down it. If we had not chanced to leave the Cape so soon, we should probably have been arrested. The real robbers were two young men from Worcester County who traveled with a centre-bit, and are said to have done their work very neatly. But the only bank that we pried into was the great Cape Cod sand-bank, and we robbed it only of an old French crown piece, some shells and pebbles, and the materials of this story." -Henry David Thoreau
"Not all books are as dull as their readers. –" -Henry David Thoreau
"The law will never make men free; it is men who have got to make the law free. They are the lovers of law and order who observe the law when the government breaks it." -Henry David Thoreau
"To be a philosopher is not merely to have subtle thoughts, nor even to found a school, but so to love wisdom as to live according to its dictates, a life of simplicity, independence, magnanimity, and trust. It is to solve some of the problems of life, not only theoretically, but practically." -Henry David Thoreau
"While civilization has been improving our houses, it has not equally improved the men who are to inhabit them. It has created palaces, but it was not so easy to create noblemen and kings. And" -Henry David Thoreau
"When we consider what, to use the words of the catechism, is the chief end of man, and what are the true necessaries and means of life, it appears as if men had deliberately chosen the common mode of living because they preferred it to any other. Yet they honestly think there is no choice left." -Henry David Thoreau
"millions are awake enough for physical labor; but only one in a million is awake enough for effective intellectual exertion, only one in a hundred millions to a poetic or divine life. To be awake is to be alive. I have never yet met a man who was quite awake. How could I have looked him in the face?" -Henry David Thoreau
"When I hear the hypercritical quarrelling about grammar and style, the position of the particles, etc., etc., stretching or contracting every speaker to certain rules of theirs,--Mr. Webster, perhaps, not having spoken according to Mr. Kirkham's rule,--I see that they forget that the first requisite and rule is that expression shall be vital and natural, as much as the voice of a brute or an interjection: first of all, mother tongue; and last of all, artificial or father tongue. Essentially your truest poetic sentence is as free and lawless as a lamb's bleat." -Henry David Thoreau
"A farmer, a hunter, a soldier, a reporter, even a philosopher, may be daunted; but nothing can deter a poet, for he is actuated by pure love." -Henry David Thoreau
"men, even in this comparatively free country, through mere ignorance and mistake, are so occupied with the factitious cares and superfluously coarse labors of life that its finer fruits cannot be plucked by them." -Henry David Thoreau
"Most men lead lives of quiet desperation." -Henry David Thoreau
"Books which are books are all that you want, and there are but half a dozen in any thousand." -Henry David Thoreau
"How many a man has dated a new era in his life from the reading of a book!" -Henry David Thoreau
"Perhaps this was the first instance of that quiet way of 'speaking for' a place not yet occupied, or at least not improved as much as it may be, which their descendants have practised, and are still practising so extensively. Not Any seems to have been the sole proprietor of all America before the Yankees [...] At any rate, I know that if you hold a thing unjustly, there will surely be the devil to pay at last." -Henry David Thoreau
"Little is to be expected of that day, if it can be called a day, to which we are not awakened by our Genius, but by the mechanical nudgings of some servitor, are not awakened by our own newly acquired force and aspirations from within, accompanied by the undulations of celestial music, instead of factory bells, and a fragrance filling the air--to a higher life than we fell asleep from; and thus the darkness bear its fruit, and prove itself to be good, no less than the light." -Henry David Thoreau
"How is it that what is actually present and transpiring is commonly perceived by the common sense and understanding only, is bare and bald, without halo or the blue enamel of intervening air? But let it be past or to come, and it is at once idealized. It is not simply the understanding now, but the imagination, that takes cognizance of it. The imagination requires a long range. It is the faculty of the poet to see present things as if, in this sense, also past and future, as if distant or universally significant." -Henry David Thoreau
"What is a course of history or philosophy, or poetry, no matter how well selected, or the best society, or the most admirable routine of life, compared with the discipline of looking always at what is to be seen? Will you be a reader, a student merely, or a seer? Read your fate, see what is before you, and walk on into futurity." -Henry David Thoreau
"The Anglo-American can indeed cut down and grub up all this waving forest, and make a stump speech on its ruins, but he cannot converse with the spirit of the tree he fells, he cannot read the poetry and mythology which retire as he advances. He ignorantly erases mythological tablets in order to print his handbills and town-meeting warrants on them. Before he has learned his a b c in the beautiful but mystic lore of the wilderness he cuts it down, puts up a 'deestrict' schoolhouse, and introduces Webster's spelling-book." -Henry David Thoreau
"The very simplicity and nakedness of man's life in the primitive ages imply this advantage at least, that they left him still but a sojourner in nature. When he was refreshed with food and sleep he contemplated his journey again. He dwelt, as it were, in a tent in this world, and was either threading the valleys, or crossing the plains, or climbing the mountain tops. But lo! men have become the tools of their tools. The man who independently plucked the fruits when he was hungry is become a farmer; and he who stood under a tree for shelter, a housekeeper." -Henry David Thoreau
"Noch niemand ward von seinem Genius in die Irre geführt. Mag das Ergebnis auch körperliche Schwäche sein, so kann doch vielleicht niemand sagen, dass die Folgen zu bedauern seien, denn dieses Leben war höheren Grundsätzen gemäß. Wenn uns Tag und Nacht so erscheinen, dass wir sie mit Freude begrüßen, wenn das Leben einen Duft ausströmt wie Blumen und würzige Kräuter, wenn es spannkräftiger, sternenreicher und mehr unsterblich wird – dann ist dies unser Erfolg. Die ganze Natur beglückwünscht uns, und wir haben Grund, uns einen Augenblick lang selig zu preisen. Die reichsten Gewinste, die höchsten Werte, werden am seltensten geschätzt. Wir kommen nur zu leicht dahin, an ihrem Dasein zu zweifeln. Wir vergessen sie bald. Und doch sind sie höchste Wirklichkeit… Die wahre Ernte meines täglichen Lebens ist etwas so Unfassbares, Unbeschreibliches wie Himmelsfarben am Morgen und Abend. Ein wenig Sternenstaub, ein Stückchen Regenbogen – das ist alles." -Henry David Thoreau
"July 6. I wish to meet the facts of life--the vital facts, which are the phenomena or actuality the gods meant to show us--face to face, and so I came down here. Life! who knows what it is, what it does? If I am not quite right here, I am less wrong than before; and now let us see what they will have." -Henry David Thoreau
"Ma il ricco [...] è sempre colluso con l'istituzione che lo fa ricco. In termini assoluti, più soldi corrispondono a minor virtù, poiché il denaro si insinua tra l'uomo e i suoi obbiettivi e glieli ottiene, però a scapito della sua onestà." -Henry David Thoreau
"No man ever stood the lower in my estimation for having a patch in his clothes; yet I am sure that there is greater anxiety, commonly, to have fashionable, or at least clean and unpatched clothes, than to have a sound conscience." -Henry David Thoreau
"One who has just come from reading perhaps one of the best English books will find how many with whom he can converse about it? Or suppose he comes from reading a Greek or Latin classic in the original, whose praises are familiar even to the so-called illiterate; he will find nobody at all to speak to, but must keep silence about it." -Henry David Thoreau
"When sometimes I am reminded that the mechanics and shopkeepers stay in their shops not only all the forenoon, but all the afternoon too, sitting with crossed legs, so many of them--as if the legs were made to sit upon, and not to stand or walk upon--I think that they deserve some credit for not having all committed suicide long ago." -Henry David Thoreau
"Says the poet Mir Camar Uddin Mast, 'Being seated, to run through the region of the spiritual world; I have had this advantage in books. To be intoxicated by a single glass of wine; I have experienced this pleasure when I have drunk the liquor of the esoteric doctrines." -Henry David Thoreau
"These apples have hung in the wind and frost and rain till they have absorbed the qualities of the weather or season, and thus are highly seasoned, and they pierce and sting and permeate us with their spirit." -Henry David Thoreau
"out, it finally amounts to this, which also I believe--'That government is best which governs not at all';" -Henry David Thoreau
"But men labor under a mistake. The better part of the man is soon plowed into the soil for compost. By a seeming fate, commonly called necessity, they are employed, as it says in an old book, laying up treasures which moth and rust will corrupt and thieves break through and steal. It is a fool's life, as they will find when they get to the end of it, if not before." -Henry David Thoreau
"not sit while the wind went by. Is the literary man to live always or chiefly sitting in a chamber through which nature enters by a window only? What is the use of the summer?" -Henry David Thoreau
"Have you got in your wood for this winter? What else have you got in? Of what use a great fire on the hearth, and a confounded little fire in the heart?" -Henry David Thoreau
"There are nowadays professors of philosophy, but not philosophers. Yet it is admirable to profess because it was once admirable to live. To be a philosopher is not merely to have subtle thoughts, nor even to found a school, but so to love wisdom as to live according to its dictates, a life of simplicity, independence, magnanimity, and trust. It is to solve some of the problems of life, not only theoretically, but practically." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is well to have some water in your neighborhood, to give buoyancy to and float the earth." -Henry David Thoreau
"Let your life be a counter-friction to stop the machine." -Henry David Thoreau
"Any nobleness begins at once to refine a man's features, any meanness or sensuality to imbrute them." -Henry David Thoreau
"This [...] government [...] has not the vitality and force of a single living man; for a single man cam bend it to his will." -Henry David Thoreau
"When he has obtained those things which are necessary to life, there is another alternative than to obtain the superfluities; and that is, to adventure on life now," -Henry David Thoreau
"All men want, not something to do with, but something to do, or rather something to be. Perhaps we should never procure a new suit, however ragged or dirty the old, until we have so conducted, so enterprised or sailed in some way, that we feel like new men in the old, and that to retain it would be like keeping new wine in old bottles. Our moulting season, like that of the fowls, must be a crisis in our lives. The loon retires to solitary ponds to spend it. Thus also the snake casts its slough, and the caterpillar its wormy coat, by an internal industry and expansion; for clothes are but our outmost cuticle and mortal coil. Otherwise we shall be found sailing under false colors, and be inevitably cashiered at last by our own opinion, as well as that of mankind." -Henry David Thoreau
"Nowadays, men wear a fool's-cap, and call it a liberty-cap. I do not know but there are some who, if they were tied to a whipping-post, and could but get one hand free, would use it to ring the bells and fire the cannons to celebrate THEIR liberty. So some of my townsmen took the liberty to ring and fire. That was the extent of their freedom; and when the sound of the bells died away, their liberty died away also; when the powder was all expended, their liberty went off with the smoke." -Henry David Thoreau
"John Farmer sat at his door one September evening, after a hard day's work, his mind still running on his labor more or less. Having bathed, he sat down to re-create his intellectual man. It was a rather cool evening, and some of his neighbors were apprehending a frost. He had not attended to the train of his thoughts long when he heard some one playing on a flute, and that sound harmonized with his mood. Still he thought of his work; but the burden of his thought was, that though this kept running in his head, and he found himself planning and contriving it against his will, yet it concerned him very little. It was no more than the scurf of his skin, which was constantly shuffled off. But the notes of the flute came home to his ears out of a different sphere from that he worked in, and suggested work for certain faculties which slumbered in him. They gently did away with the street, and the village, and the state in which he lived. A voice said to him--Why do you stay here and live this mean moiling life, when a glorious existence is possible for you? Those same stars twinkle over other fields than these.--But how to come out of this condition and actually migrate thither? All that he could think of was to practise some new austerity, to let his mind descend into his body and redeem it, and treat himself with ever increasing respect." -Henry David Thoreau
"Sotto un governo che imprigiona ingiustamente non importa chi, il vero posto dove può vivere un uomo giusto è la prigione." -Henry David Thoreau
"la raison pratique pour laquelle, une fois le pouvoir échu aux mains du peuple, une majorité reçoit la permission de régner, et continue de la détenir pour une longue période, ce n'est pas parce qu'elle court plus de risques d'avoir raison, ni parce que cela semble plus juste à la majorité, mais parce qu'elle est physiquement la plus forte." -Henry David Thoreau
"My best room, however, my withdrawing room, always ready for company, on whose carpet the sun rarely fell, was the pine wood behind my house. Thither in summer days, when distinguished guests came, I took them, and a priceless domestic swept the floor and dusted the furniture and kept the things in order." -Henry David Thoreau
"Le citoyen doit-il un seul instant, dans quelque mesure que ce soit, abandonner sa conscience au législateur ?(LA DÉSOBÉISSANCE CIVILE)" -Henry David Thoreau
"Must be out-of-doors enough to get experience of wholesome reality, as a ballast to thought and sentiment. Health requires this relaxation, this aimless life. This life in the present. Let a man have thought what he will of Nature in the house, she will still be novel outdoors. I keep out of doors for the sake of the mineral, vegetable, and animal in me." -Henry David Thoreau
"We love to see any part of the earth tinged with blue, cerulean, the color of the sky, the celestial color." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is a mistake to suppose that, in a country where the usual evidences of civilization exist, the condition of a very large body of inhabitants may not be as degraded as that of savages. I refer to the degraded poor, not now to the degraded rich. To know this I should not need to look farther than to the shanties which everywhere border our railroads, that last improvement in civilization; where I see in my daily walks human beings living in sties, and all winter with an open door, for the sake of light, without any visible, often imaginable, wood-pile, and the forms of both old and young are permanently contracted by the long habit of shrinking from cold and misery, and the development of all their limbs and faculties is checked.... Such too, to a greater or less extent, is the condition of the operatives of every denomination in England, which is the great workhouse of the world. Or I could refer you to Ireland, which is marked as one of the white or enlightened spots on the map. Contrast the physical condition of the Irish with that of the North American Indian, or the South Sea Islander, or any other savage race before it was degraded by contact with the civilized man. Yet I have no doubt that that people's rulers are as wise as the average of civilized rulers. Their condition only proves what squalidness may consist with civilization." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is time that we had uncommon schools, that we did not leave off our education when we begin to be men and women." -Henry David Thoreau
"What is it that makes it so hard sometimes to determine whither we will walk? I believe that there is a subtle magnetism in Nature, which, if we unconsciously yield to it, will direct us aright. It is not indifferent to us which way we walk. There is a right way; but we are very liable from heedlessness and stupidity to take the wrong one. We would fain take that walk, never yet taken by us through this actual world, which is perfectly symbolical of the path which we love to travel in the interior and ideal world; and sometimes, no doubt, we find it difficult to choose our direction, because it does not yet exist distinctly in our idea." -Henry David Thoreau
"What is called politics is comparatively something so superficial and inhuman, that practically I have never fairly recognized that it concerns me at all. The newspapers, I perceive, devote some of their columns specially to politics or government without charge; and this, one would say, is all that saves it; but as I love literature and to some extent the truth also, I never read those columns at any rate. I do not wish to blunt my sense of right so much." -Henry David Thoreau
"It enriches us infinitely to recognize greater qualities than we possess in another." -Henry David Thoreau
"Is not the poet bound to write his own biography? Is there any other work for him but a good journal? We do not wish to know how his imaginary hero, but how he, the actual hero, lived from day to day." -Henry David Thoreau
"All perception of truth is the detection of analogy; we reason from our hands to our head." -Henry David Thoreau
"I am a parcel of vain strivings tiedBy a chance bond together,Dangling this way and that, their linksWere made so loose and wide,Methinks,For milder weather." -Henry David Thoreau
"If the injustice is part of the necessary friction of the machine of government, let it go, let it go." -Henry David Thoreau
"I have scarcely heard of a truer sacrament, that is, as the dictionary defines it, 'outward and visible sign of an inward and spiritual grace,' than this, and I have no doubt that they were originally inspired directly from Heaven to do thus, though they have no Biblical record of the revelation." -Henry David Thoreau
"[...] dopotutto non erano tanto nobili, ma trattavano il ladro nella stessa maniera in cui il ladro li trattava." -Henry David Thoreau
"Foolish people imagine that what they imagine is somewhere else. That stuff is not made in any factory but their own." -Henry David Thoreau
"Grow wild according to thy nature." -Henry David Thoreau
"Yet some, not wise, go to the other side of the globe, to barbarous and unhealthy regions, and devote themselves to trade for ten or twenty years, in order that they may live--that is, keep comfortably warm--and die in New England at last. The luxuriously rich are not simply kept comfortably warm, but unnaturally hot; as i implied before, they are cooked, à la mode." -Henry David Thoreau
"There were times when I could not afford to sacrifice the bloom of the present moment to any work, whether of the head or hands." -Henry David Thoreau
"Trade and commerce, if they were not made of India-rubber, would never manage to bounce over obstacles which legislators are continually putting in their way; and if one were to judge these men wholly by the effects of their actions and not partly by their intentions, they would deserve to be classed and punished with those mischievous persons who put obstructions on the railroads." -Henry David Thoreau
"So much for a blind obedience to a blundering oracle, throwing the stones over their heads behind them, and not seeing where they fell." -Henry David Thoreau
"There is no rule more invariable than that we are paid for our suspicions by finding what we suspected." -Henry David Thoreau
"The universe constantly and obediently answers to our conceptions; whether we travel fast or slow, the track is laid for us. Let us spend our lives in conceiving then." -Henry David Thoreau
"Unsere Geselligkeit ist im allgemeinen zu billig. Wir treffen einander in viel zu kurzen Zeitabständen, lassen uns nicht die Zeit, neuen Wert füreinander zu gewinnen. Wir treffen uns dreimal am Tag zu den Mahlzeiten und geben uns gegenseitig Kostproben von dem ranzigen Stück Käse, das wir sind. Wir müssen uns auf bestimmte Regeln, Etikette und Höflichkeit genannt, einigen, um unsere häufigen Zusammenkünfte erträglich zu gestalten und es nicht zum offenen Krieg zwischen uns kommen zu lassen. [...] Wir leben so dicht nebeneinander, daß wir uns im Wege sind und übereinander stoplern. Dadurch verlieren wir meiner Ansicht nach an gegenseitiger Achtung." -Henry David Thoreau
"Every little pine needle expanded and swelled with sympathy and befriended me." -Henry David Thoreau
"I would not have any one adopt my mode of living on any account; for, beside that before he has fairly learned it I may have found out another for myself, I desire that there may be as many different persons in the world as possible; but I would have each one be very careful to find out and pursue his own way, and not his father's or his mother's or his neighbor's instead." -Henry David Thoreau
"have learned that the swiftest traveller is he that goes afoot." -Henry David Thoreau
"We should feed and clothe him gratuitously sometimes, and recruit him with our cordials, before we judge of him. The finest qualities of our nature, like the bloom on fruits, can be preserved only by the most delicate handling. Yet we do not treat ourselves nor one another thus tenderly." -Henry David Thoreau
"I left the woods for as good a reason as I went there. Perhaps it seemed to me that I had several more lives to live, and could not spare any more time for that one. It is remarkable how easily and insensibly we fall into a particular route, and make a beaten track for ourselves. I had not lived there a week before my feet wore a path from my door to the pond-side; and though it is five or six years since I trod it, it is still quite distinct. It is true, I fear, that others may have fallen into it, and so helped to keep it open. The surface of the earth is soft and impressible by the feet of men; and so with the paths which the mind travels. How worn and dusty, then, must be the highways of the world, how deep the ruts of tradition and conformity! I did not wish to take a cabin passage, but rather to go before the mast and on the deck of the world, for there I could best see the moonlight amid the mountains. I do not wish to go below now. I learned this, at least, by my experiment: that if one advances confidently in the direction of his dreams, and endeavors to live the life which he has imagined, he will meet with a success unexpected in common hours. He will put some things behind, will pass an invisible boundary; new, universal, and more liberal laws will begin to establish themselves around and within him; or the old laws be expanded, and interpreted in his favor in a more liberal sense, and he will live with the license of a higher order of beings. In proportion as he simplifies his life, the laws of the universe will appear less complex, and solitude will not be solitude, nor poverty poverty, nor weakness weakness. If you have built castles in the air, your work need not be lost; that is where they should be. Now put the foundations under them." -Henry David Thoreau
"Ich stelle mir bei meinen Bekannten manchmal die Frage: Würde er einen Flicken oder auch nur zwei Extranähte auf seinem Hosenknie ertragen? Die meisten benehmen sich, als würde das alle ihre Zukunftsaussichten zunichte machen. Eher würden sie mit einem gebrochenen Bein in die Stadt humpeln als mit einer zerrissenen Hose. Wenn die Beine eines Herrn bei einem Unfall zu Schaden kommen, können sie oft wieder geheilt werden; wenn jedoch ein ähnlicher Unfall den Beinen seiner Hose zustößt, kommt jede Hilfe zu spät; denn ihn kümmert nicht, was wirklich achtenswert ist, sondern das, was geachtet wird. Wir kennen nur wenige Menschen, aber sehr viele Überröcke und Hosen. Man ziehe einer Vogelscheuche seinen neuesten Anzug an und stelle sich nackt daneben: Wer würde nicht zuerst die Vogelscheuche begrüßen?" -Henry David Thoreau
"Instead of singing, like the birds, I silently smiled at my incessant good fortune. As the sparrow had its trill, sitting on the hickory before my door, so I had my chuckle or suppressed warble which he might hear out of my nest." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is a way to keep cider sweet without boiling. Let the frost come to freeze them first, solid as stones, and then the rain or a warm winter day to thaw them, and they will seem to have borrowed a flavor from heaven through the medium of the air in which they hang." -Henry David Thoreau
"If there were one who lived wholly without the use of money, the State itself would hesitate to demand it of him. But the rich man--not to make any invidious comparison--is always sold to the institution which makes him rich. Absolutely speaking, the more money, the less virtue; for money comes between a man and his objects, and obtains them for him; it was certainly no great virtue to obtain it. It puts to rest many questions which he would otherwise be taxed to answer; while the only new question which it puts is the hard but superfluous one, how to spend it. Thus his moral ground is taken from under his feet." -Henry David Thoreau
"I love Nature partly because she is not man, but a retreat from him. None of his institutions control or pervade her. There a different kind of right prevails. In her midst I can be glad with an entire gladness. If this world were all man, I could not stretch myself, I should lose all hope." -Henry David Thoreau
"Я советую вам остерегаться всех дел, требующих нового платья, а не нового человека. Если сам человек не обновился, как может новое платье прийтись ему впору?" -Henry David Thoreau
"My Muse may be excused if she is silent henceforth. How can you expect the birds to sing when their groves are cut down?" -Henry David Thoreau
"Genius is not a retainer to any emperor, or is its material silver, or gold, or marble, except to a trifling extent." -Henry David Thoreau
"[Man] needs not only to be spiritualized, but naturalized" -Henry David Thoreau
"I suppose that I have not many months to live: but of course I know nothing about it. I may add that I am enjoying existence as much as ever, and regret nothing." -Henry David Thoreau
". Is a democracy, such as we know it, the last improvement possible in government? Is it not possible to take a step further towards recognizing and organizing the rights of man?" -Henry David Thoreau
"The world is but a canvas for our imagination" -Henry David Thoreau
"Who knows but if men constructed their dwellings with their own hands, and provided food for themselves and families simply and honestly enough, the poetic faculty would be universally developed, as birds universally sing when they are so engaged? But alas! we do like cowbirds and cuckoos, which lay their eggs in nests which other birds have built, and cheer no traveller with their chattering and unmusical notes. Shall we forever resign the pleasure of construction to the carpenter? What does architecture amount to in the experience of the mass of men? I never in all my walks came across a man engaged in so simple and natural an occupation as building his house. We belong to the community. It is not the tailor alone who is the ninth part of a man; it is as much the preacher, and the merchant, and the farmer. Where is this division of labor to end? and what object does it finally serve? No doubt another may also think for me; but it is not therefore desirable that he should do so to the exclusion of my thinking for myself." -Henry David Thoreau
"What sort of space is that which separates a man from his fellows and makes him solitary? I have found that no exertion of the legs can bring two minds much nearer to one another." -Henry David Thoreau
"Not that the story need to be long, but it will take a long time to shorten it" -Henry David Thoreau
"Let them wander and scrutinize the outlandish Australians. I have more of God, they more of the road." -Henry David Thoreau
"To read well, that is, to read true books in a true spirit, is a noble exercise, and one that will task the reader more than any exercise which the customs of the day esteem. It requires a training such as the athletes underwent, the steady intention almost of the whole life to this object. Books must be read as deliberately and reservedly as they were written. It is not enough even to be able to speak the language of that nation by which they are written, for there is a memorable interval between the spoken and the written language, the language heard and the language read." -Henry David Thoreau
"How little that occurs to us in any way are we prepared at once to appreciate! We discriminate at first only a few features, and we need to reconsider our experience from many points of view and in various moods, to preserve the whole fruit of it." -Henry David Thoreau
"If the machine of government is of such a nature that it requires you to be the agent of injustice to another, then, I say, break the law." -Henry David Thoreau
"Der Morgen ist die Stunde des Erwachens, die bedeutungsvollste Zeit des Tages, in der wir am wenigsten schlafbedürftig sind, in der zumindest eine Stunde lang ein Teil von uns wach ist, der alle übrige Tages- und Nachtzeit schlummert. [...] Und für den, dessen elastische, lebhafte Gedanken mit der Sonne Schritt halten, ist der Tag ein immerwährender Morgen, unabhängig vom Stundenschlag, vom Tun und Gehaben der Menschen. [...] Wach sein heißt leben. [...]Wir müssen lernen, wieder zu erwachen und wach zu bleiben. Nicht auf mechanischem Wege, sondern durch ein ständiges Erwarten der Morgendämmerung, die uns auch in unserem tiefsten Schlaf nicht verläßt. Ich weiß nichts, das ermutigender wäre als die Fähigkeit des Menschen, sein Leben durch bewußtes Bemühen auf eine höhere Stufe zu bringen." -Henry David Thoreau
"A man must find his occasions in himself, it is true. The natural day is very calm, and will hardly reprove his indolence." -Henry David Thoreau
"When a man is warmed by the several modes which I have described, what does he want next? Surely not more warmth of the same kind, as more and richer food, larger and more splendid houses, finer and more abundant clothing, more numerous, incessant, and hotter fires, and the like. When he has obtained those things which are necessary to life," -Henry David Thoreau
"So hollow and ineffectual, for the most part, is our ordinary conversation. Surface meets surface. When our life ceases to be inward and private, conversation degenerates into mere gossip. ... In proportion as our inward life fails, we go more constantly and desperately to the post office." -Henry David Thoreau
"I feel as if I were nearer to the vitals of the globe, for this sandy overflow is something such a foliaceous mass as the vitals of the animal body." -Henry David Thoreau
"Nature has no human inhabitant who appreciates her. The birds with their plumage and their notes are in harmony with the flowers, but what youth or maiden conspires with the wild luxuriant beauty of Nature? She flourishes most alone, far from the towns where they reside. Talk of heaven! ye disgrace earth." -Henry David Thoreau
"Dichtung und Mythologie des Altertums deuten darauf hin, daß die Landwirtschaft einst als eine heilige Kunst geübt wurde. Bei uns aber wird sie mit einer unbekümmerten, nachlässigen Hast betrieben, die auf nichts anderes bedacht ist, als möglichst große Farmen zu besitzen und möglichst große Ernten einzubringen. [...] Geiz, Selbstsucht und die würdelose Angewohnheit, den Boden als Eigentum oder hauptsächlich als Mittel zum Erwerb von Eigentum zu betrachten, von der niemand unter uns sich ganz freisprechen kann, haben unsere Landschaft entstellt und unsere Landwirtschaft degradiert. Unser Farmer führt das denkbar niedrigste Leben. Er kennt die Natur nur als ihr Ausbeuter." -Henry David Thoreau
"for the devil finds employment for the idle" -Henry David Thoreau
"To many creatures there is in this sense but one necessary of life, Food." -Henry David Thoreau
"si elle (la loi) est d'une telle nature qu'elle fasse de vous l'agent de l'injustice vis-à-vis d'autrui alors je déclare qu'il faut enfreindre la loi" -Henry David Thoreau
"There is a time in every man's education when he arrives at the conviction that envy is ignorance; that imitation is suicide; that he must take himself for better for worse as his portion; that though the wide universe is full of good, no kernel of nourishing corn can come to him but through his toil bestowed on that plot of ground which is given to him to till. The power which resides in him is new in nature, and none but he knows what that is which he can do, nor does he know until he has tried." -Henry David Thoreau
"Morgenluft! Wenn die Menschen von ihr nicht an der Quelle des Tages trinken wollen, werden wir ein wenig von ihr auf Flaschen füllen müssen und sie in den Läden verkaufen, zum Wohle derer, die ihr Rezept für Morgenstunden in dieser Welt verloren haben." -Henry David Thoreau
"what a rich book might be made about buds and, perhaps, sprouts!" -Henry David Thoreau
"Our table was a large piece of freshly peeled birch bark, laid wrong side up, and our breakfast consisted of hard-bread, fried pork, and strong coffee well sweetened, in which we did not miss the milk." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is so much pleasanter and wholesomer to be warmed by the sun while you can be, than by an artificial fire." -Henry David Thoreau
"As if the main object were to talk fast and not to talk sensibly." -Henry David Thoreau
"Any truth is better than make-believe. Tom Hyde, the tinker, standing on the gallows, was asked if he had any thing to say. 'Tell the tailors,' said he, 'to remember to make a knot in their thread before they take the first stitch.' His companion's prayer is forgotten." -Henry David Thoreau
"If a man walk in the woods for love of them half of each day, he is in danger of being regarded as a loafer; but if he spends his whole day as a speculator, shearing off those woods and making the earth bald before her time, he is esteemed an industrious and enterprising citizen. As if a town had no interest in its forests but to cut them down!" -Henry David Thoreau
"Our thoughts are the epochs in our lives, all else is but as a journal of the winds that blew while we were here." -Henry David Thoreau
"Some, however, would derive the word from sans terre, without land or a home, which, therefore, in the good sense, will mean, having no particular home, but equally at home everywhere. For this is the secret of successful sauntering. He who sits still in a house all the time may be the greatest vagrant of all, but the Saunterer, in the good sense, is no more vagrant than the meandering river, which is all the while sedulously seeking the shortest course to the sea." -Henry David Thoreau
"Even poetry, you know, is in one sense an infinite brag & exaggeration." -Henry David Thoreau
"All change is a miracle to contemplate;" -Henry David Thoreau
"I have lived some thirty years on this planet, and I have yet to hear the first syllable of valuable or even earnest advice from my seniors." -Henry David Thoreau
"While I enjoy the friendship of the seasons I trust that nothing can make life a burden to me. The gentle rain which waters my beans and keeps me in the house today is not drear and melancholy, but good for me too. Though it prevents my hoeing them, it is of far more worth than my hoeing. If it should continue so long as to cause the seeds to rot in the ground and destroy the potatoes in the low lands, it would still be good for the grass on the uplands, and, being good for the grass, it would be good for me." -Henry David Thoreau
"I went to the woods because Iwanted to live deliberately...I wanted to live deep and suckout all the marrow of life!To put to rest all that was not life...And not, when I came to die, discoverthat I had not lived..." -Henry David Thoreau
"Shams and delusions are esteemed for soundest truths, while reality is fabulous. If men would steadily observe realities only, and not allow themselves to be deluded, life, to compare it with such things as we know, would be like a fairy tale and the Arabian Nights' Entertainments. If we respected only what is inevitable and has a right to be, music and poetry would resound along the streets. When we are unhurried and wise, we perceive that only great and worthy things have any permanent and absolute existence Ð that petty fears and petty pleasures are but the shadow of the reality. This is always exhilarating and sublime. By closing the eyes and slumbering, and consenting to be deceived by shows, men establish and confirm their daily life of routine and habit everywhere, which still is built on purely illusory foundations." -Henry David Thoreau
"There is more day to dawn; the sun is but a morning star." -Henry David Thoreau
"Today you may write a chapter on the advantages of travelling & tomorrow you may write another chapter on the advantages of not travelling." -Henry David Thoreau
"No; sed Colones de los continentes y mundos enteramente nuevos de vuestro interior y abrid nuevas vías, no para el comercio, sino para las ideas.Todo hombre es dueño y señor de un reino junto al cual el imperio terrestre del zar no es sino una nimiedad, un rimerillo dejado por el hielo. Sin embargo, algunos que no se tienen respeto a sí mismos pueden pasar por patriotas y sacrificar lo más grande a lo más vano. Aman el suelo que conformará su tumba, pero no sienten simpatía alguna por el espíritu que anima aún su propio barro." -Henry David Thoreau
"There are nine hundred and ninety-nine patrons of virtue to one virtuous man." -Henry David Thoreau
"Wherever men have lived there is a story to be told, and it depends chiefly on the story-teller or historian whether it is interesting or not." -Henry David Thoreau
"However mean your life is, meet it and live it; do not shun it and call it hard names. It is not so bad as you are. It looks poorest when you are richest. The fault-finder will find faults even in paradise. Love your life, poor as it is. You may perhaps have some pleasant, thrilling, glorious hours, even in a poorhouse. The setting sun is reflected from the windows of the almshouse as brightly as from the rich man's abode; the snow melts before its door as early in the spring. I do not see but a quiet mind may live as contentedly there, and have as cheering thoughts, as in a palace. The town's poor seem to me often to live the most independent lives of any. Maybe they are simply great enough to receive without misgiving. Most think that they are above being supported by the town; but it oftener happens that they are not above supporting themselves by dishonest means, which should be more disreputable. Cultivate poverty like a garden herb, like sage. Do not trouble yourself much to get new things, whether clothes or friends. Turn the old; return to them. Things do not change; we change. Sell your clothes and keep your thoughts. God will see that you do not want society. If I were confined to a corner of a garret all my days, like a spider, the world would be just as large to me while I had my thoughts about me. The philosopher said: 'From an army of three divisions one can take away its general, and put it in disorder; from the man the most abject and vulgar one cannot take away his thought.' Do not seek so anxiously to be developed, to subject yourself to many influences to be played on; it is all dissipation. Humility like darkness reveals the heavenly lights. The shadows of poverty and meanness gather around us, 'and lo! creation widens to our view.' We are often reminded that if there were bestowed on us the wealth of Croesus, our aims must still be the same, and our means essentially the same. Moreover, if you are restricted in your range by poverty, if you cannot buy books and newspapers, for instance, you are but confined to the most significant and vital experiences; you are compelled to deal with the material which yields the most sugar and the most starch. It is life near the bone where it is sweetest. You are defended from being a trifler. No man loses ever on a lower level by magnanimity on a higher. Superfluous wealth can buy superfluities only. Money is not required to buy one necessary of the soul." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is truly enough said that a corporation has no conscience; but a corporation of conscientious men is a corporation with a conscience." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is because the children of the empire were not suckled by wolves that they were conquered & displaced by the children of the northern forests who were." -Henry David Thoreau
"The commonest and cheapest sounds, as the barking of a dog, produce the same effect on fresh and healthy ears that the rarest music does. It depends on your appetite for sound. Just as a crust is sweeter to a healthy appetite than confectionery to a pampered or diseased one. It is better that these cheap sounds be music to us than that we have the rarest ears for music in any other sense. I have lain awake at night many a time to think of the barking of a dog which I had heard long before, bathing my being again in those waves of sound, as a frequenter of the opera might lie awake remembering the music he had heard." -Henry David Thoreau
"Живя в роскоши, ничего не создашь, кроме предметов роскоши, будь то в сельском хозяйстве, торговле, литературе или искусстве." -Henry David Thoreau
"I rejoice that there are owls. Let them do the idiotic and maniacal hooting for men. It is a sound admirably suited to swamps and twilight woods which no day illustrates, suggesting a vast and undeveloped nature which men have not recognized." -Henry David Thoreau
"I read in the Gulistan, or Flower Garden, of Sheik Sadi of Shiraz, that 'they asked a wise man, saying: Of the many celebrated trees which the Most High God has created lofty and umbrageous, they call none azad, or free, excepting the cypress, which bears no fruit; what mystery is there in this? He replied, Each has its appropriate produce, and appointed season, during the continuance of which it is fresh and blooming, and during their absence dry and withered; to neither of which states is the cypress exposed, being always flourishing; and of this nature are the azads, or religious independents.--Fix not thy heart on that which is transitory; for the Dijlah, or Tigris, will continue to flow through Bagdad after the race of caliphs is extinct: if thy hand has plenty, be liberal as the date tree; but if it affords nothing to give away, be an azad, or free man, like the cypress." -Henry David Thoreau
"Ci sono novecentonovantanove sostenitori della virtù ogni uomo virtuoso, ma è più facile trattare con il reale possessore di qualcosa che con il suo guardiano temporaneo." -Henry David Thoreau
"do not wish to be any more busy with my hands than is necessary. My head is hands and feet. I feel all my best faculties concentrated in it. My instinct tells me that my head is an organ for burrowing, as some creatures use their snout and fore-paws, and with it I would mine and burrow my way through these hills. I think that the richest vein is somewhere hereabouts; so by the divining rod and thin rising vapors I judge; and here I will begin to mine." -Henry David Thoreau
"La vie est trop courte pour qu'on soit pressé." -Henry David Thoreau
"It costs me less in every sense to incur the penalty of disobedience to the State than it would to obey." -Henry David Thoreau
"Who shall distinguish between the law by which a brook finds its river, the instinct by which a bird performs its migrations, and the knowledge by which a man steers his ship round the globe? The globe is the richer for the variety of its inhabitants." -Henry David Thoreau
"What is man but a mass of thawing clay?" -Henry David Thoreau
"I only know myself as a human entity, the scene, so to speak, of thoughts and affections, and am sensible of a certain doubleness by which I can stand as remote from myself as from another. However intense my experience, I am conscious of the presence and criticism of a part of me which, as it were, is not a part of me, but spectator, sharing no experience, but taking note of it, and that is no more I than it is you." -Henry David Thoreau
"Things do not change; people change." -Henry David Thoreau
"Why should pensiveness be akin to sadness? There is a certain fertile sadness which I would not avoid, but rather earnestly seek. It is positively joyful to me. It saves my life from being trivial." -Henry David Thoreau
"I fear chiefly lest my expression may not be extra-vagant enough, may not wander far enough beyond the narrow limits of my daily experience, so as to be adequate to the truth of which I have been convinced." -Henry David Thoreau
"The modern cheap and fertile press, with all its translations, has done little to bring us nearer to the heroic writers of antiquity." -Henry David Thoreau
"My vicinity affords many good walks; and though for so many years I have walked almost every day, and sometimes for several days together, I have not yet exhausted them. An absolutely new prospect is a great happiness, and I can still get this any afternoon." -Henry David Thoreau
"('what danger is there if you don't think of any?')," -Henry David Thoreau
"When other birds are still, the screech owls take up the strain, like mourning women their ancient u-lu-lu. Their dismal scream is truly Ben Jonsonian.( Wise midnight hags! It is no honest and blunt tu-whit tu-who of the poets, but, without jesting, a most solemn graveyard ditty, the mutual consolations of suicide lovers remembering the pangs and the delights of supernal love in the infernal groves. Yet I love to hear their wailing, their doleful responses, trilled along the woodside; reminding me sometimes of music and singing birds; as if it were the dark and tearful side of music, the regrets and sighs that would fain be sung. They are the spirits, the low spirits and melancholy forebodings, of fallen souls that once in human shape night-walked the earth and did the deeds of darkness, now expiating their sins with their wailing hymns or threnodies in the scenery of their transgressions. They give me a new sense of the variety and capacity of that nature which is our common dwelling. Oh-o-o-o-o that I never had been bor-r-r-r-n! sighs one on this side of the pond, and circles with the restlessness of despair to some new perch on the gray oaks. Then -- that I never had been bor-r-r-r-n! echoes another on the farther side with tremulous sincerity, and -- bor-r-r-r-n! comes faintly from far in the Lincoln woods.I was also serenaded by a hooting owl. Near at hand you could fancy it the most melancholy sound in Nature, as if she meant by this to stereotype and make permanent in her choir the dying moans of a human being -- some poor weak relic of mortality who has left hope behind, and howls like an animal, yet with human sobs, on entering the dark valley, made more awful by a certain gurgling melodiousness -- I find myself beginning with the letters gl when I try to imitate it -- expressive of a mind which has reached the gelatinous, mildewy stage in the mortification of all healthy and courageous thought. It reminded me of ghouls and idiots and insane howlings. But now one answers from far woods in a strain made really melodious by distance -- Hoo hoo hoo, hoorer hoo; and indeed for the most part it suggested only pleasing associations, whether heard by day or night, summer or winter.I rejoice that there are owls. Let them do the idiotic and maniacal hooting for men. It is a sound admirably suited to swamps and twilight woods which no day illustrates, suggesting a vast and undeveloped nature which men have not recognized. They represent the stark twilight and unsatisfied thoughts which all have. All day the sun has shone on the surface of some savage swamp, where the double spruce stands hung with usnea lichens, and small hawks circulate above, and the chickadee lisps amid the evergreens, and the partridge and rabbit skulk beneath; but now a more dismal and fitting day dawns, and a different race of creatures awakes to express the meaning of Nature there." -Henry David Thoreau
"La seule obligation que j'aie le droit d'adopter, c'est d'agir à tout moment selon ce qui me paraît juste." -Henry David Thoreau
"Even music may be intoxicating. Such apparently slight causes destroyed Greece and Rome, and will destroy England and America." -Henry David Thoreau
"We now no longer camp as for a night, but have settled down on earth and forgotten heaven. We have adopted Christianity merely as an improved method of agri-culture. We have built for this world a family mansion, and for the next a family tomb. The best works of art are the expression of man's struggle to free himself from this condition, but the effect of our art is merely to make this low state comfortable and that higher state to be forgotten." -Henry David Thoreau
"If a man does not march in step to his companions, perhaps it is because he hears a different drummer." -Henry David Thoreau
"Men esteem truth remote, in the outskirts of the system, before Adam and after the last man. In eternity there is indeed something true and sublime. But all these times and places and occasions are now and here." -Henry David Thoreau
"The progress from an absolute to a limited monarchy, from a limited monarchy to a democracy, is a progress toward a true respect for the individual." -Henry David Thoreau
"قصدت الغابة لأنّي رغبت في الحياة بتروّ وتعمّد ، رغبت ألّا أجابه إلّا حقائق الحياة الجوهريّة ، رغبت أن أتبيّن إن كان بإستطاعتي أن أتعلّم ما لديها ، وألّا أكتشف حين أشرف على الموت أنّي لم أعش حياتي. لم أرغب في الأخذ بأسباب حياة ليست بالحياة ، فالحياة عزيزة غالية ، لم أرغب في الإذعان ما لم يكن ضروريّاً مُلحّاً. أردت أن أعيش حياة هي لبّ الحياة كلّه ، أعيش بثبات أبناء أسبارطة هازماً كلّ ما هو ليس بحياة ، أجذب إليّ الإنتباه وأنجو بأعجوبة ، أدفع الحياة إلى ركن لأحوّلها إلى أبسط معانيها ، ولو إتّضح أنّها وضيعة ، فلننل وضاعتها الكاملة الحقيقيّة وننشرها أمام العالم !" -Henry David Thoreau
"If the day and the night are such that you greet them with joy, and life emits a fragrance like flowers and sweet-scented herbs, is more elastic, more starry, more immortal--that is your success. All" -Henry David Thoreau
"Thus no life or experience goes unreported at last; but if it be not solid gold it is gold-leaf, which gilds the furniture of the mind." -Henry David Thoreau
"The philosopher said: 'From an army of three divisions one can take away its general, and put it in disorder; from the man the most abject and vulgar one cannot take away his thought." -Henry David Thoreau
"How meanly and miserably we live for the most part! We escape fate continually by the skin of our teeth, as the saying is. We are practically desperate. What kind of gift is life unless we have spirits to enjoy it and taste its true flavor?" -Henry David Thoreau
"The house is still but a sort of porch at the entrance of a burrow." -Henry David Thoreau
" I cast my vote, perchance, as I think right; but I am not vitally concerned that that right should prevail. I am willing to leave it to the majority. Its obli­gation, therefore, never exceeds that of expediency. Even voting for the right is doing nothing for it. It is only expressing to men feebly your desire that it should prevail. " -Henry David Thoreau
"Nature puts no question and answers none which we mortals ask." -Henry David Thoreau
"If we respected only what is inevitable and has a right to be, music and poetry would resound along the streets. When we are unhurried and wise, we perceive that only great and worthy things have any permanent and absolute existence, that petty fears and petty pleasures are but the shadow of the reality. This is always exhilarating and sublime." -Henry David Thoreau
"Nowadays almost all man's improvements, so called, as the building of houses and the cutting down of the forest and of all large trees, simply deform the landscape, and make it more and more tame and cheap." -Henry David Thoreau
"For it matters not how small the beginning may seem to be: what is once well done is done forever. But we love better to talk about it: that we say is our mission. Reform keeps many scores of newspapers in its service, but not one man." -Henry David Thoreau
"I have travelled a good deal in Concord; and everywhere, in shops, and offices, and fields, the inhabitants have appeared to me to be doing penance in a thousand remarkable ways. What I have heard of Bramins sitting exposed to four fires and looking in the face of the sun; or hanging suspended, with their heads downward, over flames; or looking at the heavens over their shoulders 'until it becomes impossible for them to resume their natural position, while from the twist of the neck nothing but liquids can pass into the stomach'; or dwelling, chained for life, at the foot of a tree; or measuring with their bodies, like caterpillars, the breadth of vast empires; or standing on one leg on the tops of pillars--even these forms of conscious penance are hardly more incredible and astonishing than the scenes which I daily witness. The" -Henry David Thoreau
"Cuán vano es sentarse a escribir cuando aún no te has parado para vivir." -Henry David Thoreau
"Каква е ползата от къща,ако нямаш сносна планета,на която да я поставиш..." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is a little star-dust caught, a segment of the rainbow which I have clutched." -Henry David Thoreau
"[I speak to] the mass of men who are discontented, and idly complaining of the hardness of their lot or of the times, when they might improve them. There are some who complain most energetically and inconsolably of any, because they are, as they say, doing their duty. I also have in my mind that seemingly wealthy, but most terribly impoverished class of all, who have accumulated dross, but know not how to use it, or get rid of it, and thus have forged their own golden or silver fetters." -Henry David Thoreau
"I rejoice that horses and steers have to be broken before they can be made the slaves of men, and that men themselves have some wild oats still left to sow before they become submissive members of society." -Henry David Thoreau
"it is remarkable that the wild apple, which I praise as so spirited and racy when eaten in the fields or woods, being brought into the house, has frequently a harsh and crabbed taste. The Saunter-er's Apple not even the saunterer can eat in the house." -Henry David Thoreau
"There are nowadays professors of philosophy, but not philosophers. Yet it is admirable to profess because it was once admirable to live." -Henry David Thoreau
"If you are acquainted with the principle, what do you care for a myriad instances and applications? To a philosopher all news, as it is called, is gossip," -Henry David Thoreau
"The respectable folks-- Where dwell they? They whisper in the oaks, And they sigh in the hay; Summer and winter, night and day, Out on the meadow, there dwell they. They never die, Nor snivel nor cry, Nor ask our pity With a wet eye. A sound estate they ever mend, To every asker readily lend To the ocean wealth, To the meadow health, To Time his length, To the rocks strength, To the stars light, To the weary night, To the busy day, To the idle play; And so their good cheer never ends, For all are their debtors, and all their friends." -Henry David Thoreau
"Che razza di Paese è quello che trasforma i campi di mirtilli in proprietà privata? Quando passo accanto a quei terreni lungo la strada, avverto nel petto un tuffo al cuore. Vedo la rovina incombere sulla terra. In quel luogo un velo si è steso sulla Natura. Mi allontano veloce dal posto maledetto. Niente può sfigurare maggiormente il suo bel volto. Non posso fare a meno d'immaginarlo per sempre come un luogo dove attraenti e gradevoli bacche si convertono in denaro, dove il mirtillo viene oltraggiato.È vero, esiste il diritto di trasformare le bacche in proprietà privata così come esiste quello di fare altrettanto dell'erba e degli alberi - un gesto non più grave di migliaia di altre pratiche accettate dall'uso - ma questa è la peggiore di tutte perché indica quanto esse siano negative e verso quale obiettivo la nostra civiltà e la divisione del lavoro tendano naturalmente, e cioè ad attribuire un prezzo a tutto." -Henry David Thoreau
"How could youths better learn to live than by at once trying the experiment of living? Methinks this would exercise their minds as much as mathematics. If I wished a boy to know something about the arts and sciences, for instance, I would not pursue the common course, which is merely to send him into the neighborhood of some professor, where anything is professed and practised but the art of life;--to survey the world through a telescope or a microscope, and never with his natural eye; to study chemistry, and not learn how his bread is made, or mechanics, and not learn how it is earned; to discover new satellites to Neptune, and not detect the motes in his eyes," -Henry David Thoreau
"Nothing is so much to be feared as fear." -Henry David Thoreau
"We see only the flowers that are under our feet in the meadows." -Henry David Thoreau
"I find it wholesome to be alone the greater part of the time. To be in company, even with the best, is soon wearisome and dissipating. I love to be alone. I never found the companion that was so companionable as solitude. We are for the most part more lonely when we go abroad among men than when we stay in our chambers. A man thinking or working is always alone, let him be where he will." -Henry David Thoreau
"What of architectural beauty I now see, I know has gradually grown from within outward, out of the necessities and character of the indweller, who is the only builder, – out of some unconscious truthfulness, and nobleness, without ever a thought for the appearance; and whatever additional beauty of this kind is destined to be produced will be preceded by a like unconscious beauty of life." -Henry David Thoreau
"I take all these walks to every point of the compass, and it is always harvest-time with me. I am always gathering my crop from these woods and fields and waters, and no man is in my way or interferes with me. My crop is not their crop. I am not gathering beans and corn. Do they think there are no fruits but such as these?" -Henry David Thoreau
"This is June, the month of grass and leaves … already the aspens are trembling again, and a new summer is offered me." -Henry David Thoreau
"However mean your life is, meet it and live it; do not shun it and call it hard names. It is not so bad as you are. It looks poorest when you are richest. The fault-finder will find faults even in paradise. Love your life, poor as it is. You may perhaps have some pleasant, thrilling, glorious hours, even in a poor-house. The setting sun is reflected from the windows of the alms-house as brightly as from the rich man's abode; the snow melts before its door as early in the spring. I do not see but a quiet mind may live as contentedly there, and have as cheering thoughts, as in a palace. The town's poor seem to me often to live the most independent lives of any. May be they are simply great enough to receive without misgiving. Most think that they are above being supported by the town; but it oftener happens that they are not above supporting themselves by dishonest means, which should be more disreputable. Cultivate poverty like a garden herb, like sage. Do not trouble yourself much to get new things, whether clothes or friends. Turn the old; return to them. Things do not change; we change. Sell your clothes and keep your thoughts. God will see that you do not want society." -Henry David Thoreau
"The morning, which is the most memorable season of the day, is the awakening hour. Then there is least somnolence in us; and for an hour, at least, some part of us awakes which slumbers all the rest of the day and night. Little is to be expected of that day, if it can be called a day, to which we are not awakened by our Genius, but by the mechanical nudgings of some servitor, are not awakened by our own newly acquired force and aspirations from within, accompanied by the undulations of celestial music, instead of factory bells, and a fragrance filling the air--to a higher life than we fell asleep from; and thus the darkness bear its fruit, and prove itself to be good, no less than the light." -Henry David Thoreau
"petty fears and petty pleasures are but the shadow of the reality." -Henry David Thoreau
"it's not what you look at that matters, it's what you see" -Henry David Thoreau
"You can hardly convince a man of an error in a lifetime, but must content yourself with the reflection that the progress of science is slow. If he is not convinced, his grandchildren may be. The geologists tell us that it took one hundred years to prove that fossils are organic, and one hundred and fifty more, to prove that they are not to be referred to the Noachian deluge." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is very dissipating to be with people too much ... I cannot spare my moonlight and my mountains for the best of man I am likely to get in exchange." -Henry David Thoreau
"You conquer fate by thought." -Henry David Thoreau
"natureIf the day and night be such that you greet them with joy, and life emits a fragrance like flowers and sweet-scented herbs, is more elastic, more immortal - that is your success. All nature is your congratulation, and you have cause momentarily to bless yourself. ~" -Henry David Thoreau
"For a year or two past my 'publisher,' falsely so called, has been writing from time to time to ask what disposition should be made of the copies of 'A Week on the Concord and the Merrimack Rivers' still on hand, and at last suggesting that he had use for the room they occupied in his cellar. So I had them all sent to me here, and they have arrived to-day by express, filling the man's wagon,--706 copies out of an edition of 1000 which I bought of Munroe four years ago and have been ever since paying for, and have not quite paid for yet. The wares are sent to me at last, and I have an opportunity to examine my purchase. They are something more substantial than fame, as my back knows, which has borne them up two flights of stairs to a place similar to that to which they trace their origin. Of the remaining two hundred and ninety, seventy-five were given away, the rest sold. I have now a library of nearly nine hundred volumes, over seven hundred of which I wrote myself.Is it not well that the author should behold the fruits of his labor?" -Henry David Thoreau
"Raste an vielen Bächen, an vielen Herdfeuern, und mache dir keine Sorgen. Gedenke deines Schöpfers in deiner Jugend. Erhebe dich, ehe der Morgen dämmert, sei unbekümmert und ziehe auf Abenteuer! Möge der Mittag dich auch an anderen Gewässern finden oder die Nacht dich überraschen, du bist überall zu Hause." -Henry David Thoreau
"Inde genus durum sumus, experiensque laborum, Et documenta damus qua simus origine nati. Or, as Raleigh rhymes it in his sonorous way,-- 'From thence our kind hard-hearted is, enduring pain and care, Approving that our bodies of a stony nature are." -Henry David Thoreau
"In the long run, you hit only what you aim for." -Henry David Thoreau
"Toda nuestra vida es sorprendentemente moral. No hay un instante de tregua entre la virtud y el vicio." -Henry David Thoreau
"… так высок мой род, Что не могу я быть ничьим слугой, Приказы получать, как подчиненный, Как подданный, и быть слепым орудием Какой-нибудь державы." -Henry David Thoreau
"The practical objection to animal food in my case was its uncleanness; and besides, when I had caught and cleaned and cooked and eaten my fish, they seemed not to have fed me essentially. It was insignificant and unnecessary, and cost more than it came to. A little bread or a few potatoes would have done as well, with less trouble and filth." -Henry David Thoreau
"If you chance to live and move and have your being in that thin stratum in which the events that make the news transpire- thinner than the paper on which it is printed- then these things will fill the world for you; but if you soar above or dive below that plane, you cannot remember nor be reminded of them. Really to see the sun rise or go down every day, so to relate ourselves to a universal fact, would preserve us sane forever." -Henry David Thoreau
"If one listens to the faintest but constant suggestions of his genius, which are certainly true, he sees not to what extremes, or even insanity, it may lead him; and yet that way, as he grows more resolute and faithful, his road lies. The faintest assured objection which one healthy man feels will at length prevail over the arguments and customs of mankind. No man ever followed his genius till it misled him. Though the result were bodily weakness, yet perhaps no one can say that the consequences were to be regretted, for these were a life in conformity to higher principles. If the day and the night are such that you greet them with joy, and life emits a fragrance like flowers and sweet-scented herbs, is more elastic, more starry, more immortal--that is your success. All nature is your congratulation, and you have cause momentarily to bless yourself." -Henry David Thoreau
"The works of the great poets have never yet been read by mankind, for only great poets can read them. Most men have learned to read to serve a paltry convenience, as they have learned to cipher in order to keep accounts and not be cheated in trade; but of reading as a noble intellectual exercise they know little or nothing; yet this only is reading, in a high sense, not that which lulls is as a luxury and suffers the nobler faculties to sleep the while, but what we have to stand on tiptoe to read and devote our most alert and wakeful hours to." -Henry David Thoreau
"This spending of the best part of one's life earning money in order to enjoy a questionable liberty during the least valuable part of it reminds me of the Englishman who went to India to make a fortune first, in order that he might return to England and live the life of a poet." -Henry David Thoreau
"The youth may build or plant or sail, only let him not be hindered from doing that which he tells me he would like to do. It is by a mathematical point only that we are wise, as the sailor or the fugitive slave keeps the polestar in his eye; but that is sufficient guidance for all our life. We may not arrive at our port within a calculable period, but we would preserve the true course." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is very evident what mean and sneaking lives many of you live, for my sight has been whetted by experience; always on the limits, trying to get into business and trying to get out of debt, a very ancient slough, called by the Latins aes alienum, another's brass, for some of their coins were made of brass; still living, and dying, and buried by this other's brass; always promising to pay, promising to pay, to-morrow, and dying to-day, insolvent..." -Henry David Thoreau
"Most of the luxuries, and many of the so-called comforts of life, are not only not indispensable, but positive hindrances to the elevation of mankind. With" -Henry David Thoreau
"A single gentle rain makes the grass many shades greener. So our prospects brighten on the influx of better thoughts." -Henry David Thoreau
"What is the price-current of an honest man and patriot today?" -Henry David Thoreau
"The sun is but a morning star." -Henry David Thoreau
"When I wish to recreate myself, I seek the darkest wood, the thickest and most interminable and, to the citizen, most dismal swamp. I enter a swamp as a sacred place -- a sanctum sanctorum ....A town is saved, not more by the righteous men in it than by the woods and swamps that surround it. A township where one primitive forest waves above while another primitive forest rots below,-- such a town is fitted to raise not only corn and potatoes, but poets and philosophers for the coming ages." -Henry David Thoreau
"The only way to tell the truth is to speak with kindness. Only the words of a loving man can be heard" -Henry David Thoreau
"Le gouvernement le meilleur est celui qui gouverne le moins." -Henry David Thoreau
"He teaches how to void excrement and urine and the like, elevating what is mean, and does not falsely excuse himself by calling these things trifles." -Henry David Thoreau
"I made a study of the ancient and indispensable art of bread-making," -Henry David Thoreau
"If there is not a new man, how can the new clothes be made to fit? If you have any enterprise before you, try it in your old clothes." -Henry David Thoreau
"What I have heard of Bramins sitting exposed to four fires and looking in the face of the sun; or hanging suspended, with their heads downward, over flames; or looking at the heavens over their shoulders 'until it becomes impossible for them to resume their natural position, while from the twist of the neck nothing but liquids can pass into the stomach'; or dwelling, chained for life, at the foot of a tree; or measuring with their bodies, like caterpillars, the breadth of vast empires; or standing on one leg on the tops of pillars--even these forms of conscious penance are hardly more incredible and astonishing than the scenes which I daily witness" -Henry David Thoreau
"Ancient poetry and mythology suggest, at least, that husbandry was once a sacred art; but it is pursued with irreverent haste and heedlessness by us, our object being to have large farms and large crops merely. We have no festival, nor procession, nor ceremony, not excepting our cattle-shows and so-called Thanksgivings, by which the farmer expresses a sense of the sacredness of his calling, or is reminded of its sacred origin. It is the premium and the feast which tempt him. He sacrifices not to Ceres and the Terrestrial Jove, but to the infernal Plutus rather." -Henry David Thoreau
"When we consider what, to use the words of the catechism, is the chief end of man, and what are the true necessaries and means of life, it appears as if men had deliberately chosen the common mode of living because they preferred it to any other. Yet they honestly think there is no choice left. But alert and healthy natures remember that the sun rose clear. It is never too late to give up our prejudices." -Henry David Thoreau
"Una Minoranza che si conformi alla maggioranza è senza forza, non è neppure più una minoranza; ma diventa irresistibile quando si oppone con tutto il suo peso." -Henry David Thoreau
"In the large towns and cities, where civilization especially prevails, the number of those who own a shelter is a very small fraction of the whole. The rest pay an annual tax for this outside garment of all, become indispensable summer and winter, which would buy a village of Indian wigwams, but now helps to keep them poor as long as they live." -Henry David Thoreau
"When sometimes I am reminded that the mechanics and shopkeepers stay in their shops not only all the forenoon, but all the afternoon too, sitting with crossed legs, so many of them--as if the legs were made to sit upon, and not to stand or walk upon--I think that they deserve some credit for not having all committed suicide long ago. I," -Henry David Thoreau
"As if there were safety in stupidity alone." -Henry David Thoreau
"A written word is the choicest of relics. It is something at once more intimate with us and more universal than any other work of art. It is the work of art nearest to life itself. It may be translated into every language, and not only be read but actually breathed from all human lips;" -Henry David Thoreau
"Why level downward to our dullest perception always, and praise that as common sense? The commonest sense is the sense of men asleep, which they express by snoring. Sometimes we are inclined to class those who are once-and-a-half witted with the half-witted, because we appreciate only a third part of their wit. Some would find fault with the morning-red, if they ever got up early enough. 'They pretend,' as I hear, 'that the verses of Kabir have four different senses; illusion, spirit, intellect, and the exoteric doctrine of the Vedas;' but in this part of the world it is considered a ground for complaint if a man's writings admit of more than one interpretation. While England endeavors to cure the potato-rot, will not any endeavor to cure the brain-rot, which prevails so much more widely and fatally?" -Henry David Thoreau
"There's no new news, just old news with new dates" -Henry David Thoreau
"The whole of the day should not be daytime, nor of the night night-time, but some portion be rescued from time to oversee time in. All our hours must not be current; all our time must not lapse. There must be one hour at least which the day did not bring forth--of ancient parentage and long established nobility--which will be a serene and lofty platform overlooking the rest. We should make our notch every day on our characters, as Robinson Crusoe on his stick. We must be at the helm at least once a day; we must feel the tiller-rope in our hands, and know that if we sail, we steer." -Henry David Thoreau
"There is an incessant influx of novelty into the world, and yet we tolerate incredible dulness. I" -Henry David Thoreau
"It is never too late to give up our prejudices. No way of thinking or doing, however ancient, can be trusted without proof. What everybody echoes or in silence passes by as true to-day may turn out to be falsehood to-morrow, mere smoke of opinion, which some had trusted for a cloud that would sprinkle fertilizing rain on their fields. What old people say you cannot do, you try and find that you can. Old deeds for old people, and new deeds for new." -Henry David Thoreau
"A driving snow-storm in the night and still raging; five or six inches deep on a level at 7 A.M. All birds are turned into snowbirds. Trees and houses have put on the aspect of winter. The traveller's carriage wheels, the farmer's wagon, are converted into white disks of snow through which the spokes hardly appear. But it is good now to stay in the house and read and write. We do not now go wandering all abroad and dissipated, but the imprisoning storm condenses our thoughts. I can hear the clock tick as not in pleasant weather. My life is enriched. I love to hear the wind howl. I have a fancy for sitting with my book or paper in some mean and apparently unfavorable place, in the kitchen, for instance, where the work is going on, rather a little cold than comfortable." -Henry David Thoreau
"Non conosco nulla di più incoraggiante dell'incontestabile capacità dell'uomo di elevare la propria vita con uno sforzo cosciente." -Henry David Thoreau
"I am surprised that we make no more ado about echoes. They are almost the only kindred voices that I hear." -Henry David Thoreau
"Az ország sorsa nem azon múlik, hogy miként szavazol, mert ebben a játékban a legsilányabb ember is ugyanannyit ér, mint a legjobb; nem azon múlik, hogy milyen papírt engedsz a kezedből a szavazóurnába egyszer egy évben, hanem hogy milyen embert engedsz a szobádból az utcára minden egyes reggel." -Henry David Thoreau
"I foresee, that, if my wants should be much increased, the labor required to supply them would become a drudgery." -Henry David Thoreau
"One farmer says to me, 'You cannot live on vegetable food solely, for it furnishes nothing to make bones with'; and so he religiously devotes a part of his day to supplying his system with the raw material of bones; walking all the while he talks behind his oxen, which, with vegetable-made bones, jerk him and his lumbering plow along in spite of every obstacle." -Henry David Thoreau
"Der Mensch behauptet, viel zu wissen;Doch seht nur, wie sie überschießen,Die Künste und die Wissenschaften,Die tausend Errungenschaften;Der Wind, der weht,Ist alles, was er versteht." -Henry David Thoreau
"At present men make shift to wear what they can get. Like shipwrecked sailors, they put on what they can find on the beach, and at a little distance, whether of space or time, laugh at each other's masquerade." -Henry David Thoreau
"In short, I am convinced, both by faith and experience, that to maintain one's self on this earth is not a hardship but a pastime, if we will live simply and wisely; as the pursuits of the simpler nations are still the sports of the more artificial. It is not neccessary that a man should earn his living by the sweat of his brow, unless he sweats easier than I do." -Henry David Thoreau
"Solitude is not measured by the miles of space that intervene between a man and his fellows." -Henry David Thoreau
"The hawk is aerial brother of the wave which he sails over and surveys, those his perfect air-inflated wings answering to the elemental unfledged pinions of the sea." -Henry David Thoreau
"This shall be the test of innocence--if I can hear a taunt, and look out on this friendly moon, pacing the heavens in queen-like majesty, with the accustomed yearning." -Henry David Thoreau
"The life which men praise and regard as successful is but one kind." -Henry David Thoreau
"If a man constantly aspires is he not elevated." -Henry David Thoreau
"but the adventurous student will always study classics, in whatever language they may be written and however ancient they may be. For what are the classics but the noblest recorded thoughts of man? They are the only oracles which are not decayed, and there are such answers to the most modern inquiry in them as Delphi and Dodona never gave. We might as well omit to study Nature because she is old. To read well, that is, to read true books in a true spirit, is a noble exercise, and one that will task the reader more than any exercise which the customs of the day esteem. It requires a training such as the athletes underwent, the steady intention almost of the whole life to this object. Books must be read as deliberately and reservedly as they were written. It is not enough even to be able to speak the language of that nation by which they are written, for there is a memorable interval between the spoken and the written language, the language heard and the language read. The one is commonly transitory, a sound, a tongue, a dialect merely, almost brutish, and we learn it unconsciously, like the brutes, of our mothers. The other is the maturity and experience of that; if that is our mother tongue, this is our father tongue, a reserved and select expression, too significant to be heard by the ear, which we must be born again in order to speak. The crowds of men who merely spoke the Greek and Latin tongues in the Middle Ages were not entitled by the accident of birth to read the works of genius written in those languages; for these were not written in that Greek or Latin which they knew, but in the select language of literature. They had not learned the nobler dialects of Greece and Rome, but the very materials on which they were written were waste paper to them, and they prized instead a cheap contemporary literature. But when the several nations of Europe had acquired distinct though rude written languages of their own, sufficient for the purposes of their rising literatures, then first learning revived, and scholars were enabled to discern from that remoteness the treasures of antiquity. What the Roman and Grecian multitude could not hear, after the lapse of ages a few scholars read, and a few scholars only are still reading it." -Henry David Thoreau
"We are more of the earth,Farther from heaven these days." -Henry David Thoreau
"Les détails nous empoisonnent la vie. Simplifiez, simplifiez." -Henry David Thoreau
"The heroic books, even if printed in the character of our mother tongue, will always be in a language dead to degenerate times" -Henry David Thoreau
"We are for the most part more lonely when we go abroad among men than when we stay in our chambers." -Henry David Thoreau
"This American government--what is it but a tradition, though a recent one, endeavoring to transmit itself unimpaired to posterity, but each instant losing some of its integrity? It has not the vitality and force of a single living man; for a single man can bend it to his will. It is a sort of wooden gun to the people themselves. But it is not the less necessary for this; for the people must have some complicated machinery or other, and hear its din, to satisfy that idea of government which they have. Governments show thus how successfully men can be imposed upon, even impose on themselves, for their own advantage. It is excellent, we must all allow. Yet this government never of itself furthered any enterprise, but by the alacrity with which it got out of its way." -Henry David Thoreau
"You can't read any genuine history--as that of Herodotus or the Venerable Bede--without perceiving that our interest depends not on the subject but on the man,--on the manner in which he treats the subject and the importance he gives it. A feeble writer and without genius must have what he thinks a great theme, which we are already interested in through the accounts of others, but a genius--a Shakespeare, for instance--would make the history of his parish more interesting than another's history of the world." -Henry David Thoreau
"Si tenéis alguna empresa ante vosotros, tratad de hacerla con las ropas viejas. A los hombres les hace falta, no algo con lo que hacer, sino algo que hacer, o mejor, algo que ser. Tal vez no deberíamos procurarnos un traje nuevo, por harapiento y sucio que esté el viejo, hasta no habernos conducido, empeñado o embarcado de tal modo que podamos sentirnos hombres nuevos en el viejo." -Henry David Thoreau
"The life which society proposes to me to live is so artificial and complex--bolstered up on many weak supports, and sure to topple down at last--that no man surely can ever be inspired to live it." -Henry David Thoreau
"What we will call beautiful Knowledge, a knowledge useful in a higher sense: for what is most of our boated so-called knowledge but a conceit that we know something, which robs us of the advantage of our actual ignorance?" -Henry David Thoreau
"The indescribable innocence and beneficence of Nature,- of sun and wind and rain, of summer and winter,-such health, such cheer, they afford forever!...Shall I not have intelligence with the earth? Am I not partly leaves and vegetable mould myself?" -Henry David Thoreau
"I have found that no exertion of the legs can bring two minds much nearer to one another." -Henry David Thoreau
"When we heard at first [John Brown] was dead, one of my townsmen observed that 'he died as the fool dieth'; which, pardon me, for an instant suggested a likeness in him dying to my neighbor living. Others, craven-hearted, said disparagingly, that 'he threw his life away' because he resisted the government. Which ways have they thrown their lives, pray? ---such would praise a man for attacking singly an ordinary band of thieves and murderers. I hear another ask, Yankee-like, 'What will he gain by it?' as if he expected to fill his pockets by their enterprise. Such a one has no idea of gain but in this worldly sense. If it does not lead to a 'surprise' party, if he does not gain a new pair of boots, or a vote of thanks, it must be a failure. 'But he won't gain anything by it.' Well, no, I don;t suppose he could get four-and-sixpence a day for being hung, take the year round; but he stands a chance to save a considerable part of his soul- and what a soul!- when you do not. No doubt you can get more in your market for a quart of milk than a quart of blood, but that is not the market heroes carry their blood to." -Henry David Thoreau
"Time is but the stream I go a-fishing in. I drink at it; but while I drink, I see the sandy bottom and detect how shallow it is. It's thin current slides away, but eternity remains. I would drink deeper; fish in the sky, whose bottom is pebbly with stars." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is in vain to write on the seasons unless you have the seasons in you." -Henry David Thoreau
"Every man has to learn the points of compass again as often as he awakes, whether from sleep or any abstraction. Not till we are lost, in other words not till we have lost the world, do we begin to find ourselves, and realize where we are and the infinite extent of our relations." -Henry David Thoreau
"Todo lo bueno es libre y salvaje" -Henry David Thoreau
"Las obras de los grandes poetas aún no han sido leídas por la humanidad -sólo los grandes poetas son capaces de leerlas-. Las masas, sin embargo, las leen como si leyeran las estrellas…; si hay suerte, como astrólogos, pero no como astrónomos. A la mayoría de las personas se les enseña a leer sólo para su propia comodidad, como si se les enseñará a contar para que puedan comprobar las cuentas y no ser engañados. Pero del leer como noble ejercicio intelectual no tienen idea; además, sólo hay una cosa que se puede llamar leer en el más alto sentido de la palabra: no aquello que nos adormece narcotizando nuestros más altos sentimientos, sino aquello a lo que hay que acercarse de puntillas, aquello a lo que dedicamos nuestras mejores horas de vigilia'." -Henry David Thoreau
"Some are 'industrious' and appear to love labor for its own sake, or perhaps because it keeps them out of worse mischief; to such I have at present nothing to say." -Henry David Thoreau
"I believed that the woods were not tenantless, but choke-full of honest spirits as good as myself any day– not an empty chamber in which chemistry was left to work alone, but an inhabited house. It suggested, too, that the same experience always gives birth to the same sort of belief or religion. One revelation has been made to the Indian, another to the white man. I have much to learn of the Indian, nothing of the missionary. I am not sure but all that would tempt me to teach the Indian my religion would be his promise to teach me his. Long enough I had heard of irrelevant things; now at length I was glad to make acquaintance with the light that dwells in rotten wood." -Henry David Thoreau
"My soul and body have tottered along together of late, tripping and hindering one another like unpracticed Siamese twins." -Henry David Thoreau
"Men see God in the ripple, but not in miles of still water. Of all the two thousand miles that the St. Lawrence flows, pilgrims go only to Niagara." -Henry David Thoreau
"I went to the woods because I wished to live deliberately... I wanted to live deep and suck all the marrow out of life! To put to rout all that was not life... and not, when I came to die, discover that I had not lived." -Henry David Thoreau
"The rest pay an annual tax for this outside garment of all, become indispensable summer and winter, which would buy a village of Indian wigwams, but now helps to keep them poor as long as they live." -Henry David Thoreau
"The morning, which is the most memorable season of the day, is the awakening hour. Then there is least somnolence in us; and for an hour, at least, some part of us awakes which slumbers all the rest of the day and night." -Henry David Thoreau
"Es waren schöne Frühlingstage. Der Winter menschlichen Mißvergnügens begann wie die Erde aufzutauen, das erstarrte Leben sich auszudehnen." -Henry David Thoreau
"After all, the man whose horse trots a mile in a minute does not carry the most important messages;" -Henry David Thoreau
"An efficient and valuable man does what he can, whether the community pay him for it or not." -Henry David Thoreau
"He has no time to be anything but a machine. How can he remember well his ignorance--which his growth requires--who has so often to use his knowledge? We should feed and clothe him gratuitously sometimes, and recruit him with our cordials, before we judge of him. The" -Henry David Thoreau
"Ценността на човека не е в кожата му, та да е нужно да го докосваме, за да го оценим." -Henry David Thoreau
"I also have in mind that seemingly wealthy, but most terribly impoverished class of all, who have accumulated dross, but not know not how to use it, or get rid of it, and thus have forged their own golden or silver fetters." -Henry David Thoreau
"No face which we can give to a matter will stead us so well at last as the truth." -Henry David Thoreau
"The nonchalance and dolce-far-niente air of nature and society hint at infinite periods in the progress of mankind." -Henry David Thoreau
"that he live in all respects so compactly and preparedly that, if an enemy take the town, he can, like the old philosopher, walk out the gate empty-handed without anxiety." -Henry David Thoreau
"Instead of noblemen, let us have noble villages of men. If it is necessary, omit one bridge over the river, go round a little there, and throw one arch at least over the darker gulf of ignorance which surrounds us." -Henry David Thoreau
"Let men cultivate the moral affections, lead manly independent lives; let them make riches the means and not the end of existence, and we shall hear no more of the commercial spirit. . . . This curious world which we inhabit is more wonderful than it is convenient; more beautiful than it is useful; it is more to be admired and enjoyed than used." -Henry David Thoreau
"Старость годится в наставники не больше, если не меньше, чем юность, -- она не столькому научилась, сколько утратила." -Henry David Thoreau
"I enter a swamp as a sacred place--a sanctum sanctorum. There is the strength--the marrow of Nature." -Henry David Thoreau
"Jamás existirá un Estado realmente libre e iluminado hasta cuando ese Estado reconozca al individuo como un poder más alto e independiente, del cual se deriva su propio poder y autoridad y lo trate de acuerdo a ello. Me complace imaginar un Estado que finalmente pueda darse el lujo de ser justo con todos, y que trate al individuo con respecto; más aún, que no llegue a pensar que es inconsistente con su propia tranquilidad si unos cuantos viven separados de él, no mezclándose con él, sin abrazarlo, pero cumpliendo con su obligación de vecinos y compañeros." -Henry David Thoreau
"Most men appear never to have considered what a house is, and are actually though needlessly poor all their lives because they think that they must have such a one as their neighbors have. As if one were to wear any sort of coat which the tailor might cut out for him, or gradually leaving off palm-leaf hat or cap of woodchuck skin, complain of hard times because he could not afford to buy him a crown!" -Henry David Thoreau
"My profession is to be always on the alert to find God in nature, to know his lurking-places, to attend all the oratorios, the operas in nature." -Henry David Thoreau
"friends will be much apart.they will respect more other's privacy than their communion." -Henry David Thoreau
"We all have our states of fullness and of emptiness, but we overflow at different points. One overflows through the sensual outlets, another through his heart, another through his head, and another perchance only through the higher part of his head, or his poetic faculty. It depends on where each is tight and open. We can, perchance, then direct our nutriment to those organs we specially use." -Henry David Thoreau
"Oameni cu o singură idee, ca o găină cu un singur pui, și acela de rata;oameni cu o mie de idei, ca acele găini care sunt forțate să ia în grijă o sută de pui. toți în urmărirea unui singur gândac, câteva zeci dintre ei rătăciți în roua dimineții - și devenind ciufuliți și soioși în consecință; oameni cu idei în loc de picioare, un fel de miriapozi intelectuali care vă fac să vă târâți peste tot." -Henry David Thoreau
"we think that if rail-fences are pulled down, and stone-walls piled up on our farms, bounds are henceforth set to our lives and our fates decided. If you are chosen town-clerk, forsooth, you cannot go to Tierra del Fuego this summer: but you may go to the land of infernal fire nevertheless. The universe is wider than our views of it." -Henry David Thoreau
"We rarely meet a man who can tell us any news which he has not read in a newspaper, or been told by his neighbor; and, for the most part, the only difference between us and our fellow is, that he has seen the newspaper, or been out to tea, and we have not." -Henry David Thoreau
"I do believe in simplicity. It is astonishing as well as sad, how many trivial affairs even the wisest thinks he must attend to in a day;…so simplify the problem of life, distinguish the necessary and the real." -Henry David Thoreau
"I sometimes despair of getting anything quite simple and honest done in this world by the help of men. They would have to be passed through a powerful press first, to squeeze their old notions out of them, so that they would not soon get upon their legs again; and then there would be some one in the company with a maggot in his head, hatched from an egg deposited there nobody knows when, for not even fire kills these things, and you would have lost your labor." -Henry David Thoreau
"Simply to see to a distant horizon through a clear air,--the fine outline of a distant hill or a blue mountain-top through some new vista,--this is wealth enough for one afternoon." -Henry David Thoreau
"I would remind my countrymen, that they are to be men first, and Americans only at a late and convenient hour. No matter how valuable law may be to protect your property, even to keep soul and body together, if it do not keep you and humanity together." -Henry David Thoreau
"You who govern public affairs, what need have you to employ punishments? Love virtue, and the people will be virtuous. The virtues of a superior man are like the wind; the virtues of a common man are like the grass--the grass, when the wind passes over it, bends." -Henry David Thoreau
"should not every apartment in which man dwells be lofty enough to create some obscurity overhead, where flickering shadows may play at evening about rafters?" -Henry David Thoreau
"heartily accept the motto, 'That government is best which governs least'; and I should like to see it acted up to more rapidly and systematically. Carried out, it finally amounts to this, which also I believe--'That government is best which governs not at all'; and when men are prepared for it, that will be the kind of government which they will have. Government is at best but an expedient; but most governments are usually, and all governments are sometimes, inexpedient." -Henry David Thoreau
"Go confidently in the direction of your dreams. Live the life you have imagined." -Henry David Thoreau
"By the mood of my mind, I suddenly felt dissuaded from continuing my walk, but I observed at the same instant that the shadow of a cloud was passing over the spot on which I stood, though it was of small extent, which, if it had no connection with my mood, at any rate suggested how transient and little to be regarded that mood was." -Henry David Thoreau
"How watchful we must be to keep the crystal well that we were made, clear!--that it be not made turbid by our contact with the world, so that it will not reflect objects. What other liberty is there worth having, if we have not freedom and peace in our minds,--if our inmost and most private man is but a sour and turbid pool? Often we are so jarred by chagrins in dealing with the world, that we cannot reflect." -Henry David Thoreau
"quarrel not with far-off foes, but with those who, near at home, co-operate with, and do the bidding of those far away," -Henry David Thoreau
"As for adopting the ways which the State has provided for remedying the evil, I know not of such ways. They take too much time, and a man's life will be gone. I have other affairs to attend to. I came into this world, not chiefly to make this a good place to live in, but to live in it, be it good or bad. A man has not everything to do, but something; and because he cannot do everything, it is not necessary that he should do something wrong." -Henry David Thoreau
"Πόσο μάταιο είναι να κάθεσαι για να γράψεις, όταν δεν έχεις σηκωθεί για να ζήσεις!" -Henry David Thoreau
"Go confidently in the direction of your dreams,Live the life you have imagined." -Henry David Thoreau
"Again, I sometimes say to myself, When many millions of men, without heat, without ill will, without personal feelings of any kind, demand of you a few shillings only, without the possibility, such is their constitution, of retracting or altering their present demand, and without the possibility, on your side, of appeal to any other millions, why expose yourself to this overwhelming brute force?" -Henry David Thoreau
"We worship not the Graces, nor the Parcae, but Fashion. She spins and weaves and cuts with full authority. The head monkey at Paris puts on a traveller's cap, and all the monkeys in America do the same. I" -Henry David Thoreau
"I was never molested by any person but those who represented the State." -Henry David Thoreau
"No wealth can buy the requisite leisure, freedom, and independence which are the capital in this profession." -Henry David Thoreau
"There are other, savager, and more primeval aspects of Nature than our poets have sung. It is only white man's poetry. Homer and Ossian even can never revive in London or Boston. And yet behold how these cities are refreshed by the mere tradition, or the imperfectly transmitted fragance and flavor of these wild fruits. If we could listen but for an instant to the chaunt of the Indian muse, we should understand why he will not exchange his savageness for civilization. Nations are not whimsical. Steel and blankets are strong temptations; but the Indian does well to continue Indian." -Henry David Thoreau
"I would observe, by the way, that it costs me nothing for curtains, for I have no gazers to shut out but the sun and moon, and I am willing that they should look in. The moon will not sour milk nor taint meat of mine, nor will the sun injure my furniture or fade my carpet; and if he is sometimes too warm a friend, I find it still better economy to retreat behind some curtain which nature has provided, than to add a single item to the details of housekeeping. A lady once offered me a mat, but as I had no room to spare within the house, nor time to spare within or without to shake it, I declined it, preferring to wipe my feet on the sod before my door. It is best to avoid the beginnings of evil." -Henry David Thoreau
"By a seeming fate, commonly called necessity, they are employed, as it says in an old book, laying up treasures which moth and rust will corrupt and thieves break through and steal. It is a fool's life, as they will find when they get to the end of it, if not before. It" -Henry David Thoreau
"How we eat, drink, sleep, and use our desultory hours, now in these indifferent days, with no eye to observe and no occasion to excite us, determines our authority and capacity for the time to come." -Henry David Thoreau
"Superfluous wealth can buy superfluities only. Money is not required to buy one necessary of the soul." -Henry David Thoreau
"I sometimes try my acquaintances by such tests as this;-- who could wear a patch, or two extra seams only, over the knee? Most behave as if they believed that their prospects for life would be ruined if they should do it. It would be easier for them to hobble to town with a broken leg than with a broken pantaloon." -Henry David Thoreau
"There is no scent in it so wholesome as that of the pines, nor any fragrance so penetrating and restorative as the life-everlasting in high pastures." -Henry David Thoreau
"We have built for this world a family mansion, and for the next a family tomb. The best works of art are the expression of man's struggle to free himself from this condition, but the effect of our art is merely to make this low state comfortable and that higher state to be forgotten." -Henry David Thoreau
"I have come to this hill to see the sun go down, to recover sanity and put myself again in relation with Nature." -Henry David Thoreau
"Warum leben wir in solcher Hast, mit solcher Vergeudung von Leben? Wir glauben, Hungers zu sterben, bevor wir hungrig sind. Es heißt, 'ein Stich zur rechten Zeit erspart neun andere' - also werden lieber gleich tausend Stiche gemacht, um neun für den nächsten Tag zu ersparen." -Henry David Thoreau
"Celui qui ne résiste pas ne sera jamais vaincu." -Henry David Thoreau
"-- " -Henry David Thoreau
"I trust that none will stretch the seams in putting on the coat, for it may do good service to him whom it fits." -Henry David Thoreau
"Si vous voulez convaincre un homme qu'il agit mal, agissez bien. Mais ne vous souciez pas de le convaincre. Les hommes croient ce qu'ils voient. Alors, donnez-leur à voir." -Henry David Thoreau
"Nature is a personality so vast and universal that we have never seen one of her features." -Henry David Thoreau
"We shall see but little if we require to understand what we see. How few things can a man measure with the tape of his understanding! How many greater things might he be seeing in the meanwhile!" -Henry David Thoreau
"Some of you, we all know, are poor, find it hard to live, are sometimes, as it were, gasping for breath." -Henry David Thoreau
"In proportion as he simplifies his life, the laws of the universe will appear less complex, and solitude will not be solitude, nor poverty poverty, nor weakness weakness. If you have built castles in the air, your work need not be lost; that is where they should be. Now put the foundations under them." -Henry David Thoreau
"I would fain keep sober always; and there are infinite degrees of drunkenness. I" -Henry David Thoreau
"Some men wonder at the monuments of the west and the east - to know who built them. For my part I should like to know who, in those days, did not build them, who were above such trifling" -Henry David Thoreau
"With thinking we may be beside ourselves in a sane sense. By a conscious effort of the mind we can stand aloof from actions and their consequences; and all things, good and bad, go by us like a torrent. We are not wholly involved in Nature. I may be either the driftwood in the stream, or Indra in the sky looking down on it." -Henry David Thoreau
"N-am întâlnit niciodată un tovarăș care să-mi țină o companie mai bună decât solitudinea." -Henry David Thoreau
"This spending of the best part of one's life earning money in order to enjoy a questionable liberty during the least valuable part of it reminds me of the Englishman who went to India to make a fortune first, in order that he might return to England and live the life of a poet. He should have gone up garret at once. 'What!' exclaim a million Irishmen starting up from all the shanties in the land, 'is not this railroad which we have built a good thing?' Yes, I answer, comparatively good, that is, you might have done worse; but I wish, as you are brothers of mine, that you could have spent your time better than digging in this dirt." -Henry David Thoreau
"To act collectively is according to the spirit of our institutions; and I am confident that, as our circumstances are more flourishing, our means are greater than the nobleman's." -Henry David Thoreau
"Wir haben heute Professoren der Philosophie, aber keine Philosophen." -Henry David Thoreau
"Books of natural history make the most cheerful winter reading. I read in Audubon with a thrill of delight, when the snow covers the ground, of the magnolia, and the Florida keys, and their warm sea breezes; of the fence-rail, and the cotton-tree, and the migrations of the rice-bird; of the breaking up of winter in Labrador, and the melting of the snow on the forks of the Missouri; and owe an accession of health to these reminiscences of luxuriant nature." -Henry David Thoreau
"Nothing was ever so unfamiliar and startling to a man as his own thoughts" -Henry David Thoreau
"I have read in a Hindoo book, that 'there was a king's son, who, being expelled in infancy from his native city, was brought up by a forester, and, growing up to maturity in that state, imagined himself to belong to the barbarous race with which he lived. One of his father's ministers having discovered him, revealed to him what he was, and the misconception of his character was removed, and he knew himself to be a prince. So soul,' continues the Hindoo philosopher, 'from the circumstances in which it is placed, mistakes its own character, until the truth is revealed to it by some holy teacher, and then it knows itself to be Brahme." -Henry David Thoreau
"all good things are wild and free" -Henry David Thoreau
"The progress from an absolute to a limited monarchy, from a limited monarchy to a democracy, is a progress toward a true respect for the individual. Is a democracy, such as we know it, the last improvement possible in government? Is it not possible to take a step further towards recognizing and organizing the rights of man? There will never be a really free and enlightened State, until the State comes to recognize the individual as a higher and independent power, from which all its own power and authority are derived, and treats him accordingly." -Henry David Thoreau
"We are more anxious to speak than to be heard" -Henry David Thoreau
"Every man looks at his wood-pile with a kind of affection. I love to have mine before my window, and the more chips the better to remind me of my pleasing work. I had an old axe which nobody claimed, with which by spells in winter days, on the sunny side of the house, I played about the stumps which I had got out of my bean-field. As my driver prophesied when I was plowing, they warmed me twice--once while I was splitting them, and again when they were on the fire, so that no fuel could give out more heat. As for the axe, I was advised to get the village blacksmith to 'jump' it; but I jumped him, and, putting a hickory helve from the woods into it, made it do. If it was dull, it was at least hung true. A few pieces of fat pine were a great treasure. It is interesting to remember how much of this food for fire is still concealed in the bowels of the earth. In previous years I had often gone prospecting over some bare hillside, where a pitch pine wood had formerly stood, and got out the fat pine roots. They are almost indestructible. Stumps thirty or forty years old, at least, will still be sound at the core, though the sapwood has all become vegetable mould, as appears by the scales of the thick bark forming a ring level with the earth four or five inches distant from the heart. With axe and shovel you explore this mine, and follow the marrowy store, yellow as beef tallow, or as if you had struck on a vein of gold, deep into the earth." -Henry David Thoreau
"I had three pieces of limestone on my desk, but I was terrified to find that they required to be dusted daily, when the furniture of my mind was all undusted still, and I threw them out the window in disgust. How, then, could I have a furnished house? I would rather sit in the open air, for no dust gathers on the grass, unless where man has broken ground" -Henry David Thoreau
"The greater part of what my neighbors call good I believe in my soul to be bad, and if I repent of anything, it is very likely to be my good behavior. What demon possessed me that I behaved so well?" -Henry David Thoreau
"Prefiero caminar entre los bosques a ser rey de alguna nación" -Henry David Thoreau
"Eurus ad Auroram Nabathaeaque regna recessit, Persidaque, et radiis juga subdita matutinis.' 'The East-Wind withdrew to Aurora and the Nabathæn kingdom, And the Persian, and the ridges placed under the morning rays. Man was born. Whether that Artificer of things, The origin of a better world, made him from the divine seed; Or the earth, being recent and lately sundered from the high Ether, retained some seeds of cognate heaven." -Henry David Thoreau
"The Church has much improved within a few years; but the Press is almost, without exception, corrupt. I believe that, in this country, the press exerts a greater and a more pernicious influence, than the Church did in its worst period. We are not a religious people, but we are a nation of politicians. We do not care for the Bible, but we do care for the newspaoer," -Henry David Thoreau
"It is remarkable that such delicate flowers should here adorn these wilderness paths." -Henry David Thoreau
"I want a whole continent to breathe in, and a good deal of solitude and silence, such as all Wall Street cannot buy, -- nor Broadway with its wooden pavement. I must live along the beach, on the southern shore, which looks directly out to sea, -- and see what that great parade of water means, that dashes and roars, and has not yet wet me, as long as I have lived." -Henry David Thoreau
"Adaletsiz yasalar var: bunlara uymalı mıyız yoksa değiştirmek için çaba mı göstermeliyiz? Ya da yasa değişene kadar uymalı mıyız yoksa bir defada çiğneyip geçmeli miyiz?" -Henry David Thoreau
"I think that there is nothing, not even crime, more opposed to poetry, to philosophy, ay, to life itself, than this incessant business." -Henry David Thoreau
"I have paid no poll-tax for six years. I was put into a jail once on this account, for one night; and, as I stood considering the walls of solid stone, two or three feet thick, the door of wood and iron, a foot thick, and the iron grating which strained the light, I could not help being struck with the foolishness of that institution which treated me as if I were mere flesh and blood and bones, to be locked up. I wondered that it should have concluded at length that this was the best use it could put me to, and had never thought to avail itself of my services in some way. I saw that, if there was a wall of stone between me and my townsmen, there was a still more difficult one to climb or break through before they could get to be as free as I was. I did not for a moment feel confined, and the walls seemed a great waste of stone and mortar. I felt as if I alone of all my townsmen had paid my tax." -Henry David Thoreau
"To speak impartially, the best men that I know are not serene, a world in themselves. For the most part, they dwell in forms, and flatter and study effect only more finely than the rest. We select granite for the underpinning of our houses and barns; we build fences of stone; but we do not ourselves rest on an underpinning of granitic truth, the lowest primitive rock. Our sills are rotten. What stuff is the man made of who is not coexistent in our thought with the purest and subtilest truth? I often accuse my finest acquaintances of an immense frivolity; for, while there are manners and compliments we do not meet, we do not teach one another the lessons of honesty and sincerity that the brutes do, or of steadiness and solidity that the rocks do. The fault is commonly mutual, however; for we do not habitually demand any more of each other." -Henry David Thoreau
"Most men, even in this comparatively free country, through mere ignorance and mistake, are so occupied with the factitious cares and superfluously coarse labors of life that its finer fruits cannot be plucked by them. Their" -Henry David Thoreau
"In most books, the I, or first person, is omitted; in this it will be retained; that, in respect to egotism, is the main difference. We commonly do not remember that it is,after all, always the first person that is speaking." -Henry David Thoreau
"A man, any man, will go considerably out of his way to pick up a silver dollar; but here are golden words, which the wisest men of antiquity have uttered, and whose worth the wise of every succeeding age have assured us of..." -Henry David Thoreau
"The boy gathers materials for a temple, and then when he is thirty, concludes to build a woodshed" -Henry David Thoreau
"fields, honestly free from all worldly engagements. You might also correctly say," -Henry David Thoreau
"En büyük ve en yaygın hataların sürdürülebilmesi için olabildiğince tarafsız bir erdem gerekir." -Henry David Thoreau
"I did not read books the first summer; I hoed beans" -Henry David Thoreau
"Some do not walk at all; others walk in the highways; a few walk across lots. Roads are made for horses and men of business. I do not travel in them much, comparatively, because I am not in a hurry to get to any tavern or grocery or livery-stable or depot to which they lead." -Henry David Thoreau
"But what is that to the purpose? A living dog is better than a dead lion. Shall a man go and hang himself because he belongs to the race of pygmies, and not be the biggest pygmy that he can? Let every one mind his own business, and endeavor to be what he was made." -Henry David Thoreau
"No doubt they can ride at last who shall have earned their fare, that is, if they survive so long, but they will probably have lost their elasticity and desire to travel by that time. This spending of the best part of one's life earning money in order to enjoy a questionable liberty during the least valuable part of it, reminds me of the Englishman who went to India to make a fortune first, in order that he might return to England and live the life of a poet." -Henry David Thoreau
"Where is this division of labor to end? and what object does it finally serve? No doubt another may also think for me; but it is not therefore desirable that he should do so to the exclusion of my thinking for myself." -Henry David Thoreau
"دولتی بهترین است که تا حد ممکن کمتر حکومت کند'. این شعاری است که من از صمیم قلب می‌پذیرم و تحقق هرچه سریع‌تر و نظام‌مندترش را آرزو دارم. این شعار اگر عملی شود سرانجام به این جمله، که من به آن نیز معتقدم، منتهی می‌گردد که 'بهترین دولت آن است که اصلاً حکومت نکند." -Henry David Thoreau
"The written word is the choicest of relics." -Henry David Thoreau
"It's not what you look at that matters,it's what you see." -Henry David Thoreau
"Andai nei boschi perché desideravo vivere deliberatamente, affrontare solo i fatti essenziali della vita, e vedere se non potessi imparare cosa avesse da insegnare, senza scoprire, giunto alla morte, di non aver vissuto. Non desideravo vivere ciò che non era una vita, per quanto caro mi sia il vivere; né desideravo praticare la rassegnazione, a meno che non fosse necessaria. Volevo vivere in profondità e succhiare tutto il midollo della vita, vivere in modo così risoluto e spartano da sbaragliare tutto quanto non fosse vita; da aprirmi con la falce un varco ampio e raso terra, da spingere nell'angolo la vita e ridurla ai minimi termini; e, se si fosse dimostrata essere meschina, da arrivare, perché no?, alla sua completa e genuina meschinità, rendendola pubblica al mondo; o se fosse stata sublime, da conoscerla per esperienza; e da essere in grado di darne un resoconto sincero nella mia successiva escursione letteraria. Perché gran parte degli uomini, mi pare, ha una strana incertezza al riguardo, se sia del diavolo o di Dio, e ha _un po' frettolosamente_ concluso che il primo fine dell'uomo su questa terra è 'rendere gloria a Dio e goderlo per l'eternità'." -Henry David Thoreau
"For it matters not how small the beginning may seem to be: what is once well done is done for ever." -Henry David Thoreau
"Quel est le cours actuel d'un homme honnête? D'un patriote? Ils tergiversent, et ils déplorent, et parfois ils déposent une requête. Mais ils ne font rien de sérieux, rien d'efficace. Ils attendent, pleins de bonnes dispositions, que d'autres remédient au mal pour qu'enfin ils n'aient plus matière à regrets. Au mieux, lorsqu'ils voient la justice se présenter à eux, ils se fendent à son égard d'un vote qui ne leur coûte rien, puis l'encouragent piteusement à poursuivre son chemin en lui souhaitant bon vent. Il existe neuf cent quatre-vingt-dix-neuf champions de la vertu pour chaque homme vertueux.P.13" -Henry David Thoreau
"You can always see a face in the fire. The laborer, looking into it at evening, purifies his thoughts of the dross and earthiness which they have accumulated during the day. But I could no longer sit and look into the fire, and the pertinent words of a poet recurred to me with new force.-- 'Never, bright flame, may be denied to me Thy dear, life imaging, close sympathy. What but my hopes shot upward e'er so bright? What but my fortunes sunk so low in night? Why art thou banished from our hearth and hall, Thou who art welcomed and beloved by all? Was thy existence then too fanciful For our life's common light, who are so dull? Did thy bright gleam mysterious converse hold" -Henry David Thoreau
"I do not care to trace the course of my dollar, if I could, till it buys a man or a musket to shoot one with--the dollar is innocent--but I am concerned to trace the effects of my allegiance." -Henry David Thoreau
"By avarice and selfishness, and a grovelling habit, from which none of us is free, of regarding the soil as property, or the means of acquiring property chiefly, the landscape is deformed, husbandry is degraded with us, and the farmer leads the meanest of lives. He knows Nature but as a robber." -Henry David Thoreau
"The greater part of what my neighbors call good I believe in my soul to be bad," -Henry David Thoreau
"something at once more intimate with us and more universal than any other work of art. It is the work of art nearest to life itself. It may be translated into every language, and not only be read but actually breathed from all human lips;--not be represented on canvas or in marble only, but be carved out of the breath of life itself." -Henry David Thoreau
"I went to the woods because I wished to live delibertely, to front only the essential facts of life, and see if I could not learn what it had to teach, and not, when I came to die, discover that I had not lived." -Henry David Thoreau
"I can afford to refuse allegiance to Massachusetts, and her right to my property and life. It costs me less in every sense to incur the penalty of disobedience to the State than it would to obey. I should feel as if I were worth less in that case." -Henry David Thoreau
"Non lessi la prima estate, zappai fagioli" -Henry David Thoreau
"Let us spend one day as deliberately as Nature, and not be thrown off the track by every nutshell and mosquito's wing that falls on the rails. Let us rise early and fast, or break fast, gently and without perturbation; let company come and let company go, let the bells ring and the children cry--determined to make a day of it." -Henry David Thoreau
"Still we live meanly, like ants... Our life is frittered away by detail. An honest man has hardly need to count more than his ten fingers, or in extreme cases he may add his ten toes, and lump the rest. Simplicity, simplicity, simplicity! I say, let your affairs be as two or three, and not a hundred or a thousand; instead of a million count half a dozen, and keep your accounts on your thumb-nail." -Henry David Thoreau
"This is the frost coming out of the ground; this is Spring. It precedes the green and flowery spring, as mythology precedes regular poetry. I" -Henry David Thoreau
"The fault-finder will find faults even in paradise. Love your life, poor as it is." -Henry David Thoreau
"A mennyekbe sóvárgunk? – hisz a Földnek is szégyenére válunk!" -Henry David Thoreau
"Every great oak tree started out as a couple of nuts who stood their ground." -Henry David Thoreau
"However mean your life is, meet it and live it; do not shun it and call it hard names. It is not so bad as you are. It looks poorest when you are richest. The fault-finder will find faults even in paradise. Love your life, poor as it is. You may perhaps have some pleasant, thrilling, glorious hours, even in a poorhouse. The setting sun is reflected from the windows of the almshouse as brightly as from the rich man's abode; the snow melts before its door as early in the spring. I" -Henry David Thoreau
"I learned this, at least, by my experiment; that if one advances confidently in the direction of his dreams, and endeavors to live the life which he has imagined, he will meet with a success unexpected in common hours. He will put some some things behind, will pass an invisible boundary; new, universal, and more liberal laws will begin to establish themselves around and within him, or the old laws be expanded, and interpreted in his favor in more liberal sense, and he will live with the license of a higher order of beings. In proportion as he simplifies his life, the laws of the universe will appear less complex, and solitude will not be solitude, nor poverty poverty, nor weakness weakness. If you have built castles in the air, your work need not be lost; that is where they should be. Now put the foundations under them." -Henry David Thoreau
"Can there not be a government in which the majorities do not virtually decide right and wrong, but conscience?" -Henry David Thoreau
"… priznam, da sem osupel ob moči vzdržljivosti - da sploh ne omenjam moralne neobčutljivosti - svojih sosedov, ki se tedne, mesece, da celo leta, za ves dan zapirajo v svoje trgovine in pisarne. Ne vem, iz kakšne snovi so, da lahko ob treh popoldan sedijo tamkaj, kakor da bi bila ura tri zjutraj." -Henry David Thoreau
"Mathematics does not lie, there are many lying mathematicians." -Henry David Thoreau
"I went to the woods because I wished to live deliberately," -Henry David Thoreau
"for this world a family mansion, and for the" -Henry David Thoreau
"The book exists for us, perchance, which will explain our miracles and reveal new ones." -Henry David Thoreau
"No hay otro remedio para el amor que amar más." -Henry David Thoreau
"All voting is a sort of gaming, like chequers or backgammon, with a slight moral tinge to it, a playing with right and wrong, with moral questions; and betting naturally accompanies it. The character of the voters is not staked. I cast my vote, perchance, as I think right; but I am not vitally concerned that that right should prevail. I am willing to leave it to the majority. Its obligation, therefore, never exceeds that of expediency. Even voting for the right is doing nothing for it. It is only expressing to men feebly your desire that it should prevail." -Henry David Thoreau
"Good writing as well as good acting will be obedience to conscience. There must not be a particle of will or whim mixed with it. If we can listen, we shall hear. By reverently listening to the inner voice, we may reinstate ourselves on the pinnacle of humanity." -Henry David Thoreau
"What is once well done is done forever." -Henry David Thoreau
"The community has no bribe that will tempt a wise man. You may raise money enough to tunnel a mountain, but you cannot raise money enough to hire a man who is minding his own business. An efficient and valuable man does what he can, whether the community pay him for it or not." -Henry David Thoreau
"Must the citizen ever for a moment, or in the least degree, resign his conscience to the legislator? Why has every man a conscience, then? I think that we should be men first, and subjects afterward. It is not desirable to cultivate a respect for the law, so much as for the right. The only obligation which I have a right to assume, is to do at any time what I think right." -Henry David Thoreau
"Time is but the stream I go a-fishing in. I drink at it; but while I drink I see the sandy bottom and detect how shallow it is. Its thin current slides away, but eternity remains. I would drink deeper; fish in the sky, whose bottom is pebbly with stars. I cannot count one. I know not the first letter of the alphabet. I have always been regretting that I was not as wise as the day I was born. The intellect is a cleaver; it discerns and rifts its way into the secret of things. I do not wish to be any more busy with my hands than is necessary. My head is hands and feet. I feel all my best faculties concentrated in it. My instinct tells me that my head is an organ for burrowing, as some creatures use their snout and fore-paws, and with it I would mine and burrow my way through these hills. I think that the richest vein is somewhere hereabouts; so by the divining-rod and thin rising vapors I judge; and here I will begin to mine." -Henry David Thoreau
"Yet some can be patriotic who have no self-respect, and sacrifice the greater to the less. They love the soil which makes their graves, but have no sympathy with the spirit which may still animate their clay. Patriotism is a maggot in their heads." -Henry David Thoreau
"The man who thrusts his manners upon me does as if he were to insist on introducing me to his cabinet of curiosities, when I wished to see himself." -Henry David Thoreau
"The mice which haunted my house were not the common ones, which are said to have been introduced into the country, but a wild native kind not found in the village. I sent one to a distinguished naturalist, and it interested him much. When I was building, one of these had its nest underneath the house, and before I had laid the second floor, and swept out the shavings, would come out regularly at lunch time and pick up the crumbs at my feet. It probably had never seen a man before; and it soon became quite familiar, and would run over my shoes and up my clothes. It could readily ascend the sides of the room by short impulses, like a squirrel, which it resembled in its motions. At length, as I leaned with my elbow on the bench one day, it ran up my clothes, and along my sleeve, and round and round the paper which held my dinner, while I kept the latter close, and dodged and played at bopeep with it; and when at last I held still a piece of cheese between my thumb and finger, it came and nibbled it, sitting in my hand, and afterward cleaned its face and paws, like a fly, and walked away." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is said that Deucalion and Pyrrha created men by throwing stones over their heads behind them:-- Inde genus durum sumus, experiensque laborum, Et documenta damus qua simus origine nati. Or, as Raleigh rhymes it in his sonorous way,-- 'From thence our kind hard-hearted is, enduring pain and care, Approving that our bodies of a stony nature are." -Henry David Thoreau
"Your religion is where your love is." -Henry David Thoreau
"He who gives himself entirely to his fellow-men appears to them useless and selfish; but he who gives himself partially to them is pronounced a benefactor and philanthropist." -Henry David Thoreau
"Feb. 26, 1841. To be great, we do as if we would be tall merely, be longer than we are broad, stretch ourselves and stand on tiptoe. But greatness is well proportioned, unstrained, and stands on the soles of the feet." -Henry David Thoreau
"How, then, could I have a furnished house? I would rather sit in the open air, for no dust gathers on the grass, unless where man has broken ground." -Henry David Thoreau
"If a man does not keep pace with his companions, perhaps it is because he hears a different drummer. Let him step to the music which he hears, however measured or far away." -Henry David Thoreau
"Leggere bene -- e cioè leggere libri veri -- è un nobile esercizio che occuperà il lettore più di qualunque altro esaltato dalla moda del giorno. Ciò richiede un allenamento pari a quelli cui si sottoponevano gli atleti, un proposito costante che duri quasi tutta la vita. I libri bisogna leggerli con la prudenza e la riservatezza con cui furono scritti, poiché c'è un salto considerevole tra la lingua parlata e la lingua scritta, tra lingua udita e lingua letta: normalmente, la prima è transitoria, un suono, un linguaggio, un semplice dialetto quasi animale, che impariamo come bruti, incoscientemente, succhiando il latte materno; la seconda è la maturità e l'esperienza della precedente. Se la prima è la nostra lingua madre, la seconda è la nostra lingua padre, espressione scelta e riservata, troppo densa di significati per essere appresa dalle orecchie; e per parlarla noi dobbiamo rinascere." -Henry David Thoreau
"We are all the subjects of an experiment which is not a little interesting to me." -Henry David Thoreau
"Why is it that men give so poor an account of their day if they have not been slumbering?" -Henry David Thoreau
"Tatsächlich hat der arbeitende Mensch heute nicht mehr die Muße, sein Leben Tag für Tag wirklich sinnvoll zu gestalten.Wahrhaft menschliche Beziehungen zu seinen Mitmenschen kann er sich nicht leisten; es würde den Marktwert seiner Arbeit herabsetzen. Es fehlt ihm an Zeit, etwas anderes zu sein als eine Maschine." -Henry David Thoreau
"At present our only true names are nicknames. I knew a boy who, from his peculiar energy, was called 'Buster' by his playmates, and this rightly supplanted his Christian name. Some travelers tell us that an Indian had no name given him at first, but earned it, and his name was his fame; and among some tribes he acquired a new name with every new exploit. It is pitiful when a man bears a name for convenience merely, who has earned neither name nor fame." -Henry David Thoreau
"As if you could kill time without injuring eternity. The mass of men lead lives of quiet desperation. What is called resignation is confirmed desperation." -Henry David Thoreau
"walks--who had a genius, so to speak, for SAUNTERING, which word is beautifully derived 'from idle people who roved about the country, in the Middle Ages, and asked charity, under pretense of going a la Sainte Terre,' to the Holy Land, till the children exclaimed, 'There goes a Sainte-Terrer,' a Saunterer, a Holy-Lander." -Henry David Thoreau
"I found my account in climbing a tree once. It was a tall white pine, on the top of a hill; and though I got well pitched, I was well paid for it, for I discovered new mountains in the horizon which I had never seen before--so much more of the earth and the heavens. I might have walked about the foot of the tree for threescore years and ten, and yet I certainly should never have seen them." -Henry David Thoreau
"To come down to my own experience, my companion and I, for I sometimes have a companion, take pleasure in fancying ourselves knights of a new, or rather an old, order--not Equestrians or Chevaliers, not Ritters or Riders, but Walkers, a still more ancient and honorable class, I trust. The Chivalric and heroic spirit which once belonged to the Rider seems now to reside in, or perchance to have subsided into, the Walker--not the Knight, but Walker, Errant. He is a sort of fourth estate, outside of Church and State and People." -Henry David Thoreau
"I found in myself, and still find, an instinct toward a higher, or, as it is named, spiritual life, as do most men, and another toward a primitive rank and savage one, and I reverence them both." -Henry David Thoreau
"There is a vale which none hath seen,Where foot of man has never been,Such as here lives with toil and strife,An anxious and a sinful life.There every virtue has its birth,Ere it descends upon the earth,And thither every deed returns,Which in the generous bosom burns.There love is warm, and youth is young,And poetry is yet unsung.For Virtue still adventures there,And freely breathes her native air.And ever, if you hearken well,You still may hear its vesper bell,And tread of high-souled men go by,Their thoughts conversing with the sky." -Henry David Thoreau
"Mi vida fue el poema que habría escrito, pero no podía vivirlo y pronunciarlo" -Henry David Thoreau
"مسافر چابک کسی است که با پای پیاده راه می‌پیماید." -Henry David Thoreau
"Siempre he deplorado no ser tan sabio como lo era el día en que nací" -Henry David Thoreau
"The ways by which you may get money almost without exception lead downward. To have done anything by which you earned money merely is to have been truly idle or worse. If the laborer gets no more than the wages which his employer pays him, he is cheated, he cheats himself." -Henry David Thoreau
"I have learned that the swiftest traveller is he that goes afoot. I say to my friend, Suppose we try who will get [to Fitchburg from Concord] first. The distance is thirty miles; the fare ninety cents ... Well, I start now on foot, and get there before night; I have travelled at that rate by the week together. You will in the meanwhile have earned your fare, and arrive there some time tomorrow, or possibly this evening, if you are lucky enough to get a job in season. Instead of going to Fitchburg, you will be working here the greater part of the day. And so, if the railroad reached round the world, I think that I should keep ahead of you; and as for seeing the country and getting experience of that kind, I should have to cut your acquaintance altogether." -Henry David Thoreau
"Public opinion is a weak tyrant compared with our own private opinion. What a man thinks of himself, that it is which determines, or rather indicates, his fate. Self-emancipation" -Henry David Thoreau
"I find it wholesome to be alone the greater part of the time. To be in company, even with the best, is soon wearisome and dissipating. I love to be alone. I never found the companion that was so companionable as solitude. We are for the most part more lonely when we go abroad among men than when we stay in our chambers. A man thinking or working is always alone, let him be where he will. Solitude is not measured by the miles of space that intervene between a man and his fellows." -Henry David Thoreau
"A grain of gold will gild a great surface, but not so much as a grain of wisdom." -Henry David Thoreau
"have heard or observed, the principal object is, not that mankind may be well and honestly clad, but, unquestionably, that the corporations may be enriched." -Henry David Thoreau
"Výstrednosť, premrštenosť - tá predsa závislý od toho, aká ohrada vás zväzuje." -Henry David Thoreau
"When a man is warmed by the several modes which I have described, what does he want next? Surely not more warmth of the same kind, as more and richer food, larger and more splendid houses, finer and more abundant clothing, more numerous, incessant, and hotter fires, and the like. When he has obtained those things which are necessary to life, there is another alternative than to obtain the superfluities; and that is, to adventure on life now, his vacation from humbler toil having commenced." -Henry David Thoreau
"Morning is when I am awake and there is a dawn in me" -Henry David Thoreau
"Toda nuestra vida es de una moral sorprendente. Entre la virtud y el vicio jamás hay un instante de tregua" -Henry David Thoreau
"Individuals, like nations, must have suitable broad and natural boundaries, even a considerable neutral ground, between them. I" -Henry David Thoreau
"We are in great haste to construct a magnetic telegraph from Maine to Texas; but Maine and Texas, it may be, have nothing important to communicate." -Henry David Thoreau
"Nuestras casas son una propiedad tan aparatosa que a menudo estamos más encerrados que alojados en ellas." -Henry David Thoreau
"Things do not change: we change." -Henry David Thoreau
"In the last stage of civilization, Poetry, Religion, and Philosophy will be one." -Henry David Thoreau
"Let us not, my friends, be wheedled and cheated into good behavior to earn the salt of our eternal porridge, whoever they are that attempt it. Let us wait a little, and not purchase any clearing here, trusting that richer bottoms will soon be put up. It is but thin soil where we stand; I have felt my roots in a richer ere than this." -Henry David Thoreau
"If the injustice is part of the necessary friction of the machine of government, let it go, let it go: perchance it will wear smooth,--certainly the machine will wear out. If the injustice has a spring, or a pulley, or a rope, or a crank, exclusively for itself, then perhaps you may consider whether the remedy will not be worse than the evil; but if it is of such a nature that it requires you to be the agent of injustice to another, then, I say, break the law. Let your life be a counter friction to stop the machine. What I have to do is to see, at any rate, that I do not lend myself to the wrong which I condemn." -Henry David Thoreau
"Они просто нису знали како да поступају са мном, па су се понашали као неваспитани људи. У свакој претњи и у свакој похвали била је једна велика грешка. Мислили су да је моја највећа жеља да будем с друге стране зида. Нисам могао а да се не смешим кад сам видео како савесно закључавају врата за мојим размишљањима, која су изашла за њима без препрека, а у ствари су само она била опасна. Како нису могли да ухвате мене, одлучили су да казне моје тело, баш као дечаци који, кад не могу да се дочепају особе на коју су кивни, муче њеног пса. Видео сам да је држава глупа, да је плашљива као усамљена жена која се боји за своје сребрне кашике, и да не разликује пријатеље од непријатеља, и изгубио сам оно мало поштовања према њој и сажаљевао је." -Henry David Thoreau
"The greatest gains and values are farthest from being appreciated. We" -Henry David Thoreau
"One farmer says to me, 'You cannot live on vegetable food solely, for it furnishes nothing to make bones with;' and so he religiously devotes a part of his day to supplying his system with the raw material of bones; walking all the while he talks behind his oxen, which, with vegetable-made bones, jerk him and his lumbering plough along in spite of every obstacle." -Henry David Thoreau
"Most men I do not meet at all, for they seem not to have time; they are busy about their beans." -Henry David Thoreau
"A foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds, adored by little statesmen and philosophers and divines." -Henry David Thoreau
"Debemos interesarnos por nuestro país como si fuera nuestro padre y si en algún momento nos negamos a honrarle con nuestro amor o nuestro esfuerzo, debemos, sin embargo, respetarle y educar al alma en cuestiones de conciencia y religión, y no en deseos de poder ni de beneficio propio." -Henry David Thoreau
"The at present unutterable things we may find somewhere uttered. These same questions that disturb and puzzle and confound us have in their turn occurred to all the wise men; not one has been omitted; and each has answered them, according to his ability, by his words and his life. Moreover, with wisdom we shall learn liberality." -Henry David Thoreau
"Books are the treasured wealth of the world and the fit inheritance of generations and nations. Books, the oldest and the best, stand naturally and rightfully on the shelves of every cottage." -Henry David Thoreau
"Though the youth at last grows indifferent, the laws of the universe are not indifferent, but are forever on the side of the most sensitive." -Henry David Thoreau
"I think that having learned our letters we should read the best that is in literature, and not be forever repeating our a b abs, and words of one syllable, in the fourth or fifth classes, sitting on the lowest and foremost form all our lives. Most men are satisfied if they read or hear read, and perchance have been convicted by the wisdom of one good book, the Bible, and for the rest of their lives vegetate and dissipate their faculties in what is called easy reading." -Henry David Thoreau
"The fault-finder will find faults even in paradise. Love your life, poor as it is. You may perhaps have some pleasant, thrilling, glorious hours, even in a poor-house." -Henry David Thoreau
"When the illiterate and perhaps scornful trader has earned by enterprise and industry his coveted leisure and independence, and is admitted to the circles of wealth and fashion, he turns inevitably at last to those still higher but yet inaccessible circles of intellect and genius, and is sensible only to the imperfection of his culture and the vanity and insufficiency of all his riches, and further proves his good sense by the pains which he takes to secure for his children that intellectual culture whose want he so keenly feels; and thus it is that he becomes the founder of a family." -Henry David Thoreau
"Not that the story need be long, but it will take a long while to make it short." -Henry David Thoreau
"Both place and time were changed, and I dwelt nearer to those parts of the universe and to those eras in history which had most attracted me. Where I lived was as far off as many a region viewed nightly by astronomers. We are wont to imagine rare and delectable places in some remote and more celestial corner of the system, far from noise and disturbance. I discovered that my house actually had its site in such a withdrawn, but forever new and unprofaned, part of the universe…I was really there, or at an equal remoteness from the life which I had left behind, dwindled and twinkling…" -Henry David Thoreau
"I too had woven a kind of basket of a delicate texture, but I had not made it worth anyone's while to buy them. Yet not the less, in my case, did I think it worth my while to weave them, and instead of studying how to make it worth men's while to buy my baskets, I studied rather how to avoid the necessity of selling them." -Henry David Thoreau
"One afternoon, near the end of the first summer, when I went to the village to get a shoe from the cobbler's, I was seized and put into jail, because, as I have elsewhere related, I did not pay a tax to, or recognize the authority of, the State which buys and sells men, women, and children, like cattle, at the door of its senate-house. I" -Henry David Thoreau
"Meanwhile my beans, the length of whose rows, added together, was seven miles already planted, were impatient to be hoed," -Henry David Thoreau
"portentous" -Henry David Thoreau
"There are nine hundred and ninety-nine patrons of virtue to one virtuous man; but it is easier to deal with the real possessor of a thing than with the temporary guardian of it." -Henry David Thoreau
"No quiero sentir ya mi vida como si fuera una estadía. La filosofía que así la pinta es falsa. Ya es hora de empezar a vivir." -Henry David Thoreau
"Η αληθινή σοδειά της ζωής μου είναι τόσο άπιαστη και απερίγραπτη όσο τα χρώματα της αυγής και του σούρουπου." -Henry David Thoreau
"One afternoon ... I was seized and put into jail, because ... I did not pay a tax to, or recognize the authority of, the state which buys men, women, and children, like cattle at the door of its senate house. I had gone down to the woods for other purposes. But, wherever a man goes, men will pursue and paw him with their dirty institutions, and, if they can, constrain him to belong to their desperate odd-fellow society." -Henry David Thoreau
"What a man thinks of himself, that it is which determines, or rather indicates, his fate. Self-emancipation" -Henry David Thoreau
"Will mankind never learn that policy is not morality--that it never secures any moral right, but considers merely what is expedient?" -Henry David Thoreau
"богатство человека измеряется числом вещей, от которых ему легко отказаться." -Henry David Thoreau
"We need to be provoked--goaded like oxen, as we are, into a trot. We have a comparatively decent system of common schools, schools for infants only; but excepting the half-starved Lyceum in the winter, and latterly the puny beginning of a library suggested by the State, no school for ourselves. We spend more on almost any article of bodily aliment or ailment than on our mental aliment. It is time that we had uncommon schools, that we did not leave off our education when we begin to be men and women. It is time that villages were universities, and their elder inhabitants the fellows of universities, with leisure--if they are, indeed, so well off--to pursue liberal studies the rest of their lives. Shall the world be confined to one Paris or one Oxford forever?" -Henry David Thoreau
"The works of the great poets have never yet been read by mankind, for only great poets can read them. They have only been read as the multitude read the stars, at most astrologically, not astronomically." -Henry David Thoreau
"If one listens to the faintest but constant suggestions of his genius, which are certainly true, he sees not to what extremes, or event insanity it may lead him; and yet that way, as he grows more resolute and faithful, his road lies. The faintest assured objection which one healthy man feels will at length prevail over the arguments and customs of mankind. No man ever followed his genius till it misled him. Though the result were bodily weakness, yet perhaps no one can say that the consequences were to be regretted, for these were a life of conformity to higher principles. If the day and the night are such that you greet them with joy, and life emits a fragrance like flowers and sweet-sentenced herbs, is more elastic, more starry, more immortal, - that is your success. All nature is your congratulation, and you have cause momentarily to bless yourself. The greatest gains and values are farthest from being appreciated. We easily come to doubt that they exist. We soon forget them. They are the highest reality. Perhaps the facts most astounding and most real are never communicated by man to man." -Henry David Thoreau
"The millions are awake enough for physical labor; but only one in a million is awake enough for effective intellectual exertion, only one in a hundred millions to a poetic or divine life. To be awake is to be alive. I have never yet met a man who was quite awake." -Henry David Thoreau
"I say, beware of all enterprises that require new clothes, and not rather a new wearer of clothes. If there is not a new man, how can the new clothes be made to fit? If you have any enterprise before you, try it in your own clothes." -Henry David Thoreau
"In the night the eyes are partly closed, or retire into the head. Other senses take the lead. The walker is guided as well by the sense of smell. Every plant and field and forest emits its odor now, --swamp-pink in the meadow, and tansy in the road; and there is the peculiar dry scent of corn which has begun to show its tassels. The senses both of hearing and smelling are more alert. We hear the tinkling of rills which we never detected before." -Henry David Thoreau
"Even the elephant carries but a small trunk on his journeys." -Henry David Thoreau
"Tidak ada obat untuk cinta kecuali untuk lebih mencintai." -Henry David Thoreau
"Men think that it is essential that the 'Nation' have commerce, and export ice, and talk through a telegraph, and ride thirty miles an hour, without a doubt, wether they do or not; but whether we should live like baboons or like men, is a little uncertain." -Henry David Thoreau
"İlkeli eylemler, hakkın idraki ve icrası, şeyleri ve ilişkileri değiştirir; bu da özünde devrimci bir davranıştır ve yalnızca geçmişte de devrimci olan şeylerden ibaret değildir. Devletleri ve kiliseleri bölmekle kalmaz, aileleri de böler; evet, içindeki şeytani yanı kutsal olandan ayırarak bireyi de böler." -Henry David Thoreau
"I should not talk so much about myself if therewere any body else whom I knew as well. Unfortunately, I am confined to this theme by the narrowness of my experience." -Henry David Thoreau
"Not long since, a strolling Indian went to sell baskets at the house of a well-known lawyer in my neighborhood. 'Do you wish to buy any baskets?' he asked. 'No, we do not want any,' was the reply. 'What!' exclaimed the Indian as he went out the gate, 'do you mean to starve us?' Having seen his industrious white neighbors so well off--that the lawyer had only to weave arguments, and, by some magic, wealth and standing followed--he had said to himself: I will go into business; I will weave baskets; it is a thing which I can do. Thinking that when he had made the baskets he would have done his part, and then it would be the white man's to buy them. He had not discovered that it was necessary for him to make it worth the other's while to buy them, or at least make him think that it was so, or to make something else which it would be worth his while to buy. I too had woven a kind of basket of a delicate texture, but I had not made it worth any one's while to buy them. Yet not the less, in my case, did I think it worth my while to weave them, and instead of studying how to make it worth men's while to buy my baskets, I studied rather how to avoid the necessity of selling them. The life which men praise and regard as successful is but one kind. Why should we exaggerate any one kind at the expense of the others?" -Henry David Thoreau
"Those who have not learned to read the ancient classics in the language in which they were written must have a very imperfect knowledge of the history of the human race; for it is remarkable that no transcript of them has ever been made into any modern tongue, unless our civilization itself may be regarded as such a transcript. Homer has never yet been printed in English, nor AEschylus, nor Virgil even--works as refined," -Henry David Thoreau
"Mas o trabalho manual, mesmo quando se torna quase enfadonho e pesado, talvez nunca seja a pior forma de ociosidade" -Henry David Thoreau
"Es un disparate intentar educar a los hijos dentro de una ciudad. El primer paso ha de ser sacarlos de ella." -Henry David Thoreau
"It's not what you look at that matters,It's what you see." -Henry David Thoreau
"Men frequently say to me, I should think you would feel lonesome down there. I am tempted to reply to such- this whole earth which we inhabit is but a point in space. how far apart, think you, dwell the two most distant inhabitants of yonder star, the breadth of who disk cannot be appreciated by our instruments? why should I feel lonely? is not our planet in the Milky Way?Every man has to learn the points of compass again as often as he awakes, whether from sleep or any abstraction. Not till we are lost, in other words, not till we have lost the world, do we begin to find ourselves…" -Henry David Thoreau
"Be resolutely and faithfully what you are; be humbly what you aspire to be. Be sure you give men the best of your wares, though they be poor enough, and the gods will help you to lay up a better store for the future. Man's noblest gift to man is his sincerity, for it embraces his integrity also. Let him not dole out of himself anxiously, to suit their weaker or stronger stomachs, but make a clean gift of himself, and empty his coffers at once. I would be in society as in the landscape; in the presence of nature there is no reserve, nor effrontery." -Henry David Thoreau
"The community has no bribe that will tempt a wise man. You may raise money enough to tunnel a mountain, but you cannot raise money enough to hire a man who is minding his own business. An efficient and valuable man does what he can, whether the community pay him for it or not. The inefficient offer their inefficiency to the highest bidder, and are forever expecting to be put into office. One would suppose that they were rarely disappointed." -Henry David Thoreau
"There were times when I could not afford to sacrifice the bloom of the present moment to any work, whether of the head or hands. I love a broad margin to my life. Sometimes, in a summer morning, having taken my accustomed bath, I sat in my sunny doorway from sunrise till noon, rapt in a reverie, amid the pines and hickories and sumacs, in undisturbed solitude and stillness, while the birds sang around or flitted noiseless through the house, until by the sun falling in at my west window or the noise of some traveler's wagon on the distant highway, I was reminded of the lapse of time.I grew in those seasons like corn in the night, and they were far better than any work of the hands would have been. They were not time subtracted from my life, but so much over and above my usual allowance ... For the most part, I minded not how the hours went. The day advanced as if to light some work of mine; it was morning, and lo, now it is evening, and nothing memorable is accomplished ... This was sheer idleness to my fellow townsmen, no doubt, but if the birds and flowers had tried me by their standard, I should not have been found wanting." -Henry David Thoreau
"When it's time to die, let us not discover that we have never lived." -Henry David Thoreau
"The day is an epitome of the year." -Henry David Thoreau
"Who shall say what prospect life offers to another?" -Henry David Thoreau
"I must walk toward Oregon, and not toward Europe. And that way the nation is moving, and I may say that mankind progress from east to west. Within a few years we have witnessed the phenomenon of a southeastward migration, in the settlement of Australia; but this affects us as a retrograde movement, and, judging from the moral and physical character of the first generation of Australians, has not yet proved a successful experiment." -Henry David Thoreau
"Christ answered the Herodians according to their condition. 'Show me the tribute-money,' said he--and one took a penny out of his pocket--if you use money which has the image of Caesar on it, and which he has made current and valuable, that is, if you are men of the State, and gladly enjoy the advantages of Caesar's government, then pay him back some of his own when he demands it. 'Render therefore to Caesar that which is Caesar's and to God those things which are God's'--leaving them no wiser than before as to which was which; for they did not wish to know." -Henry David Thoreau
"What is sour in the house a bracing walk makes sweet" -Henry David Thoreau
"Methinks it would be some advantage to philosophy if men were named merely in the gross, as they are known. It would be necessary only to know the genus and perhaps the race or variety, to know the individual. We are not prepared to believe that every private soldier in a Roman army had a name of his own--because we have not supposed that he had a character of his own." -Henry David Thoreau
"We have the St. Vitus' dance, and cannot possibly keep our heads still" -Henry David Thoreau
"We are all sculptors and painters, and our material is our own flesh and blood and bones." -Henry David Thoreau
"And Elijah Wood,I fear for no good:" -Henry David Thoreau
"Critical acumen is exerted in vain to uncover the past; the past cannot be presented; we cannot know what we are not. But one veil hangs over past, present, and future, and it is the province of the historian to find out, not what was, but what is. Where a battle has been fought, you will find nothing but the bones of men and beasts; where a battle is being fought, there are hearts beating. We will sit on a mound and muse, and not try to make these skeletons stand on their legs again. Does Nature remember, think you, that they were men, or not rather that they are bones?" -Henry David Thoreau
"Only that day dawns to which we are awake." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is never too late to give up our prejudices. No way of thinking or doing, however ancient, can be trusted without proof. What everybody echoes or in silence passes by as true today may turn out to be falsehood tomorrow." -Henry David Thoreau
"If a thousand men were not to pay their tax-bills this year, that would not be a violent and bloody measure, as it would be to pay them, and enable the State to commit violence and shed innocent blood." -Henry David Thoreau
"Men think that it is essential that the Nation have commerce, and export ice, and talk through a telegraph, and ride thirty miles an hour, without a doubt, whether they do or not; but whether we should live like baboons or like men, is a little uncertain." -Henry David Thoreau
"It's not what you look at that matters, it's what you see." -Henry David Thoreau
"I left the woods for as good a reason as I went there. Perhaps it seemed to me that I had several more lives to live, and could not spare any more time for that one. It is remarkable how easily and insensibly we fall into a particular route, and make a beaten track for ourselves." -Henry David Thoreau
"A man's ignorance sometimes is not only useful, but beautiful--while his knowledge, so called, is oftentimes worse than useless, besides being ugly. Which is the best man to deal with--he who knows nothing about a subject, and, what is extremely rare, knows that he knows nothing, or he who really knows" -Henry David Thoreau
"Even in our democratic New England towns the accidental possession of wealth, and its manifestation in dress and equipage alone, obtain for the possessor almost universal respect. But they who yield such respect, numerous as they are, are so far heathen, and need to have a missionary sent to them." -Henry David Thoreau
"They honestly think there is no choice left. But alert and healthy natures remember that the sun rose clear. It is never too late to give up our prejudices." -Henry David Thoreau
"My days were not days of the week, bearing the stamp of any heathen deity, nor were they minced into hours and fretted by the ticking of a clock; for I lived like the Puri Indians, of whom it is said that 'for yesterday, today, and tomorrow they have only one word, and they express the variety of meaning by pointing backward for yesterday forward for tomorrow, and overhead for the passing day.' This was sheer idleness to my fellow-townsmen, no doubt; but if the birds and flowers had tried me by their standard, I should not have been found wanting. A man must find his occasions in himself, it is true. The natural day is very calm, and will hardly reprove his indolence." -Henry David Thoreau
"Mais que sont-ils? Des hommes, vraiment? ou bien de petites forteresses et de petits arsenaux mobiles, au service de quelque homme de pouvoir sans scrupule? Visitez la Base navale de Washington, et regardez un soldat: voilà le genre d'homme qu'un gouvernement américain a le pouvoir de créer, ou ce qu'un gouvernement américain peut faire d'un homme avec sa magie noire - à peine une ombre, à peine un souvenir de ce qu'est l'humanité [...]P.8" -Henry David Thoreau
"Устај безбрижно пре зоре и тражи пустоловине. Нека те подне затекне поред других језера, а тамо где те ноћ затекне нека ти буде кућа. Нема већих поља од ових, ни вреднијих игара од оних које се овде могу играти. Расти дивље у складу са својом природом, попут ове шаше и папрати који неће никад постати енглеска трава. Нека пуцају громови; шта ако прете уништењем фармерове летине? То није њихова порука теби. Заклони се под облак док сви беже у кола и шупе. Не допусти да ти живот буде занат, него нека буде забава. Уживај земљу, а не поседуј је." -Henry David Thoreau
"sick take remedy at stated hours--because" -Henry David Thoreau
"The wind that blowsIs all that any body knows." -Henry David Thoreau
"No way of thinking or doing, however ancient, can be trusted without proof. What everybody echoes or in silence passes by as true to-day may turn out to be falsehood to-morrow, mere smoke of opinion, which some had trusted for a cloud that would sprinkle fertilizing rain on their fields." -Henry David Thoreau
"Wir haben es eilig, eine telegrafische Verbindung zwischen Maine und Texas herzustellen: aber Maine und Texas haben sich vielleicht gar nichts Wichtiges mitzuteilen?" -Henry David Thoreau
"I have a great deal of company in my house; especially in the morning, when nobody calls. Let me suggest a few comparisons, that some one may convey an idea of my situation. I am no more lonely than the loon in the pond that laughs so loud, or than Walden Pond itself. What company has that lonely lake, I pray? And yet it has not the blue devils, but the blue angels in it, in the azure tint of its waters. The sun is alone, except in thick weather, when there sometimes appear to be two, but one is a mock sun. God is alone--but the devil, he is far from being alone; he sees a great deal of company; he is legion. I am no more lonely than a single mullein or dandelion in a pasture, or a bean leaf, or sorrel, or a horse-fly, or a bumblebee. I am no more lonely than the Mill Brook, or a weathercock, or the north star, or the south wind, or an April shower, or a January thaw, or the first spider in a new house." -Henry David Thoreau
"mere smoke of opinion, which some had trusted for a cloud that would sprinkle fertilizing rain on their fields." -Henry David Thoreau
"This was an airy and unplastered cabin, fit to entertain a travelling god, and where a goddess might trail her garments. The winds which passed over my dwelling were such as sweep over the ridges of mountains, bearing the broken strains, or celestial parts only, of terrestrial music. The morning wind forever blows, the poem of creation is uninterrupted; but few are the ears that hear it. Olympus is but the outside of the earth every where." -Henry David Thoreau
"Carried out, it finally amounts to this, which I also believe,--'That government is best which governs not at all;' and when men are prepared for it, that will be the kind of government which they will have." -Henry David Thoreau
"You only need sit still long enough in some attractive spot in the woods that all its inhabitants may exhibit themselves to you by turns." -Henry David Thoreau
"His highest duty to fodder and water his horses! What is his destiny" -Henry David Thoreau
"Do empenho vem a sabedoria e a pureza; da preguiça a ignorância e a sensualidade. Uma pessoa impura é universalmente preguiçosa, que se senta junto à estufa, deita-se ao calor do sol, repousa sem estar cansada. Se vocês querem evitar a impureza e todos os pecados, que trabalhem com empenho, mesmo que seja limpando um estábulo. A natureza é difícil de vencer, mas deve ser vencida." -Henry David Thoreau
"This spending of the best part of one's life earning money in order to enjoy a questionable liberty during the least valuable part of it reminds me of the Englishman who went to India to make a fortune first, in order that he might return to England and live the life of a poet. He should have gone up garret at once. 'What!' exclaim a million Irishmen starting up from all the shanties in the land, 'is not this railroad which we have built a good thing?' Yes, I answer, comparatively good, that is, you might have done worse; but I wish, as you are brothers of mine, that you could have spent your time better than digging in this dirt." -Henry David Thoreau
"I am freighted with thought." -Henry David Thoreau
"The farmer is endeavoring to solve the problem of a livelihood by a formula more complicated than the problem itself. To get his shoestrings he speculates in herds of cattle." -Henry David Thoreau
"Great men, unknown to their generation, have their fame among the great who have preceded them, and all true worldly fame subsides from their high estimate beyond the stars." -Henry David Thoreau
"I would not run round a corner to see the world blow up." -Henry David Thoreau
"If we do not get out sleepers, and forge rails, and devote days and nights to the work, but go to tinkering upon our lives to improve them, who will build railroads? And if railroads are not built, how shall we get to heaven in season? But if we stay at home and mind our business, who will want railroads? We do not ride on the railroad; it rides upon us." -Henry David Thoreau
"I, who cannot stay in my chamber for a single day without acquiring some rust, and when sometimes I have stolen forth for a walk at the eleventh hour, or four o'clock in the afternoon, too late to redeem the day, when the shades of night were already beginning to be mingled with the daylight, have felt as if I had committed some sin to be atoned for,--I confess that I am astonished at the power of endurance, to say nothing of the moral insensibility, of my neighbors who confine themselves to shops and offices the whole day for weeks and months, aye, and years almost together." -Henry David Thoreau
"Some are petitioning the State to dissolve the Union, to disregard the requisitions of the President. Why do they not dissolve it themselves--the union between themselves and the State--and refuse to pay their quota into its treasury? Do not they stand in same relation to the State that the State does to the Union? And have not the same reasons prevented the State from resisting the Union which have prevented them from resisting the State?" -Henry David Thoreau
"Nor is it every apple I desire,      Nor that which pleases every palate best; 'T is not the lasting Deuxan I require,      Nor yet the red-cheeked Greening I request, Nor that which first beshrewed the name of wife, Nor that whose beauty caused the golden strife: No, no! bring me an apple from the tree of life." -Henry David Thoreau
"I have met with but one or two persons in the course of my life who understood the art of Walking, that is, of taking walks, who had a genius, so to speak, for Sauntering." -Henry David Thoreau
"However mean your life is, meet it and live it; do not shun it and call it hard names. It is not so bad as you are. It looks poorest when you are richest. The fault-finder will find faults even in paradise. Love your life, poor as it is. You may perhaps have some pleasant, thrilling, glorious hours, even in a poor-house. The setting sun is reflected from the windows of the alms-house as brightly as from the rich man's abode; the snow melts before its door as early in the spring. I do not see but a quiet mind may live as contentedly there, and have as cheering thoughts, as in a palace. The town's poor seem to me often to live the most independent lives of any. May be they are simply great enough to receive without misgiving. Most think that they are above being supported by the town; but it oftener happens that they are not above supporting themselves by dishonest means, which should be more disreputable. Cultivate poverty like a garden herb, like sage. Do not trouble yourself much to get new things, whether clothes or friends. Turn the old; return to them. Things do not change; we change. Sell your clothes and keep your thoughts. God will see that you do not want society. If I were confined to a corner of a garret all my days, like a spider, the world would be just as large to me while I had my thoughts about me." -Henry David Thoreau
"you must everywhere build on piles of your own driving." -Henry David Thoreau
"How can we remember our ignorance, which our growth requires, when we are using our knowledge all the time?" -Henry David Thoreau
"For the improvements of ages have had but little influence on the essential laws of man's existence; as our skeletons, probably, are not to be distinguished from those of our ancestors." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is something to be able to paint a particular picture, or to carve a statue, and so to make a few objects beautiful; but it is far more glorious to carve and paint the very atmosphere and medium through which we look... To affect the quality of the day, that is the highest of arts." -Henry David Thoreau
"If one advances confidently in the direction of his dreams, and endeavours to live the life which he has imagined, he will meet with a success unexpected in common Hours." -Henry David Thoreau
"Our inventions are wont to be pretty toys, which distract our attention from serious things." -Henry David Thoreau
"Hay mil podando las ramas del mal por uno que golpea en la raíz, y puede que aquel que otorgue la mayor cantidad de tiempo y dinero a los necesitados sea el que más haga con su modo de vida para producir la miseria que trata de aliviar en vano. Sería como el piadoso dueño de esclavos que dedica las ganancias del décimo esclavo a comprar la libertad de un domingo para los demás. Algunos muestran su amabilidad con los pobres empleándolos en sus cocinas. ¿No serían más amables si se emplearan allí a sí mismos?" -Henry David Thoreau
"I am wont to think that men are not so much the keepers of herds as herds are the keepers of men, the former are so much the freer." -Henry David Thoreau
"Não vejo porque um espírito sereno não possa viver com o mesmo contentamento e com pensamentos alegres num asilo ou um palácio" -Henry David Thoreau
"There is always a present and extant life, be it better or worse, which all combine to uphold." -Henry David Thoreau
"One attraction in coming to the woods to live was that I should have leisure and opportunity to see the Spring come in. The ice in the pond at length begins to be honeycombed, and I can set my heel in it as I walk. Fogs and rains and warmer suns are gradually melting the snow; the days have grown sensibly longer; and I see how I shall get through the winter without adding to my wood-pile, for large fires are no longer necessary. I am on the alert for the first signs of spring, to hear the chance note of some arriving bird, or the striped squirrel's chirp, for his stores must be now nearly exhausted, or see the woodchuck venture out of his winter quarters. On the 13th of March, after I had heard the bluebird, song sparrow, and red-wing, the ice was still nearly a foot thick." -Henry David Thoreau
"...but why not even by their power of abstract thought, that nations should seek to commemorate themselves?" -Henry David Thoreau
"You must live within yourself, and depend upon yourself always tucked up and ready for a start, and not have many affairs." -Henry David Thoreau
"To say that a man is your Friend, means commonly no more than this, that he is not your enemy" -Henry David Thoreau
"After all, the practical reason why, when the power is once in the hands of the people, a majority are permitted, and for a long period continue, to rule is not because they are most likely to be in the right nor because this seems fairest to the minority, but because they are physically the strongest. But a government in which the majority rule in all cases cannot be based on justice, even as far as men understand it." -Henry David Thoreau
"La soledad no se mide por las millas espaciales que separan a un hombre de sus semejantes." -Henry David Thoreau
"Meanwhile also came the chickadees in flocks, which, picking up the crumbs the squirrels had dropped, flew to the nearest twig and, placing them under their claws, hammered away at them with their little bills, as if it were an insect in the bark, till they were sufficiently reduced for their slender throats." -Henry David Thoreau
"Não se incomode muito em ter coisas novas, sejam roupas ou amizades [...]. As coisas não mudam; mudamos nós" -Henry David Thoreau
"The earth is not a mere fragment of dead history, stratum upon stratum like the leaves of a book, to be studied by geologists and antiquaries chiefly, but living poetry like the leaves of a tree, which precede flowers and fruit--not a fossil earth, but a living earth;" -Henry David Thoreau
"Our life is frittered away by detail. An honest man has hardly need to count more than his ten fingers, or in extreme cases he may add his ten toes, and lump the rest. Simplicity, simplicity, simplicity! I say, let your affairs be as two or three, and not a hundred or a thousand; instead of a million count half a dozen, and keep your accounts on your thumb-nail. In the midst of this chopping sea of civilized life, such are the clouds and storms and quicksands and thousand-and-one items to be allowed for, that a man has to live, if he would not founder and go to the bottom and not make his port at all, by dead reckoning, and he must be a great calculator indeed who succeeds. Simplify, simplify." -Henry David Thoreau
"When we consider what, to use the words of the catechism, is the chief end of man, and what are the true necessaries and means of life, it appears as if men had deliberately chosen the common mode of living because they preferred it to any other. Yet they honestly think there is no choice left. But alert and healthy natures remember that the sun rose clear. It is never too late to give up our prejudices. No way of thinking or doing, however ancient, can be trusted without proof. What everybody echoes or in silence passes by as true to-day may turn out to be falsehood to-morrow, mere smoke of opinion, which some had trusted for a cloud that would sprinkle fertilizing rain on their fields. What old people say you cannot do, you try and find that you can. Old deeds for old people, and new deeds for new." -Henry David Thoreau
"The man of science, who is not seeking for expression but for a fact to be expressed merely, studies nature as a dead language.I pray for such inward experience as will make nature significant." -Henry David Thoreau
"Nor wars did men molest, When only beechen bowls were in request." -Henry David Thoreau
"I'd rather sit on a pumpkin, and have it all to myself, than be crowded on a velvet cushion" -Henry David Thoreau
"La legge non renderà mai gli uomini liberi; sono gli uomini a dover mantenere libera la legge." -Henry David Thoreau
"Moreover, I, on my side, require of every writer, first or last, a simple and sincere account of his own life, and not merely what he has heard of other men's lives;" -Henry David Thoreau
"What is once well done is forever" -Henry David Thoreau
"My furniture, part of which I made myself--and the rest cost me nothing of which I have not rendered an account--consisted of a bed, a table, a desk, three chairs, a looking-glass three inches in diameter, a pair of tongs and andirons, a kettle, a skillet, and a frying-pan, a dipper, a wash-bowl, two knives and forks, three plates, one cup, one spoon, a jug for oil, a jug for molasses, and a japanned lamp. None is so poor that he need sit on a pumpkin." -Henry David Thoreau
"All men want, not something to do with, but something to do, or rather something to be. Perhaps we should never procure a new suit, however ragged or dirty the old, until we have so conducted, so enterprised or sailed in some way, that we feel like new men in the old, and that to retain it would be like keeping new wine in old bottles." -Henry David Thoreau
"Blessed are they who never read a newspaper, for they shall see Nature and, through her, God." -Henry David Thoreau
"Perhaps these pages are more particularly addressed to poor students." -Henry David Thoreau
"When he has obtained those things which are necessary in life, there is another alternative than to obtain the superfluities; and that is, to adventure on life now." -Henry David Thoreau
"We should seek to be fellow students with the pupil, and should learn of, as well as with him, if we would be most helpful to him." -Henry David Thoreau
"Every one has heard the story which has gone the rounds of New England, of a strong and beautiful bug which came out of the dry leaf of an old table of apple-wood, which had stood in a farmer's kitchen for sixty years, first in Connecticut, and afterward in Massachusetts -- from an egg deposited in the living tree many years earlier still, as appeared by counting the annual layers beyond it; which was heard gnawing out for several weeks, hatched perchance by the heat of an urn. Who does not feel his faith in a resurrection and immortality strengthened by hearing of this? Who knows what beautiful and winged life, whose egg has been buried for ages under concentric layers of woodness in the dead dry life of society... may come forth from amidst society's most trivial and handselled furniture, to enjoy its perfect summer life at last!" -Henry David Thoreau
"I went to the woods because I wished to live deliberately, to front only the essential facts of life, and see if I could learn what it had to teach, and not, when I come to die, discover that I had not lived . ." -Henry David Thoreau
"Latins aes alienum, another's brass, for some of their coins were made of brass; still living, and dying, and buried by this other's brass; always promising to pay, promising to pay, tomorrow, and dying today, insolvent; seeking to curry favor, to get custom, by how many modes, only not state-prison offenses; lying, flattering, voting, contracting yourselves into a nutshell of civility or dilating into an atmosphere of thin and vaporous generosity, that you may persuade your neighbor to let you make his shoes, or his hat, or his coat, or his carriage, or import his groceries for him; making yourselves sick, that you may lay up something against a sick day, something to be tucked away in an old chest, or in a stocking behind the plastering, or, more safely, in the brick bank; no matter where, no matter" -Henry David Thoreau
"Não é desejável cultivar o respeito às leis no mesmo nível do respeito aos direitos. (...) A lei nunca fez os homens sequer um pouco mais justos; e o respeito reverente pela lei tem levado até mesmo os bem-intencionados a agir quotidianamente como mensageiros da injustiça." -Henry David Thoreau
"These nuts, as far as they went, were a good substitute for bread. Many other substitutes might, perhaps, be found. Digging one day for fishworms, I discovered the ground-nut (Apios tuberosa) on its string, the potato of the aborigines, a sort of fabulous fruit, which I had begun to doubt if I had ever dug and eaten in childhood, as I had told, and had not dreamed it. I had often since seen its crumpled red velvety blossom supported by the stems of other plants without knowing it to be the same. Cultivation has well-nigh exterminated it. It has a sweetish taste, much like that of a frost-bitten potato, and I found it better boiled than roasted. This tuber seemed like a faint promise of Nature to rear her own children and feed them simply here at some future period. In these days of fatted cattle and waving grain-fields this humble root, which was once the totem of an Indian tribe, is quite forgotten, or known only by its flowering vine; but let wild Nature reign here once more, and the tender and luxurious English grains will probably disappear before a myriad of foes, and without the care of man the crow may carry back even the last seed of corn to the great cornfield of the Indian› s God in the southwest, whence he is said to have brought it; but the now almost exterminated ground-nut will perhaps revive and flourish in spite of frosts and wildness, prove itself indigenous, and resume its ancient importance and dignity as the diet of the hunter tribe." -Henry David Thoreau
"Not long since, a strolling Indian went to sell baskets at the house of a well-known lawyer in my neighborhood. 'Do you wish to buy any baskets?' he asked. 'No, we do not want any,' was the reply. 'What!' exclaimed the Indian as he went out the gate, 'do you mean to starve us?' Having seen his industrious white neighbors so well off--that the lawyer had only to weave arguments, and, by some magic, wealth and standing followed--he had said to himself: I will go into business; I will weave baskets; it is a thing which I can do. Thinking that when he had made the baskets he would have done his part, and then it would be the white man's to buy them. He had not discovered that it was necessary for him to make it worth the other's while to buy them, or at least make him think that it was so, or to make something else which it would be worth his while to buy." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is a ridiculous demand which England and America make, that you shall speak so that they can understand you." -Henry David Thoreau
"Chi non crede che ogni giorno contiene un'ora più mattutina, più sacra e più rosea di quelle che finora ha profanato, ha perduto ogni speranza della vita e segue un cammino che lo porta sempre più in basso." -Henry David Thoreau
"My desire for knowledge is intermittent, but my desire to bathe my head in atmospheres unknown to my feet is perennial and constant. The highest that we can attain to is not Knowledge, but Sympathy with Intelligence. I do not know that this higher knowledge amounts to anything more definite than a novel and grand surprise on a sudden revelation of the insufficiency of all that we called Knowledge before,--a discovery that there are more things in heaven and earth than are dreamed of in our philosophy. It is the lighting up of the mist by the sun. Man cannot know in any higher sense than this, any more than he can look serenely and with impunity in the face of the sun: 'You will not perceive that, as perceiving a particular thing,' say the Chaldean Oracles." -Henry David Thoreau
"A single gentle rain makes the grass many shades greener. So our prospects brighten on the the influx of better thoughts. We should be blessed if we lived in the present always, and took advantage of every accident that befell us, like the grass which confesses the influence of the slightest dew that falls on it; and did not spend our time in atoning for the neglect of the past opportunities, which we call doing our duty. We loiter in winter while it is already spring. In a pleasant spring morning all men's sins are forgiven. Such a day is truce to vice." -Henry David Thoreau
"If you stand right fronting and face-to-face to a fact, you will see the sun glimmer on both its surfaces, as if it were a scimitar, and feel its sweet edge dividing you through the heart and marrow, and so you will happily conclude your mortal career." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is only when we forget our learning, do we begin to know." -Henry David Thoreau
"… To je bila svetloba, ki si je še trenutke pred tem ne bi mogla predstavljati in tudi zrak je bil tako topel in miren, da bi travnik ne mogel biti bolj nebeški. Ko sva pomislila, da to ni bil osamljen pojav, ki se ne bo zgodil nikoli več, temveč da se bo dogajal večno, ob nešteto večerih, in razsvetljeval ter pomirjal najnovejše otroke, ki bodo hodili tamkaj, se je zdel še veličastnejši." -Henry David Thoreau
"To be awake is to be alive. I have never yet met a man who was quite awake. How could I have looked him in the face? We must learn to reawaken and keep ourselves awake, not by mechanical aids, but by an infinite expectation of the dawn, which does not forsake us in our soundest sleep. I know of no more encouraging fact than the unquestionable ability of man to elevate his life by conscious endeavor." -Henry David Thoreau
"Time is but the stream I go a-fishing in. I drink at it; but while I drink I see the sandy bottom and detect how shallow it is. Its thin current slides away, but eternity remains. I would drink deeper; fish in the sky, whose bottom is pebbly with stars. I cannot count one. I know not the first letter of the alphabet. I have always been regretting that I was not as wise as the day I was born." -Henry David Thoreau
"No face which we can give to a matter will stead us so well at last as the truth. This alone wears well. <...> Say what you have to say, not what you ought. Any truth is better than make-believe." -Henry David Thoreau
"We cannot conceive of a greater difference than between the life of one man and that of another." -Henry David Thoreau
"We have built for this world a family mansion, and for the next a family tomb." -Henry David Thoreau
"[Nature, smiling,] seems to say sternly, why came ye here before your time? This ground is not prepared for you. Is it not enough that I smile in the valleys? I have never made this soil for thy feet, this air for thy breathing, these rocks for thy neighbors." -Henry David Thoreau
"I meet this American government, or its representative the State government, directly, and face to face, once a year, no more, in the person of its tax-gatherer; that is the only mode in which a man situated as I am necessarily meets it; and it then says distinctly, Recognize me; and the simplest, the most effectual, and, in the present posture of affairs, the indispensablest mode of treating with it on this head, of expressing your little satisfaction with and love for it, is to deny it then. My civil neighbor, the tax-gatherer, is the very man I have to deal with, --for it is, after all, with men and not with parchment that I quarrel,--and he has voluntarily chosen to be an agent of the government." -Henry David Thoreau
"Any fool can make a rule, and every fool will mind it." -Henry David Thoreau
"Light-winged Smoke, Icarian bird, Melting thy pinions in thy upward flight, Lark without song, and messenger of dawn, Circling above the hamlets as thy nest; Or else, departing dream, and shadowy form Of midnight vision, gathering up thy skirts; By night star-veiling, and by day Darkening the light and blotting out the sun; Go thou my incense upward from this hearth, And ask the gods to pardon this clear flame." -Henry David Thoreau
"All men want, not something to do with, but something to do, or something to be." -Henry David Thoreau
"Every man looks at his woodpile with a kind of affection." -Henry David Thoreau
"Happiness is like a butterfly: the more you chase it, the more it will elude you. But if you turn your intention to other things, it will come and sit softly on your shoulder." -Henry David Thoreau
"Still grows the vivacious lilac a generation after the door and lintel and the sill are gone, unfolding its sweet-scented flowers each spring, to be plucked by the musing traveller; planted and tended once by children's hands, in front-yard plots--now standing by wallsides in retired pastures, and giving place to new-rising forests;--the last of that stirp, sole survivor of that family. Little did the dusky children think that the puny slip with its two eyes only, which they stuck in the ground in the shadow of the house and daily watered, would root itself so, and outlive them, and house itself in the rear that shaded it, and grown man's garden and orchard, and tell their story faintly to the lone wanderer a half-century after they had grown up and died--blossoming as fair, and smelling as sweet, as in that first spring. I mark its still tender, civil, cheerful lilac colors." -Henry David Thoreau
"It's not what you look at that matters, it's what you see'." -Henry David Thoreau
"Si he de arrastrar mi trampa, me cuidaré de que sea ligera y no me pellizque en una parte vital" -Henry David Thoreau
"When the villagers were lighting their fires beyond the horizon, I too gave notice to the various wild inhabitants of Walden vale, by a smoky streamer from my chimney, that I was awake.-- Light-winged Smoke, Icarian bird, Melting thy pinions in thy upward flight, Lark without song, and messenger of dawn, Circling above the hamlets as thy nest; Or else, departing dream, and shadowy form Of midnight vision, gathering up thy skirts; By night star-veiling, and by day Darkening the light and blotting out the sun; Go thou my incense upward from this hearth, And ask the gods to pardon this clear flame. Hard green wood just cut, though I used but little of that, answered my purpose better than any other. I sometimes left a good fire when I went to take a walk in a winter afternoon; and when I returned, three or four hours afterward, it would be still alive and glowing." -Henry David Thoreau
"Sic VitaI am a parcel of vain strivings tied  By a chance bond together,  Dangling this way and that, their links  Were made so loose and wide,  Methinks,  For milder weather. A bunch of violets without their roots,  And sorrel intermixed,  Encircled by a wisp of straw  Once coiled about their shoots,  The law  By which I'm fixed. A nosegay which Time clutched from out  Those fair Elysian fields,  With weeds and broken stems, in haste,  Doth make the rabble rout  That waste  The day he yields. And here I bloom for a short hour unseen,  Drinking my juices up,  With no root in the land  To keep my branches green,  But stand  In a bare cup. Some tender buds were left upon my stem  In mimicry of life,  But ah! the children will not know,  Till time has withered them,  The woe  With which they're rife. But now I see I was not plucked for naught,  And after in life's vase  Of glass set while I might survive,  But by a kind hand brought  Alive  To a strange place. That stock thus thinned will soon redeem its hours,  And by another year,  Such as God knows, with freer air,  More fruits and fairer flowers  Will bear,  While I droop here." -Henry David Thoreau
"WHEN I WROTE THE FOLLOWING PAGES, OR RATHER THE BULK OF THEM, I lived alone, in the woods, a mile from any neighbor, in a house which I had built myself, on the shore of Walden Pond, in Concord, Massachusetts, and earned my living by the labor of my hands only. I lived there two years and two months. At present I am a sojourner in civilized life again." -Henry David Thoreau
"Most of the luxuries, and many of the so called comforts of life, are not only not indispensable, but positive hindrances to the elevation of mankind. With respect to luxuries and comforts, the wisest have ever lived a more simple and meagre life than the poor." -Henry David Thoreau
"equal" -Henry David Thoreau
"Many a poor sore-eyed student that I have heard of would grow faster, both intellectually and physically, if, instead of sitting up so very late, he honestly slumbered a fool's allowance." -Henry David Thoreau
"If I seem to boast more than is becoming, my excuse is that I brag for humanity rather than for myself; and my shortcomings and inconsistencies do not affect the truth of my statement." -Henry David Thoreau
"Tokie jau rytdienos prigimitis - ji niekada neišaušta, genama vien laiko. Šviesa, kuri akina, mums atrodo kaip tamsa. Išaušta tik tas rytas, kuriame mes patys pabundame. Diena ateina po aušros. Saulė tėra ryto žvaidžgė." -Henry David Thoreau
"Os únicos seres felizes no mundo são os que gozam livremente de um vasto horizonte" -Henry David Thoreau
"Not long since I was present at the auction of a deacon's effects, for his life had not been ineffectual:--'The evil that men do lives after them.'As usual, a great proportion was trumpery which had begun to accumulate in his father's day. Among the rest was a dried tapeworm. And now, after lying half a century in his garret and other dust holes, these things were not burned; instead of a bonfire, or purifying destruction of them, there was an auction, or increasing of them. The neighbors eagerly collected to view them, bought them all, and carefully transported them to their garrets and dust holes, to lie there till their estates are settled, when they will start again." -Henry David Thoreau
"It's not what you look at that matters; it's what you see." -Henry David Thoreau
"What I have observed of the pond is no less true in ethics. ... Such a rule ... draws lines through the length and breadth of the aggregate of a man's particular daily behaviors ... where they intersect will be the height or depth of his character." -Henry David Thoreau
"Cuando se me condena, y cuando yo mismo me condeno enteramente, enseguida pienso: pero puedo contar con mi amor hacia algunas cosas. Y ahí estoy pleno y entero. Ahí es donde Dios me sostiene" -Henry David Thoreau
"En général, les hommes, sous un gouvernement comme le nôtre, croient de leur devoir d'attendre que la majorité se soit rendue à leurs raisons. Ils croient que s'ils résistaient, le remède serait pire que le mal ; mais si le remède se révèle pire que le mal, c'est bien la faute du gouvernement. C'est lui le responsable." -Henry David Thoreau
"Ciò che un uomo pensa di se stesso, è quello che determina, o piuttosto indica, il suo destino." -Henry David Thoreau
"I would not subtract anything from the praise that is due to philanthropy but merely demand justice for all who by their lives and works are a blessing to mankind." -Henry David Thoreau
"I went to the woods because I wished to live deliberately, to front only the essential facts of life, and see if I could not learn what it had to teach, and not, when I came to die, discover that I had not lived. I did not wish to live what was not life, living is so dear; nor did I wish to practise resignation, unless it was quite necessary. I wanted to live deep and suck out all the marrow of life, to live so sturdily and Spartan-like as to put to rout all that was not life, to cut a broad swath and shave close, to drive life into a corner, and reduce it to its lowest terms, and, if it proved to be mean, why then to get the whole and genuine meanness of it, and publish its meanness to the world; or if it were sublime, to know it by experience, and be able to give a true account of it in my next excursion." -Henry David Thoreau
"I see young men, my townsmen, whose misfortune it is to have inherited farms, houses, barns, cattle, and farming tools; for these are more easily acquired than got rid of." -Henry David Thoreau
"Most men, even in this comparatively free country, through mere ignorance and mistake, are so occupied with the factitious cares and superfluously coarse labors of life that its finer fruits cannot be plucked by them. Their fingers, from excessive toil, are too clumsy and tremble too much for that. Actually, the laboring man has not leisure for a true integrity day by day; he cannot afford to sustain the manliest relations to men; his labor would be depreciated in the market. He has no time to be any thing but a machine." -Henry David Thoreau
"it matters not how small the beginning may seem to be: what is once well done is done forever." -Henry David Thoreau
"Nem arra születtem, hogy kényszert alkalmazzanak velem szemben. Szabadon akarok lélegezni. Hadd lássuk, ki az erősebb. (…) Engem csak azok kényszeríthetnek valamire, akik valamilyen magasabb törvénynek engedelmeskednek, mint én." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is a fool's life, as they will find when they get to the end of it, if not before." -Henry David Thoreau
"I hardly know an intellectual man, even, who is so broad and truly liberal that you can think aloud in his society. Most with whom you endeavor to talk soon come to a stand against some institution in which they appear to hold stock- that is, some particular, not universal, way of viewing things. They will continually thrust their own low roof, with its narrow skylight, between you and the sky, when it is the unobstructed heavens you would view. Get out of the way with your cobwebs; wash your windows, I say!" -Henry David Thoreau
"So here we are moving toward the exit of the twentieth century with a religious community largely adjusted to the status quo, standing as a tail light behind other community agencies rather than a headlight leading men to higher levels of justice." -Henry David Thoreau
"I know of no more encouraging fact than the unquestionable ability of man to elevate his life by a conscious endeavor." -Henry David Thoreau
"The constant abrasion and decay of our lives makes the soil of our future growth." -Henry David Thoreau
"Ich würde nicht so viel über mich reden, wenn ich irgend jemand anderen ebenso gut kennte." -Henry David Thoreau
"By a seeming fate, commonly called necessity, they are employed, as it says in an old book, laying up treasures which moth and rust will corrupt and thieves break through and steal. It is a fool's life, as they will find when they get to the end of it, if not before." -Henry David Thoreau
"To be a philosopher is not merely to have subtle thoughts, nor even to found a school, but so to love wisdom as to live according to its dictates, a life of simplicity, independence, magnanimity, and trust. It is to solve some of the problems of life, not only theoretically, but practically. The" -Henry David Thoreau
"I cannot make my days longer so I strive to make them better." -Henry David Thoreau
"The winds which passed over my dwelling were such as sweep over the rides of mountains, bearing the broken strains, or celestial parts only, of terrestrial music." -Henry David Thoreau
"Det mesta som betraktas som gott är jag innerligt övertygad om är dåligt, och finns det något jag ångrar är det med största sannolikhet mitt goda uppförande." -Henry David Thoreau
"Most men appear never to have considered what a house is, and are actually though needlessly poor all their lives because they think that they must have such a one as their neighbors have." -Henry David Thoreau
"Rather than love, than money, than fame, give me truth. I sat at a table where were rich food and wine in abundance, and obsequious attendance, but sincerity and truth were not; and I went away hungry from the inhospitable board. The hospitality was as cold as the ices. I thought that there was no need of ice to freeze them. They talked to me of the age of the wine and the fame of the vintage; but I thought of an older, a newer, and purer wine, of a more glorious vintage, which they had not got, and could not buy. The style, the house and grounds and 'entertainment' pass for nothing with me. I called on the king, but he made me wait in his hall, and conducted like a man incapacitated for hospitality. There was a man in my neighborhood who lived in a hollow tree. His manners were truly regal. I should have done better had I called on him." -Henry David Thoreau
"But I would say to my fellows, once for all, As long as possible live free and uncommitted. It makes but little difference whether you are committed to a farm or the county jail." -Henry David Thoreau
"For my part, I could easily do without the post-office. I think that there are very few important communications made through it. To speak critically, I never received more than one or two letters in my life--I wrote this some years ago--that were worth the postage. The penny-post is, commonly, an institution through which you seriously offer a man that penny for his thoughts which is so often safely offered in jest. And I am sure that I never read any memorable news in a newspaper. If we read of one man robbed, or murdered, or killed by accident, or one house burned, or one vessel wrecked, or one steamboat blown up, or one cow run over on the Western Railroad, or one mad dog killed, or one lot of grasshoppers in the winter,--we never need read of another. One is enough. If you are acquainted with the principle, what do you care for a myriad instances and applications? To a philosopher all , as it is called, is gossip, and they who edit and read it are old women over their tea." -Henry David Thoreau
"Most men have learned to read to serve a paltry convenience, as they have learned to cipher in order to keep accounts and not be cheated in trade; but of reading as a noble intellectual exercise they know little or nothing." -Henry David Thoreau
"Yet I am sure that there is greater anxiety, commonly, to have fashionable, or at least clean and unpatched clothes, than to have a sound conscience." -Henry David Thoreau
"Birds never sing in caves." -Henry David Thoreau
"The wildest dreams of wild men, even, are not the less true, though they may not recommend themselves to the sense which is most common among Englishmen and Americans today. It is not every truth that recommends itself to the common sense. Nature has a place for the wild Clematis as well as for the cabbage. Some expressions of truth are reminiscent--others merely SENSIBLE, as the phrase is,--others prophetic. Some forms of disease, even, may prophesy forms of health. The geologist has discovered that the figures of serpents, griffins, flying dragons, and other fanciful embellishments of heraldry, have their prototypes in the forms of fossil species which were extinct before man was created, and hence 'indicate a faint and shadowy knowledge of a previous state of organic existence.' The Hindus dreamed that the earth rested on an elephant, and the elephant on a tortoise, and the tortoise on a serpent; and though it may be an unimportant coincidence, it will not be out of place here to state, that a fossil tortoise has lately been discovered in Asia large enough to support an elephant. I confess that I am partial to these wild fancies, which transcend the order of time and development. They are the sublimest recreation of the intellect. The partridge loves peas, but not those that go with her into the pot. In short, all good things are wild and free." -Henry David Thoreau
"As for Clothing, to come at once to the practical part of the question, perhaps we are led oftener by the love of novelty, and a regard for the opinions of men, in procuring it, than by a true utility." -Henry David Thoreau
"The man I meet is seldom so instructive as the silence which he breaks" -Henry David Thoreau
"A man, any man, will go out of his way to pick up a silver dollar; but here are golden words, which the wisest men of antiquity have uttered, and whose worth the wise of every succeeding age have assured us of;--and yet we learn to read only as far as Easy Reading, the primers and class-books, and when we leave school, the 'Little Reading,' and story-books, which are for boys and beginners; and our reading, our conversation and thinking, are all on a very low level, worthy only of pygmies and manikins." -Henry David Thoreau
"«Fui a los bosques porque quería vivir deliberadamente, enfrentar solo los hechos esenciales de la vida, y ver si no podía aprender lo que ella tenia que enseñar, no sea que cuando estuviera por morir descubriera que no había vivido»." -Henry David Thoreau
"Olympus is but the outside of the earth everywhere." -Henry David Thoreau
"All change is a miracle to contemplate; but it is a miracle which is taking place every instant. Confucius said, 'To know that we know what we know, and that we do not know what we do not know, that is true knowledge.' When one man has reduced a fact of the imagination to be a fact to his understanding, I foresee that all men at length establish their lives on that basis." -Henry David Thoreau
"Before we can adorn our houses with beautiful objects the walls must be stripped, and our lives must be stripped, and beautiful housekeeping and beautiful living be laid for a foundation: now, a taste for the beautiful is most cultivated out of doors, where there is no house and no housekeeper." -Henry David Thoreau
"Ainsi, sous le nom d'Ordre et de Gouvernement Civique, nous sommes tous amenés à rendre hommage et allégeance à notre propre médiocrité. On rougit d'abord de son crime et puis on s'y habitue ; et le voilà qui d'immoral devient amoral et non sans usage dans la vie que nous nous sommes fabriquée." -Henry David Thoreau
"They who are at work abroad are not cold, but rather it is they who sit shivering in houses. As with temperatures, so with flavors; as with cold and heat, so with sour and sweet." -Henry David Thoreau
"Moreover, I, on my side, require of every writer, first or last, a simple and sincere account of his own life, and not merely what he has heard of other men's lives; some such account as he would send to his kindred from a distant land; for if he has lived sincerely, it must have been in a distant land to me." -Henry David Thoreau
"I can almost say, Walden, is it you? It is no dream of mine, To ornament a line; I cannot come nearer to God and Heaven Than I live to Walden even. I am its stony shore, And the breeze that passes o'er; In the hollow of my hand Are its water and its sand, And its deepest resort Lies high in my thought." -Henry David Thoreau
"Virtue does not remain as an abandoned orphan; it must of necessity have neighbors." -Henry David Thoreau
"Rather than love, than money, than fame, give me truth. I sat at a table where were rich food and wine in abundance, and obsequious attendance, but sincerity and truth were not; and I went away hungry from the inhospitable board. The hospitality was as cold as the ices. I thought that there was no need of ice to freeze them. They talked to me of the age of the wine and the fame of the vintage; but I thought of an older, a newer, and purer wine, of a more glorious vintage, which they had not got, and could not buy. The style, the house and grounds and 'entertainment' pass for nothing with me. I called on the king, but he made me wait in his hall, and conducted like a man incapacitated for hospitality. There was a man in my neighborhood who lived in a hollow tree. His manners were truly regal. I should have done better had I called on him." -Henry David Thoreau
"I did not wish to take a cabin passage, but rather to go before the mast and on the deck of the world, for there I could best see the moonlight amid the mountains. I do not wish to go below now." -Henry David Thoreau
"The price of anything is the amount of life you exchange for it" -Henry David Thoreau
"Probabilmente ci sono delle parole rivolte giusto alla nostra condizione che, se le potessimo davvero sentire e capire, sarebbero e potrebbero forse rivelare il volto diverso delle cose. Quanti uomini hanno dato inizio a una nuova epoca della propria vita dalla lettura d'un libro! Esiste forse anche per noi un libro che mette in luce i nostri miracoli e ne rivela di nuovi. Le cose che adesso ci sembrano inesprimibili possiamo trovarle espresse altrove." -Henry David Thoreau
"What I have observed of the pond is no less true in ethics. Such a rule of the two diameters not only guides us toward the sun in the system and the heart in man, but draws lines through the length and breadth of the aggregate of a man's particular daily behaviors and waves of life into his coves and inlets, and where they intersect will be the height and depth of his character. Perhaps we only need to know how his shores trend, and his adjacent country or circumstances, to infer his depth and concealed bottom. If he is surrounded by mountainous circumstances, an Achillean shore, whose peaks overshadow and are reflected in his bosom, they suggest a corresponding depth to him. But a low and smooth shore proves him shallow on that side. Also there is a bar across the entrance of our every cove, or particular inclination; each is a harbor for a season, in which we are detained and partially landlocked. These inclinations are not whimsical usually, but their form, size, and direction are determined by the promontories of the shore, the ancient axes of elevation. When this bar is gradually increased by storms, tides, or currents, or there is a subsidence of waters…It becomes an individual lake, cut off from the ocean, wherein the thought secures its own conditions, changes, perhaps, from salt to fresh, becomes a sweet sea, dead sea, or a marsh." -Henry David Thoreau
"If we respected only what is inevitable and has a right to be, music and poetry would resound along the streets. When we are unhurried and wise, we perceive that only great and worthy things have any permanent and absolute existence, that petty fears and petty pleasures are but the shadow of the reality." -Henry David Thoreau
"¿Cómo podría recordar su ignorancia --según requiere su crecimiento-- quien ha de usar tanto su conocimiento?" -Henry David Thoreau
"On doit vivre en soi, ne dépendre que de soi, et, toujours à pied d'œuvre et prêt à repartir, ne pas s'encombrer de multiples affaires." -Henry David Thoreau
"Direct your eye right inward, and you'll find A thousand regions in your mind Yet undiscovered. Travel them, and be Expert in home-cosmography.'* What" -Henry David Thoreau
"To come down to my own experience, my companion and I, for I sometimes have a companion, take pleasure in fancying ourselves knights of a new, or rather an old, order--not Equestrians or Chevaliers, not Ritters or Riders, but Walkers, a still more ancient and honorable class, I trust." -Henry David Thoreau
"I went to the woods because I wished to live deliberately, to front only the essential facts of life, and see if I could not learn what it had to teach, and not, when I came to die, discover that I had not lived" -Henry David Thoreau
"Једноставност и незаштићеност човековог живота у примитивном добу имају бар ту предност што га чине само намерником у природи. Кад би се окрепио храном и сном, поново би се спремао на пут. Живео је у шатору на овом свету, газио долине, прелазио равнице, или се пењао на планинске врхове. Али гле! Људи су постали оруђе својих оруђа. Човек који је самостално брао воће кад је био гладан, постао је фармер, а онај што је тражио заклон под дрветом, домаћин. Не разапињемо више шатор за једну ноћ, него смо се сместили на земљи и заборавили небо. Прихватили смо хришћанство само као усавршен метод агри-културе. Саградили смо породичну кућу за овај свет, и породичну гробницу за онај. Најбоља уметничка дела су израз човекове борбе да се ослободи таквог стања, а једино дејство наше уметности је да то јадно стање учини удобним, да се узвишеније заборави." -Henry David Thoreau
"Most men, even in this comparatively free country, through mere ignorance and mistake, are so occupied with the factitious cares and superfluously coarse labors of life that its finer fruits cannot be plucked by them. Their fingers, from excessive toil, are too clumsy and tremble too much for that. Actually, the laboring man has not leisure for a true integrity day by day; he cannot afford to sustain the manliest relations to men; his labor would be depreciated in the market. He has no time to be anything but a machine." -Henry David Thoreau
"Gastamos mais em praticamente qualquer item de nossa saúde física ou falta da saúde física do que em nossa saúde mental" -Henry David Thoreau
"A voice said to him--Why do you stay here and live this mean moiling life, when a glorious existence is possible for you? Those same stars twinkle over other fields than these.--But how to come out of this condition and actually migrate thither? All that he could think of was to practise some new austerity, to let his mind descend into his body and redeem it, and treat himself with ever increasing respect." -Henry David Thoreau
"As Thoreau wrote, 'It's not what you look at that matters, it's what you see." -Henry David Thoreau
"Thoreau thought obsessively about time and the various ways it could be manipulated by writing; he collapses the two years he spent at Walden into one for the sake of 'convenience,' but surely also for the sake of artistry." -Henry David Thoreau
"One piece of good sense would be more memorable than a monument as high as the moon" -Henry David Thoreau
"Books are the treasured wealth of the world" -Henry David Thoreau
"The at present unutterable things we may find somewhere uttered." -Henry David Thoreau
"Shall the world be confined to one Paris or one Oxford forever?" -Henry David Thoreau
"the principal object is, not that mankind may be well and honestly clad, but, unquestionably, that corporations may be enriched." -Henry David Thoreau
"I was witness to events of a less peaceful character. One day when I went out to my wood-pile, or rather my pile of stumps, I observed two large ants, the one red, the other much larger, nearly half an inch long, and black, fiercely contending with one another. Having once got hold they never let go, but struggled and wrestled and rolled on the chips incessantly. Looking farther, I was surprised to find that the chips were covered with such combatants, that it was not a duellum, but a bellum, a war between two races of ants, the red always pitted against the black, and frequently two red ones to one black. The legions of these Myrmidons covered all the hills and vales in my wood-yard, and the ground was already strewn with the dead and dying, both red and black. It was the only battle which I have ever witnessed, the only battle-field I ever trod while the battle was raging; internecine war; the red republicans on the one hand, and the black imperialists on the other. On every side they were engaged in deadly combat, yet without any noise that I could hear, and human soldiers never fought so resolutely. I watched a couple that were fast locked in each other's embraces, in a little sunny valley amid the chips, now at noonday prepared to fight till the sun went down, or life went out. The smaller red champion had fastened himself like a vice to his adversary's front, and through all the tumblings on that field never for an instant ceased to gnaw at one of his feelers near the root, having already caused the other to go by the board; while the stronger black one dashed him from side to side, and, as I saw on looking nearer, had already divested him of several of his members. They fought with more pertinacity than bulldogs. Neither manifested the least disposition to retreat. It was evident that their battle-cry was 'Conquer or die.' In the meanwhile there came along a single red ant on the hillside of this valley, evidently full of excitement, who either had despatched his foe, or had not yet taken part in the battle; probably the latter, for he had lost none of his limbs; whose mother had charged him to return with his shield or upon it. Or perchance he was some Achilles, who had nourished his wrath apart, and had now come to avenge or rescue his Patroclus. He saw this unequal combat from afar--for the blacks were nearly twice the size of the red--he drew near with rapid pace till he stood on his guard within half an inch of the combatants; then, watching his opportunity, he sprang upon the black warrior, and commenced his operations near the root of his right fore leg, leaving the foe to select among his own members; and so there were three united for life, as if a new kind of attraction had been invented which put all other locks and cements to shame. I should not have wondered by this time to find that they had their respective musical bands stationed on some eminent chip, and playing their national airs the while, to excite the slow and cheer the dying combatants. I was myself excited somewhat even as if they had been men. The more you think of it, the less the difference. And certainly there is not the fight recorded in Concord history, at least, if in the history of America, that will bear a moment's comparison with this, whether for the numbers engaged in it, or for the patriotism and heroism displayed. For numbers and for carnage it was an Austerlitz or Dresden. Concord Fight! Two killed on the patriots' side, and Luther Blanchard wounded! Why here every ant was a Buttrick--'Fire! for God's sake fire!'--and thousands shared the fate of Davis and Hosmer. There was not one hireling there. I have no doubt that it was a principle they fought for, as much as our ancestors, and not to avoid a three-penny tax on their tea; and the results of this battle will be as important and memorable to those whom it concerns as those of the battle of Bunker Hill, at least." -Henry David Thoreau
"There are thousands who are  opposed to slavery and to the war, who yet in effect do nothing to put an end to them; who, esteeming themselves children of Washington and Franklin, sit down with their hands in their pockets, and say that they know not what to do, and do nothing; who even postpone the question of freedom to the question of free-trade, and quietly read the prices-current along with the latest advances from Mexico, after dinner, and, it may be, fall asleep over them both. What is the price-current of an honest man and a patriot to-day? They hesitate, and they regret, and sometimes they petition; but they do nothing in earnest and with effect. They will wait, well disposed, for others to remedy the evil, that they may no longer have it to regret. At most, they give only a cheap vote, and a feeble countenance and God-speed, to the right, as it goes by them. There are nine hundred and ninety-nine patrons of virtue to one virtuous man; but it is easier to deal with the real possessor of a thing than with the temporary guardian of it." -Henry David Thoreau
"Talk of heaven! ye disgrace earth" -Henry David Thoreau
"greater part of what my neighbors call good I believe in my soul to be bad, and if I repent of anything, it is very likely to be my good behavior." -Henry David Thoreau
"We love eloquence for its own sake, and not for any truth which it may utter, or any heroism it may inspire." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is the greatest of all advantages to enjoy no advantage at all." -Henry David Thoreau
"There can be no very black melancholy for him who has his senses still and lives in the midst of nature." -Henry David Thoreau
"The necessaries of life for man in this climate may, accurately enough, be distributed under the several heads of Food, Shelter, Clothing, and Fuel; for not till we have secured these are we prepared to entertain the true problems of life with freedom and a prospect of success." -Henry David Thoreau
"The editor is a preacher whom you involuntarily support. Your tax is commonly one cent daily, and it costs nothing for pew hire. But how many an intelligent foreigner, as well as my own convictions, when I say, that probably no country was ever ruled by so mean a class of tyrants as, with a few noble exceptions, are the editors of the periodical press in  country. And as they live and rule only by their servility, and appealing to the worst of the, and not the better nature of man, the people who read them are in the condition of the dog that returns to his vomit." -Henry David Thoreau
"Und wirklich, je mehr er sich zu erniedrigen schien, desto mehr schien er erhöht zu werden." -Henry David Thoreau
"A man is not a good man to me because he will feed me if I should be starving, or warm me if I should be freezing, or pull me out of a ditch if I should ever fall into one. I can find you a Newfoundland dog that will do as much." -Henry David Thoreau
"there is greater anxiety, commonly, to have fashionable, or at least clean and unpatched clothes, than to have a sound conscience." -Henry David Thoreau
"think that I cannot preserve my health and spirits, unless I spend four hours a day at least--and it is commonly more than that--sauntering through the woods and over the hills and fields, absolutely free from all worldly engagements." -Henry David Thoreau
"The false society of men----for earthly greatnessAll heavenly comforts rarefies to air." -Henry David Thoreau
"What is the value of any political freedom, but as a means to moral freedom?" -Henry David Thoreau
"Muita gente se preocupa com os monumentos do ocidente e do oriente, quer saber quem os construiu. De minha parte, gostaria de saber quem nessa época deixou de construí-los, quem estava acima de tais ninharias." -Henry David Thoreau
"Ich für meinen Teil war nie besonders wählerisch; wenn es nötig wäre, könnte ich eine gebratene Ratte mit Appetit verzehren. Ich bin froh, immer Wasser getrunken zu haben, und das aus dem gleichen Grund, aus dem ich den natürlichen Himmel dem eines Opiumrauchers vorziehe." -Henry David Thoreau
"I am no more lonely than the loon in the pond that laughs so loud, or than Walden Pond itself." -Henry David Thoreau
"Direct your eye right inward, and you'll find A thousand regions in your mind Yet undiscovered. Travel them, and be Expert in home-cosmography." -Henry David Thoreau
"A man, any man, will go considerably out of his way to pick up a silver dollar; but here are golden words, which the wisest men of antiquity have uttered, and whose worth the wise of every succeeding age have assured us of; -- and yet we learn to read only as far as Easy Reading, the primers and class-books, and when we leave school, the 'Little Reading,' and story-books, which are for boys and beginners; and our reading, our conversation and thinking, are all on a very low level, worthy only of pygmies and manikins." -Henry David Thoreau
"Is it not a reproach that man is a carnivorous animal? True, he can and does live, in a great measure, by preying on other animals; but this is a miserable way--as any one who will go to snaring rabbits, or slaughtering lambs, may learn--and he will be regarded as a benefactor of his race who shall teach man to confine himself to a more innocent and wholesome diet. Whatever my own practice may be, I have no doubt that it is a part of the destiny of the human race, in its gradual improvement, to leave off eating animals, as surely as the savage tribes have left off eating each other when they came in contact with the more civilized." -Henry David Thoreau
"A man is rich in proportion to the number of things he can afford to let alone." -Henry David Thoreau
"Live at home like a traveler." -Henry David Thoreau
"To walk in a winter morning in a wood where these birds abounded, their native woods, and hear the wild cockerels crow on the trees, clear and shrill for miles over the resounding earth, drowning the feebler notes of other birds--think of it! It would put nations on the alert. Who would not be early to rise, and rise earlier and earlier every successive day of his life, till he became unspeakably healthy, wealthy, and wise?" -Henry David Thoreau
"If a man doesn't keep pace with his companions, perhaps it's because he hears a different drummer." -Henry David Thoreau
"Go confidently in the direction of your dreams. Live the life you have imagined" -Henry David Thoreau
"but all the afternoon too, sitting with crossed legs, so many of them--as if the legs were made to sit upon, and not to stand or walk upon--I think that they deserve some credit for not having all committed suicide long ago." -Henry David Thoreau
"This is the only way, we say; but there are as many ways as there can be drawn radii from one centre." -Henry David Thoreau
"Though I don't believe that a plant will spring up where no seed has been, I have great faith in a seed. Convince me that you have a seed there and I am prepared to expect wonders." -Henry David Thoreau
"...I went to the woods because I wished to live deliberately, to front only the essential facts of life, and see if I could learn what it had to teach - and not, when I came to die, discover that I had not lived." -Henry David Thoreau
"While I enjoy the friendship of the seasons, I trust that nothing can make life a burden to me." -Henry David Thoreau
"One is enough. If you are acquainted with the principle, what do you care for a myriad instances and applications? To a philosopher all news, as it is called, is gossip, and they who edit and read it are old women over their tea. Yet not a few are greedy after this gossip. There was such a rush, as I hear, the other day at one of the offices to learn the foreign news by the last arrival, that several large squares of plate glass belonging to the establishment were broken by the pressure--news which I seriously think a ready wit might write a twelve-month, or twelve years, beforehand with sufficient accuracy." -Henry David Thoreau
"should not talk so much about myself if there were anybody else whom I knew as well. Unfortunately, I am confined to this theme by the narrowness of my experience. Moreover," -Henry David Thoreau
"The most I can do for my friend is simply be his friend." -Henry David Thoreau
"Go confidently in the direction of your dreams! Live the life you've imagined" -Henry David Thoreau
"No importa que el comienzo sea pequeño; lo que se hace bien una vez, queda bien hecho para siempre." -Henry David Thoreau
"I did not feel lonesome; if I was not afraid; and the like. Others have been curious to learn what portion of my income I devoted to charitable purposes; and some, who have large families, how many poor children I maintained" -Henry David Thoreau
"The wildest sound ever heard makes the woods ring far and wide." -Henry David Thoreau
"In wildness is preservation of the world." -Henry David Thoreau
"A written word is the choicest of relics. It is something at once more intimate with us and more universal than any other work of art. It is the work of art nearest to life itself. It may be translated into every language, and not only be read but actually breathed from all human lips;--not be represented on canvas or in marble only, but be carved out of the breath of life itself. The symbol of an ancient man's thought becomes a modern man's speech. Two thousand summers have imparted to the monuments of Grecian literature, as to her marbles, only a maturer golden and autumnal tint, for they have carried their own serene and celestial atmosphere into all lands to protect them against the corrosion of time. Books are the treasured wealth of the world and the fit inheritance of generations and nations. Books, the oldest and the best, stand naturally and rightfully on the shelves of every cottage. They have no cause of their own to plead, but while they enlighten and sustain the reader his common sense will not refuse them. Their authors are a natural and irresistible aristocracy in every society, and, more than kings or emperors, exert an influence on mankind." -Henry David Thoreau
"I found in myself, and still find, an instinct toward a higher, or, as it is named, spiritual life, as do most men, and another toward a primitive rank and savage one, and I reverence them both. I love the wild not less than the good. As long as possible live free and uncommitted." -Henry David Thoreau
"Action from principle, the perception and the performance of right, changes things and relations; it is essentially revolutionary, and does not consist wholly with anything which was." -Henry David Thoreau
"God is alone,--but the devil...he is legion." -Henry David Thoreau
"What is called eloquence in the forum is commonly found to be rhetoric in the study." -Henry David Thoreau
"Nous aimons l'éloquence pour l'éloquence et non pour la vérité qu'elle peut énoncer ou l'héroïsme qu'elle peut inspirer." -Henry David Thoreau
"The luxury of one class is counterbalanced by the indigence of another." -Henry David Thoreau
"The free men of New England have only to refrain from purchasing and reading these sheets, have only to withhold their cents, to kill a score of them at once." -Henry David Thoreau
"Même lorsque vous votez pour la justice, vous ne faites rien pour elle. Vous ne faites qu'exprimer faiblement aux hommes votre désir de la voir l'emporter. Le sage ne doit pas laisser la justice à la merci du hasard ni souhaiter qu'elle l'emporte grâce au pouvoir de la majorité.P.13" -Henry David Thoreau
"I found in myself, and still find, an instinct toward a higher, or, as it is named, spiritual life, as do most men, and another toward a primitive rank and savage one, and I reverence them both. I love the wild not less than the good. The wildness and adventure that are in fishing still recommended it to me. I like sometimes to take rank hold on life and spend my day more as the animals do." -Henry David Thoreau
"To oversee all the details yourself in person; to be at once pilot and captain, and owner and underwriter; to buy and sell and keep the accounts; to read every letter received, and write or read every letter sent; to superintend the discharge of imports night and day; to be upon many parts of the coast almost at the same time--often the richest freight will be discharged upon a Jersey shore;--to be your own telegraph, unweariedly sweeping the horizon, speaking all passing vessels bound coastwise; to keep up a steady despatch of commodities, for the supply of such a distant and exorbitant market; to keep yourself informed of the state of the markets, prospects of war and peace everywhere, and anticipate the tendencies of trade and civilization--taking advantage of the results of all exploring expeditions, using new passages and all improvements in navigation;--charts to be studied, the position of reefs and new lights and buoys to be ascertained, and ever, and ever, the logarithmic tables to be corrected, for by the error of some calculator the vessel often splits upon a rock that should have reached a friendly pier--there is the untold fate of La Prouse;--universal science to be kept pace with, studying the lives of all great discoverers and navigators, great adventurers and merchants, from Hanno and the Phoenicians down to our day; in fine, account of stock to be taken from time to time, to know how you stand." -Henry David Thoreau
"instant. Confucius said, 'To know that we know what we know, and that we do not know what we do not know, that is true knowledge." -Henry David Thoreau
"None of the brute creation requires more than Food and Shelter" -Henry David Thoreau
"The summer, in some climates, makes possible to man a sort of Elysian life. Fuel, except to cook his Food, is then unnecessary; the sun is his fire, and many of the fruits are sufficiently cooked by its rays; while Food generally is more various, and more easily obtained, and Clothing and Shelter are wholly or half unnecessary. At the present day, and in this country, as I find by my own experience, a few implements, a knife, an axe, a spade, a wheelbarrow, etc., and for the studious, lamplight, stationery, and access to a few books, rank next to necessaries, and can all be obtained at a trifling cost. Yet some, not wise, go to the other side of the globe, to barbarous and unhealthy regions, and devote themselves to trade for ten or twenty years, in order that they may live--that is, keep comfortably warm--and die in New England at last." -Henry David Thoreau
"Noi non veneriamo né le Grazie né le Parche, ma la Moda." -Henry David Thoreau
"I find it wholesome to be alone the greater part of the time. To be in company, even with the best, is soon wearisome and dissipating. I love to be alone. I never found the companion that was so companionable as solitude. We are for the most part more lonely when we go abroad among men than when we stay in our chambers. A" -Henry David Thoreau
"It is hard to provide and cook so simple and clean a diet as will not offend the imagination; but this, I think, is to be fed when we feed the body; they should both sit down at the same table. Yet perhaps this may be done. The fruits eaten temperately need not make us ashamed of our appetites, nor interrupt the worthiest pursuits. But put an extra condiment on your dish, and it will poison you." -Henry David Thoreau
"For what are the classics but the noblest recorded thoughts of man? They are the only oracles which are not decayed, and there are such answers to the most modern inquiry in them as Delphi and Dodona never gave. We might as well omit to study Nature because she is old." -Henry David Thoreau
"I wanted to live deep and suck out all the marrow of life, to live so sturdily and Spartan-like as to put to rout all that was not life, to cut a broad swath and shave close, to drive life into a corner, and reduce it to its lowest terms, and, if it proved to be mean, why then to get the whole and genuine meanness of it, and publish its meanness to the world; or if it were sublime, to know it by experience, and be able to give a true account of it in my next excursion." -Henry David Thoreau
"That virtue we appreciate is as much ours as another's. We see so much only as we possess." -Henry David Thoreau
"As with our colleges, so with a hundred 'modern improvements'; there is an illusion about them; there is not always a positive advance. The devil goes on exacting compound interest to the last for his early share and numerous succeeding investments in them. Our inventions are wont to be pretty toys, which distract our attention from serious things. They are but improved means to an unimproved end, an end which it was already but too easy to arrive at; as railroads lead to Boston or New York." -Henry David Thoreau
"...books are the society we keep... Read the best books first, or you may not have a chance to read them at all." -Henry David Thoreau
"The heroic books, even if printed in the character of our mother tongue, will always be in a language dead to degenerate times; and we must laboriously seek the meaning of each word and line, conjecturing a larger sense than common use permits out of what wisdom and valor and generosity we have. The modern cheap and fertile press, with all its translations, has done little to bring us nearer to the heroic writers of antiquity. They seem as solitary, and the letter in which they are printed as rare and curious, as ever. It is worth the expense of youthful days and costly hours, if you learn only some words of an ancient language, which are raised out of the trivialness of the street, to be perpetual suggestions and provocations. It is not in vain that the farmer remembers and repeats the few Latin words which he has heard. Men sometimes speak as if the study of the classics would at length make way for more modern and practical studies; but the adventurous student will always study classics, in whatever language they may be written and however ancient they may be. For what are the classics but the noblest recorded thoughts of man? They are the only oracles which are not decayed, and there are such answers to the most modern inquiry in them as Delphi and Dodona never gave. We might as well omit to study Nature because she is old." -Henry David Thoreau
"What are these pines & these birds about? What is this pond a-doing? I must know a little more." -Henry David Thoreau
"This spending of the best part of one's life earning money in order to enjoy a questionable liberty during the least valuable part of it reminds me of the Englishman who went to India to make a fortune first, in order that he might return to England and live the life of a poet. He should have gone up garret at once. 'What!" -Henry David Thoreau
"A penny to your thoughts, or a thousand pounds. When sometimes I am reminded that the mechanics and shopkeepers live of their stores not best all the forenoon, but all of the afternoon too, sitting with crossed legs, so lots of them--as though the legs had been made to take a seat upon, and now not to face or walk upon--I suppose that they deserve some credit for not having all committed suicide long ago." -Henry David Thoreau
"Our life is frittered away by detail. Simplify, simplify, simplify! I say, let your affairs be as two or three, and not a hundred or a thousand; instead of a million count half a dozen, and keep your accounts on your thumb-nail." -Henry David Thoreau
"There was a shepherd that did live, And held his thoughts as high As were the mounts whereon his flocks Did hourly feed him by." -Henry David Thoreau
"The voices of school children sound like spring." -Henry David Thoreau
"I told such a man the other day that I had got a Canada lynx here in Concord, and his instant question was, 'Have you got the reward for him?' What reward? Why, the ten dollars which the State offers. As long as I saw him he neither said nor thought anything about the lynx, but only about this reward. 'Yes,' said he, 'this State offers ten dollars reward.' You might have inferred that ten dollars was something rarer in his neighborhood than a lynx even, and he was anxious to see it on that account. I have thought that a lynx was a bright-eyed, four-legged, furry beast of the cat kind, very current, indeed, though its natural gait is by leaps. But he knew it to be a draught drawn by the cashier of the wildcat bank on the State treasury, payable at sight. Then I reflected that the first money was of leather, or a whole creature (whence pecunia, from pecus, a herd), and, since leather was at first furry, I easily understood the connection between a lynx and ten dollars, and found that all money was traceable right back to the original wildcat bank." -Henry David Thoreau
"Go Confidently in the direction of your dreams! Live the Life you've Imagined." -Henry David Thoreau
"Books are the treasured wealth of the world and the fit inheritance of generations and nations. Books, the oldest and the best, stand naturally and rightfully on the shelves of every cottage. They have no cause of their own to plead, but while they enlighten and sustain the reader his common sense will not refuse them. Their authors are a natural and irresistible aristocracy in every society, and more than kings or emperors, exert an influence on mankind." -Henry David Thoreau
"sinecure" -Henry David Thoreau
"It should not be by their architecture, but why not even by their power of abstract thought, that nations should seek to commemorate themselves? How much more admirable the Bhagvat-Geeta than all the ruins of the East! Towers and temples are the luxury of princes. A simple and independent mind does not toil at the bidding of any prince. Genius is not a retainer to any emperor, nor is its material silver, or gold, or marble, except to a trifling extent." -Henry David Thoreau
"I am convinced, both by faith and experience, that to maintain one's self on this earth is not a hardship but a pastime, if we will live simply and wisely; as the pursuits of the simpler nations are still the sports of the more artificial." -Henry David Thoreau
"This world is but a canvas to our imagination." -Henry David Thoreau
"Fui a los bosques porque deseaba vivir deliberadamente; para enfrentar sólo los hechos esenciales de la vida, y ver si podía aprender lo que ella tenía que enseñarme; Quise vivir profundamente y desechar todo aquello que no fuera vida, no fuese a descubrir, al llegar la hora de mi muerte, que no había vivido." -Henry David Thoreau
"If we have had the seven-years' itch, we have not seen the seventeen-year locust yet in Concord. We are acquainted with a mere pellicle of the globe on which we live. Most have not delved six feet beneath the surface, nor leaped as many above it. We know not where we are. Beside, we are sound asleep nearly half our time. Yet we esteem ourselves wise, and have an established order on the surface. Truly, we are deep thinkers, we are ambitious spirits." -Henry David Thoreau
"I occasionally observed that he was thinking for himself and expressing his own opinion - a phenomenon so rare that I would walk any day ten miles to observe it." -Henry David Thoreau
"I feel as if my life had grown more outward when I can express it." -Henry David Thoreau
"I find it wholesome to be alone the greater part of the time. To be in company, even with the best, is soon wearisome and dissipating. I love to be alone. I never found the companion that was so companionable as solitude. We are for the most part more lonely when we go abroad among men than when we stay in our chambers. A man thinking or working is always alone, let him be where he will. Solitude is not measured by the miles of space that intervene between a man and his fellows. The really diligent student in one of the crowded hives of Cambridge College is as solitary as a dervish in the desert. The farmer can work alone in the field or the woods all day, hoeing or chopping, and not feel lonesome, because he is employed; but when he comes home at night he cannot sit down in a room alone, at the mercy of his thoughts, but must be where he can 'see the folks,' and recreate, and, as he thinks, remunerate himself for his day's solitude; and hence he wonders how the student can sit alone in the house all night and most of the day without ennui and 'the blues'; but he does not realize that the student, though in the house, is still at work in his field, and chopping in his woods, as the farmer in his, and in turn seeks the same recreation and society that the latter does, though it may be a more condensed form of it." -Henry David Thoreau
"...is not Nature, rightly read, that of which she is commonly taken to be the symbol merely?" -Henry David Thoreau
"I went to the woods because I wished to live deliberately, to front only the essential facts of life, and see if I could not learn what it had to teach, and not, when I came to die, discover that I had not lived. I did not wish to live what was not life, living is so dear; nor did I wish to practise resignation, unless it was quite necessary. I wanted to live deep and suck out all the marrow of life, to live so sturdily and Spartan-like as to put to rout all that was not life, to cut a broad swath and shave close, to drive life into a corner, and reduce it to its lowest terms, and, if it proved to be mean, why then to get the whole and genuine meanness of it, and publish its meanness to the world; or if it were sublime, to know it by experience," -Henry David Thoreau
"Il est plus désirable de cultiver le respect du bien que le respect de la loi. Nous devons être d'abord des hommes et ensuite seulement des sujets" -Henry David Thoreau
"Ať je tvůj život sebemizernější, utkej se s ním, prožívej ho." -Henry David Thoreau
"A minority is powerless while it conforms to the majority; it is not even a minority then; but it is irresistible when it clogs by its whole weight. If the alternative is to keep all just men in prison, or give up war and slavery, the State will not hesitate which to choose. If a thousand men were not to pay their tax-bills this year, that would not be a violent and bloody measure, as it would be to pay them, and enable the State to commit violence and shed innocent blood." -Henry David Thoreau
"However mean your life is, meet it and live it; do not shun it and call it hard names. It is not so bad as you are. It looks poorest when you are richest. The fault-finder will find faults even in paradise. Love your life, poor as it is. You may perhaps have some pleasant, thrilling, glorious hours, even in a poorhouse. The setting sun is reflected from the windows of the almshouse as brightly as from the rich man's abode; the snow melts before its door as early in the spring. I do not see but a quiet mind may live as contentedly there, and have as cheering thoughts, as in a palace. The town's poor seem to me often to live the most independent lives of any. Maybe they are simply great enough to receive without misgiving. Most think that they are above being supported by the town; but it oftener happens that they are not above supporting themselves by dishonest means, which should be more disreputable. Cultivate poverty like a garden herb, like sage. Do not trouble yourself much to get new things, whether clothes or friends. Turn the old; return to them. Things do not change; we change. Sell your clothes and keep your thoughts. God will see that you do not want society. If I were confined to a corner of a garret all my days, like a spider, the world would be just as large to me while I had my thoughts about me." -Henry David Thoreau
"One day, when my axe had come off and I had cut a green hickory for a wedge, driving it with a stone, and had placed the whole to soak in a pond-hole in order to swell the wood, I saw a striped snake run into the water, and he lay on the bottom, apparently without inconvenience, as long as I stayed there, or more than a quarter of an hour; perhaps because he had not yet fairly come out of the torpid state. It appeared to me that for a like reason men remain in their present low and primitive condition; but if they should feel the influence of the spring of springs arousing them, they would of necessity rise to a higher and more ethereal life." -Henry David Thoreau
"There is just as much beauty visible to us in the landscape as we are prepared to appreciate-- not a grain more" -Henry David Thoreau
"I wanted to live deep and suck out all the marrow of life, to live so sturdily and Spartan-like as to put to rout all that was not life, to cut a broad swath and shave close, to drive life into a corner, and reduce it to its lowest terms." -Henry David Thoreau
"None can be an impartial or wise observer of human life but from the vantage ground of what we should call voluntary poverty.... To be a philosopher is not mere to have subtle thoughts, nor even to found a school, but so to love wisdom as to live according to its dictates, a life of simplicity, independence, magnanimity, and trust. It is to solve some of the problems of life, not only theoretically, but practically." -Henry David Thoreau
"The soul grows by subtraction, not addition." -Henry David Thoreau
"do not say that John or Jonathan will realize all this; but such is the character of that morrow which mere lapse of time can never make to dawn. The light which puts out our eyes is darkness to us. Only that day dawns to which we are awake. There is more day to dawn. The sun is but a morning star. ON THE DUTY OF CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE I heartily accept the motto,--'That government is best which governs least'; and I should like to see it acted up to more rapidly and systematically. Carried" -Henry David Thoreau
"This spending of the best part of one's life earning money in order to enjoy a questionable liberty during the least valuable part of it reminds me of the Englishman who went to India to make a fortune first, in order that he might return to England and live the life of a poet. He should have gone up garret at once." -Henry David Thoreau
"[Books] in which each thought is of unusual daring; such as an idle man cannot read, and a timid one would not be entertained by, which even make us dangerous to existing institutions⁠--such call I good books." -Henry David Thoreau
"The stars are the jewels of the night, and perchance surpass anything which day has to show." -Henry David Thoreau
"My life more civil is and freeThan any civil polityYe princes, keep your realmsAnd circumscribed powerNot wide as are my dreamsNor rich as is this hour" -Henry David Thoreau
"Go confidently in the direction of your dreams. Live the life you imagined." -Henry David Thoreau
"In the savage state every family owns a shelter as good as the best, and sufficient for its coarser and simpler wants; but I think that I speak within bounds when I say that, though the birds of the air have their nests, and the foxes their holes, and the savages their wigwams, in modern civilized society not more than one half the families own a shelter. In the large towns and cities, where civilization especially prevails, the number of those who own a shelter is a very small fraction of the whole. The rest pay an annual tax for this outside garment of all, become indispensable summer and winter, which would buy a village of Indian wigwams, but now helps to keep them poor as long as they live." -Henry David Thoreau
"I am resolved that I will not through humility become the devil's attorney." -Henry David Thoreau
"The Universe is wider than our views of it" -Henry David Thoreau
"our houses are such unwieldy property that we are often imprisoned rather than housed in them; and the bad neighborhood to be avoided is our own scurvy selves." -Henry David Thoreau
"Two sturdy oaks I mean, which side by side, Withstand the winter's storm, And spite of wind and tide, Grow up the meadow's pride, For both are strong   Above they barely touch, but undermined Down to their deepest source, Admiring you shall find Their roots are intertwined Insep'rably." -Henry David Thoreau
"That government is best which governs least;' and I should like to see it acted up to more rapidly and systematically. Carried out, it finally amounts to this, which also I believe--'That government is best which governs not at all;" -Henry David Thoreau
"After a night's sleep the news is as indispensable as the breakfast. 'Pray tell me any thing new that has happened to a man any where on this globe,' -- and he reads it over his coffee and rolls, that a man has had his eyes gouged out this morning on the Wichito River; never dreaming the while that he lives in the dark unfathomed mammoth cave of this world, and has but the rudiment of an eye himself." -Henry David Thoreau
"Merely to come into the world the heir of a fortune is not to be born, but to be still-born, rather." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is only when we forget all our learning that we begin to know. You must be aware that no thing is what you have taken it to be. You have got to be in a different state from the common." -Henry David Thoreau
"Por intensa que sea mi experiencia, soy consciente de la presencia y de la crítica de una parte de mi ser, la cual, digámoslo así, no es parte de mí, sino un espectador que no comparte la experiencia, pero toma nota de ella, y que no es más yo que tú." -Henry David Thoreau
"Is not the sea-brine, is not shipwreck, bitter enough to make the cup of life go down here? Yet such, to a great extent, is our boasted commerce; and there are those who style themselves statesmen and philosophers who are so blind as to think that progress and civilization depend on precisely this kind of interchange and activity- the activity of flies about a molasses- hogshead. Very well, observes one, if men were oysters. And very well, answer I, if men were mosquitoes." -Henry David Thoreau
"Sometimes I would rather get a transient glimpse or side view of a thing than stand fronting to it… The object I caught a glimpse of as I went by haunts my thoughts a long time, is infinitely suggestive, and I do not care to front it and scrutinize it, for I know that the thing that really concerns me is not there, but in my relation to that…" -Henry David Thoreau
"If you have built castles in the air, your work need not be lost; that is where they should be. Now put the foundations under them" -Henry David Thoreau
"Not till we are completely lost or turned around, do we begin to find ourselves." -Henry David Thoreau
"I went to the woods because I wished to live deliberately, to front only the essential facts of life, and see if I could not learn what it had to teach, and not," -Henry David Thoreau
"Some travelers tell us that an Indian had no name given him at first, but earned it, and his name was his fame; and among some tribes he acquired a new name with every new exploit." -Henry David Thoreau
"We are made to exaggerate the importance of what work we do; and yet how much is not done by us." -Henry David Thoreau
"I had three pieces of limestone on my desk, but I was terrified to find that they required to be dusted daily, when the furniture of my mind was all undusted still, and I threw them out the window in disgust. How, then, could I have a furnished house? I would rather sit in the open air, for no dust gathers on the grass, unless where man has broken ground." -Henry David Thoreau
"In literature it is only the wild that attracts us. Dullness is only another name for tameness. It is the untamed, uncivilized, free, and wild thinking in Hamlet, in the Iliad, and in all the scriptures and mythologies that delights us, -- not learned in the schools, not refined and polished by art. A truly good book is something as wildly natural and primitive, mysterious and marvellous, ambrosial and fertile, as a fungus or a lichen." -Henry David Thoreau
"Perchance, when, in the course of ages, American liberty has become a fiction of the past--as it is to some extent a fiction of the present--the poets of the world will be inspired by American mythology." -Henry David Thoreau
"This small lake was of most value as a neighbor in the intervals of a gentle rain-storm in August, when, both air and water being perfectly still, but the sky overcast, mid-afternoon had all the serenity of evening, and the wood thrush sang around, and was heard from shore to shore. A lake like this is never smoother than at such a time; and the clear portion of the air above it being, shallow and darkened by clouds, the water, full of light and reflections, becomes a lower heaven itself so much the more important. From a hilltop near by, where the wood had been recently cut off, there was a pleasing vista southward across the pond, through a wide indentation in the hills which form the shore there, where their opposite sides sloping toward each other suggested a stream flowing out in that direction through a wooded valley, but stream there was none. That way I looked between and over the near green hills to some distant and higher ones in the horizon, tinged with blue. Indeed, by standing on tiptoe I could catch a glimpse of some of the peaks of the still bluer and more distant mountain ranges in the northwest, those true-blue coins from heaven's own mint, and also of some portion of the village. But in other directions, even from this point, I could not see over or beyond the woods which surrounded me." -Henry David Thoreau
"I rejoice that there are owls." -Henry David Thoreau
"I doubted if the near neighborhood of man was not essential to a serene and healthy life." -Henry David Thoreau
"In April the pigeons were seen again flying express in small flocks, and in due time I heard the martins twittering over my clearing, though it had not seemed that the township contained so many that it could afford me any, and I fancied that they were peculiarly of the ancient race that dwelt in hollow trees ere white men came. In almost all climes the tortoise and the frog are among the precursors and heralds of this season, and birds fly with song and glancing plumage, and plants spring and bloom, and winds blow, to correct this slight oscillation of the poles and preserve the equilibrium of nature." -Henry David Thoreau
"I HEARTILY ACCEPT the motto,--'That government is best which governs least;' and I should like to see it acted up to more rapidly and systematically." -Henry David Thoreau
"The greater part of what my neighbors call good I believe in my soul to be bad, and if I repent of anything, it is very likely to be my good behavior." -Henry David Thoreau
"The greater part of what my neighbors call good I believe in my soul to be bad, and if I repent of anything, it is very likely to be my good behavior. What demon possessed me that I behaved so well? You" -Henry David Thoreau
"Perhaps we should never procure a new suit, however ragged or dirty the old, until we have so conducted, so enterprised or sailed in some way, that we feel like new men in the old, and that to retain it would be like keeping new wine in old bottles. Our moulting season, like that of the fowls, must be a crisis in our lives." -Henry David Thoreau
"Dù sống hay chết, chúng ta chỉ khao khát cái thật. Nếu chúng ta đang thật sự chết, chúng ta hãy nghe tiếng nấc hấp hối trong cổ họng, và cảm thấy lạnh ở tứ chi; nếu chúng ta đang sống, chúng ta hãy đi làm công việc của mình." -Henry David Thoreau
"Seit vielen Jahren haben sich nunmehr die Menschen in den Wald begeben, um Brenn- und Baustoffe zu beschaffen. Der Neuengländer und der Neuholländer, der Pariser und der Kelte, der Bauer und Robin Hood, Goody Blake und Harry Gill, in den meisten Teilen der Welt der Fürst und der Landmann, der Gelehrte und der Wilde, alle brauchen gleichermaßen ein paar Zweiglein aus dem Wald, um sich zu wärmen und ihr Essen zu kochen. Auch ich kam nicht ohne aus." -Henry David Thoreau
"The Anglo-American can indeed cut down and grub up all this waving forest, and make a stump speech on its ruins, but he cannot converse with the spirit of the tree he fells, he cannot read the poetry and mythology which retire as he advances. He ignorantly erases mythological" -Henry David Thoreau
"I do not mean to prescribe rules to strong and valiant natures, who will mind their own affairs whether in heaven or hell, and perchance build more magnificently and spend more lavishly than the richest, without ever impoverishing themselves, not knowing how they live, - if, indeed, there are any such, as has been dreamed; nor to those who find their encouragement and inspiration in precisely the present condition of things, and cherish it with the fondness and enthusiasm of lovers, -and, to some extent, I reckon myself in this number; I do not speak to those who are well employed, in whatever circumstances, and they know whether they are well employed or not;-but mainly to the mass of men who are discontented, and idly complaining of the hardness of their lot or of the times, when they might improve them." -Henry David Thoreau
"It often happens that a human is more humanely related to a cat or dog than to any human being." -Henry David Thoreau
"The oldest Egyptian or Hindu philosopher raised a corner of the veil from the statue of divinity; and still the trembling robe remains raised, and I gaze upon as fresh a glory as he did, since it was I in him that was then so bold, and it is he in me that reviews the vision. No dust has settled on that robe; no time has elapsed since that divinity was revealed." -Henry David Thoreau
"I think that I cannot preserve my health and spirits, unless I spend four hours a day at least, -- and it is commonly more than that, -- sauntering through the woods and over the hills and fields, absolutely free from all worldly engagements. You may safely say, A penny for your thoughts, or a thousand pounds. When sometimes I am reminded that the mechanics and shopkeepers stay in their shops not only all the forenoon, but all the afternoon too, sitting with crossed legs, so many of them, -- as if the legs were made to sit upon, and not to stand or walk upon, -- I think that they deserve some credit for not having all committed suicide long ago." -Henry David Thoreau
"A lake is the landscape's most beautiful and expressive feature. It is earth's eye; looking into which the beholder measures the depth of his own nature. The fluviatile trees next the shore are the slender eyelashes which fringe it, and the wooded hills and cliffs around are its overhanging brows." -Henry David Thoreau
"One farmer says to me, 'You cannot live on vegetable food solely, for it furnishes nothing to make bones with'; and so he religiously devotes a part of his day to supplying his system with the raw material of bones; walking all the while he talks behind his oxen, which, with vegetable-made bones, jerk him and his lumbering plow along in spite of every obstacle." -Henry David Thoreau
"I learned this, at least, by my experiment; that if one advances confidently in the direction of his dreams, and endeavors to live the life which he has imagined, he will meet with a success unexpected in common hours. He will put some things behind, will pass an invisible boundary; new, universal, and more liberal laws will begin to establish themselves around and within him; or the old laws be expanded, and interpreted in his favor in a more liberal sense, and he will live with the license of a higher order of beings. In proportion as he simplifies his life, the laws of the universe will appear less complex, and solitude will not be solitude, nor poverty poverty, nor weakness weakness. If you have built castles in the air, your work need not be lost; that is where they should be. Now put the foundations under them." -Henry David Thoreau
"orator yields to the inspiration of a transient occasion, and speaks to the mob before him, to those who can hear him; but the writer, whose more equable life is his occasion, and who would be distracted by the event and the crowd which inspire the orator, speaks to the intellect and health of mankind, to all in any age who can understand him." -Henry David Thoreau
"A written word is the choicest of relics." -Henry David Thoreau
"After a still winter night I awoke with the impression that some question had been put to me, which I had been endeavoring in vain to answer in my sleep, as what-how-when-where? But there was dawning Nature, in whom all creatures live, looking in at my broad windows with serene and satisfied face. I awoke to an answered question, to Nature and daylight. The snow lying deep on the earth dotted with young pines, and the very slope of the hill on which my house is places, seemed to say Forward!" -Henry David Thoreau
"Men esteem truth remote, in the outskirts of the system, behind the farthest star, before Adam and after the last man. In eternity there is indeed something true and sublime. But all these times and places and occasions are now and here. God himself culminates in the present moment, and will never be more divine in the lapse of all the ages." -Henry David Thoreau
"It would be better if there were but one inhabitant to a square mile, as where I live. The value of a man is not in his skin, that we should touch him." -Henry David Thoreau
"The first sparrow of spring! The year beginning with younger hope than ever! The faint silvery warblings heard over the partially bare and moist fields from the bluebird, the song sparrow, and the red-wing, as if the last flakes of winter tinkled as they fell! What at such a time are histories, chronologies, traditions, and all written revelations? The brooks sing carols and glees to the spring. The marsh hawk, sailing low over the meadow, is already seeking the first slimy life that awakes. The sinking sound of melting snow is heard in all dells, and the ice dissolves apace in the ponds." -Henry David Thoreau
"Above all, we cannot afford not to live in the present. He is blessed over all mortals who loses no moment of the passing life remembering the past. Unless our philosophy hears the cock crow in every barnyard within our horizon, it is belated... There is something suggested by it that is a newer testament,- the gospel according to this moment. He has not fallen astern; he has gotten up early and kept up early, and to be where he is is to be in season, in the foremost rank of time." -Henry David Thoreau
"I find by my own experience, a few implements, a knife, an axe, a spade, a wheelbarrow, etc., and for the studious, lamplight, stationery, and access to a few books, rank next to necessaries, and can all be obtained at a trifling cost." -Henry David Thoreau
"There is nowhere recorded a simple and irrepressible satisfaction with the gift of life" -Henry David Thoreau
"The greater part of what my neighbors call good I believe in my soul to be bad, and if I repent of anything, it is very likely to be my good behavior. What demon possessed me that I behaved so well? You may say the wisest thing you can, old man--you who have lived seventy years, not without honor of a kind--I hear an irresistible voice which invites me away from all that. One generation abandons the enterprises of another like stranded vessels." -Henry David Thoreau
"Un uomo saggio non lascia il giusto alla mercé del caso né desidera che esso si affermi attraverso il potere della maggioranza." -Henry David Thoreau
"mile from any neighbor, in a house which I had built myself, on the shore of Walden Pond, in Concord, Massachusetts, and earned my living by the labor of my hands only. I lived" -Henry David Thoreau
"If you would get exercise, go in search of the springs of life. Think of a man's swinging dumbbells for his health, when those springs are bubbling up in far-off pastures unsought by him!" -Henry David Thoreau
"One large bundle held their all--bed, coffee-mill, looking-glass, hens--all but the cat; she took to the woods and became a wild cat, and, as I learned afterward, trod in a trap set for woodchucks, and so became a dead cat at last." -Henry David Thoreau
"Seveda pa nam ne bo nič koristilo, da svoje korake usmerimo v gozdove, če nas ne bodo tudi zares ponesli tja. Vznemirim se, kadar se mi zgodi, da s svojim telesom potujem že kak kilometer skozi gozd, ne da bi tja prispel tudi v duhu." -Henry David Thoreau
"Quienes no conocen otras fuentes de verdad más puras, quienes no han seguido su curso hasta sus orígenes, están, y con razón, del lado de la Biblia y la Constitución y beben de ellas con reverencia y humildad. Pero aquellos que van más allá y buscan el origen del agua que gotea sobre el lago o la charca, se ciñen los lomos una vez más y siguen su peregrinación en busca del manantial." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is time that we had uncommon schools, that we did not leave off our education when we begin to be men and women. It is time that villages were universities, and their elder inhabitants the fellows of universities, with leisure -- if they are, indeed, so well off -- to pursue liberal studies the rest of their lives." -Henry David Thoreau
"Some are dining in our ears that we Americans, and moderns generally, are intellectual dwarfs compared with the ancients, or even the Elizabethan men. But what is that to the purpose? A living dog is better than a dead lion. Shall a man go and hang himself because he belongs to the race of pygmies, and no be the biggest pygmy he can be? Let everyone mind his own business, and endeavor to be what he was made." -Henry David Thoreau
"him? His highest duty to fodder and water his horses! What is his destiny to him compared with the shipping interests? Does not he drive for Squire Make-a-stir? How godlike, how immortal, is he? See how he cowers and sneaks, how vaguely all the day he fears, not being immortal nor divine, but the slave and prisoner of his own opinion of himself, a fame won by his own deeds. Public opinion is a weak tyrant compared with our own private opinion. What a man thinks of himself, that it is which determines, or rather indicates, his fate. Self-emancipation even in the West Indian provinces of the fancy and imagination--what Wilberforce" -Henry David Thoreau
"This is the only way, we say; but there are as many ways as there can be drawn radii from one center." -Henry David Thoreau
"Les gens qui, tout en désapprouvant le caractère et les mesures d'un gouvernement, lui concèdent leur obéissance et leur appui sont sans conteste ses partisans les plus zélés et par là, fréquemment, l'obstacle le plus sérieux aux réformes." -Henry David Thoreau
"Simplify, simplify. Instead of three meals a day, if it be necessary eat but one; instead of a hundred dishes, five; and reduce other things in proportion." -Henry David Thoreau
"We do not ride on the railroad; it rides upon us. Did you ever think what those sleepers are that underlie the railroad? Each one is a man, an Irishman, or a Yankee man. The rails are laid on them, and they are covered with sand, and the cars run smoothly over them. They are sound sleepers, I assure you. And every few years a new lot is laid down and run over; so that, if some have the pleasure of riding on a rail, others have the misfortune to be ridden upon." -Henry David Thoreau
"I would have each one be very careful to find out and pursue his own way, and not his father's or his mother's or his neighbor's instead. The youth may build or plant or sail, only let him not be hindered from doing that which he tells me he would like to do." -Henry David Thoreau
"if one were to judge these men wholly by the effects of their actions, and not partly by their intentions, they would deserve to be classed and punished with those mischievous persons who put obstructions on the railroads." -Henry David Thoreau
"If one advances confidently in the direction of his dreams, he will meet with success unexpected in common hours." -Henry David Thoreau
"Where is the literature which gives expression to Nature? He would be a poet who could impress the winds and streams into his service, to speak for him; who nailed words to their primitive senses, as farmers drive down stakes in the spring, which the frost has heaved; who derived his words as often as he used them--transplanted them to his page with earth adhering to their roots; whose words were so true and fresh and natural that they would appear to expand like the buds at the approach of spring, though they lay half smothered between two musty leaves in a library,--aye, to bloom and bear fruit there, after their kind, annually, for the faithful reader, in sympathy with surrounding Nature." -Henry David Thoreau
"My love must be as free As is the eagle's 'wing. Hovering o'er land and sea And everything. I must not dim my eye In thy saloon, I must not leave my sky And nightly moon. 26 Be not the fowler's net 'Which stays my flight. And craftily i« set T' allure the sight. But the favoring gale That bears me on. And still doth fill my sail When thou art gone. I can not leave my sky For thy caprice. True love w^ould soar as high As heaven is. The eagle would not brook Her mate thus ^^on. Who trained his eye to look Beneath the sun. Nothing" -Henry David Thoreau
"A good book is the plectrum with which our else silent lyres are struck" -Henry David Thoreau
"Toda a nobreza logo começa a refinar os traços de um homem; toda mesquinharia ou sensualidade, a embrutecê-los" -Henry David Thoreau
"The incessant anxiety and strain of some is a well-nigh incurable form of disease." -Henry David Thoreau
"Society is commonly too cheap. We meet at very short intervals, not having had time to acquire any new value for each other." -Henry David Thoreau
"Para resumir, estou convencido, por e fé e experiência, que a automanutenção neste mundo não é um sofrimento mas um passatempo, se a pessoa viver de modo simples e sábio; tanto que as ocupações dos povos mais simples são os esportes dos mais sofisticados. Não é necessário que um homem ganhe a vida com o suor de seu rosto, a não ser que ele sue muito mais que eu" -Henry David Thoreau
"Por mais mesquinha que seja sua vida, aceite-a e viva-a; não se esquive a ela nem a trate com termos duros. Ela não é tão ruim quanto você" -Henry David Thoreau
"Though winter is represented in the almanac as an old man, facing the wind and sleet, and drawing his cloak about him, we rather think of him as a merry woodchopper, and warm-blooded youth, as blithe as summer." -Henry David Thoreau
"Time is but the stream I go a-fishing in. I drink at it; but while I drink I see the sandy bottom and detect how shallow it is. It's thin current slides away, but eternity remains." -Henry David Thoreau
"Para ser imparcial, los mejores hombres que conozco no están tranquilos, no son todo un mundo en sí mismos. En general, se preocupan de los modales y adulan y estudian las situaciones con más perspicacia que el resto. Seleccionamos el granito para los cimientos de nuestras casas y establos, construimos vallas de piedra, pero nosotros no nos asentamos sobre un entramado de verdad granítico, la más elemental roca primitiva. Nuestras vigas están podridas. ¿De qué pasta está hecho ese hombre que no se corresponde en nuestro pensamiento con la verdad más pura y sutil? A menudo acuso a mis mejores amigos de una inmensa frivolidad, porque mientras que hay buenos modales y cumplidos que no respetamos, no nos enseñamos unos a otros las lecciones de honradez y sinceridad que enseñan los animales, o las lecciones de estabilidad y solidez que proceden de las rocas. La culpa es, sin embargo, habitualmente mutua porque, por lo general, no nos exigimos más unos de otros." -Henry David Thoreau
"I would rather sit in the open air, for no dust gathers on the grass, unless where man has broken ground." -Henry David Thoreau
"Why should they begin digging their graves as soon as they are born?" -Henry David Thoreau
"Never look back unless ypu are planning to go that way." -Henry David Thoreau
"not to your hospitality, but to your hospitalality;" -Henry David Thoreau
"I was witness to events of a less peaceful character. One day when I went out to my wood-pile, or rather my pile of stumps, I observed two large ants, the one red, the other much larger, nearly half an inch long, and black, fiercely contending with one another. Having once got hold they never let go, but struggled and wrestled and rolled on the chips incessantly. Looking farther, I was surprised to find that the chips were covered with such combatants, that it was not a duellum, but a bellum, a war between two races of ants, the red always pitted against the black, and frequently two red ones to one black. The legions of these Myrmidons covered all the hills and vales in my wood-yard, and the ground was already strewn with the dead and dying, both red and black. It was the only battle which I have ever witnessed, the only battle-field I ever trod while the battle was raging; internecine war; the red republicans on the one hand, and the black imperialists on the other. On every side they were engaged in deadly combat, yet without any noise that I could hear, and human soldiers never fought so resolutely. I watched a couple that were fast locked in each other's embraces, in a little sunny valley amid the chips, now at noonday prepared to fight till the sun went down, or life went out. The smaller red champion had fastened himself like a vice to his adversary's front, and through all the tumblings on that field never for an instant ceased to gnaw at one of his feelers near the root, having already caused the other to go by the board; while the stronger black one dashed him from side to side, and, as I saw on looking nearer, had already divested him of several of his members. They fought with more pertinacity than bulldogs. Neither manifested the least disposition to retreat. It was evident that their battle-cry was 'Conquer or die.' In the meanwhile there came along a single red ant on the hillside of this valley, evidently full of excitement, who either had despatched his foe, or had not yet taken part in the battle; probably the latter, for he had lost none of his limbs; whose mother had charged him to return with his shield or upon it. Or perchance he was some Achilles, who had nourished his wrath apart, and had now come to avenge or rescue his Patroclus. He saw this unequal combat from afar--for the blacks were nearly twice the size of the red--he drew near with rapid pace till he stood on his guard within half an inch of the combatants; then, watching his opportunity, he sprang upon the black warrior, and commenced his operations near the root of his right fore leg, leaving the foe to select among his own members; and so there were three united for life, as if a new kind of attraction had been invented which put all other locks and cements to shame. I should not have wondered by this time to find that they had their respective musical bands stationed on some eminent chip, and playing their national airs the while, to excite the slow and cheer the dying combatants. I was myself excited somewhat even as if they had been men. The more you think of it, the less the difference. And certainly there is not the fight recorded in Concord history, at least, if in the history of America, that will bear a moment's comparison with this, whether for the numbers engaged in it, or for the patriotism and heroism displayed." -Henry David Thoreau
"This whole earth which we inhabit is but a point in space. How far apart, think you, dwell the two most distant inhabitants of yonder star, the breadth of whose disk cannot be appreciated by our instruments? Why should I feel lonely? Is not our planet in the Milky Way?" -Henry David Thoreau
"behold a marine, such a man as an American government can make, or such as it can make a man with its black arts, a mere shadow and reminiscence of humanity, a man laid out alive and standing, and already, as one may say, buried under arms with funeral accompaniments," -Henry David Thoreau
"The finest qualities of our nature, like the bloom on fruits, can be preserved only by the most delicate handling. Yet we do not treat ourselves nor one another thus tenderly.   Some" -Henry David Thoreau
"Though I do not believe that a plant will spring up where no seed has been I have great faith in a seed" -Henry David Thoreau
"The shore is irregular enough not to be monotonous. I have in my mind's eye the western, indented with deep bays, the bolder northern, and the beautifully scalloped southern shore, where successive capes overlap each other and suggest unexplored coves between. The forest has never so good a setting, nor is so distinctly beautiful, as when seen from the middle of a small lake amid hills which rise from the water's edge; for the water in which it is reflected not only makes the best foreground in such a case, but, with its winding shore, the most natural and agreeable boundary to it. There is no rawness nor imperfection in its edge there, as where the axe has cleared a part, or a cultivated field abuts on it. The trees have ample room to expand on the water side, and each sends forth its most vigorous branch in that direction. There Nature has woven a natural selvage, and the eye rises by just gradations from the low shrubs of the shore to the highest trees. There are few traces of man's hand to be seen. The water laves the shore as it did a thousand years ago." -Henry David Thoreau
"I need thy hate as much as thy love." -Henry David Thoreau
"Simplicity, simplicity, simplicity! I say, let your affairs be as two or three, and not a hundred or a thousand; instead of a million count half a dozen, and keep your accounts on your thumb-nail. In the midst of this chopping sea of civilized life, such are the clouds and storms and quicksands and thousand-and-one items to be allowed for, that a man has to live, if he would not founder and go to the bottom and not make his port at all, by dead reckoning, and he must be a great calculator indeed who succeeds. Simplify, simplify. Instead of three meals a day, if it be necessary eat but one; instead of a hundred dishes, five; and reduce other things in proportion. Our life is like a German Confederacy, made up of petty states, with its boundary forever fluctuating, so that even a German cannot tell you how it is bounded at any moment. The nation itself, with all its so-called internal improvements, which, by the way are all external and superficial, is just such an unwieldy and overgrown establishment, cluttered with furniture and tripped up by its own traps, ruined by luxury and heedless expense, by want of calculation and a worthy aim, as the million households in the land; and the only cure for it, as for them, is in a rigid economy, a stern and more than Spartan simplicity of life and elevation of purpose. It lives too fast. Men think that it is essential that the Nation have commerce, and export ice, and talk through a telegraph, and ride thirty miles an hour, without a doubt, whether they do or not; but whether we should live like baboons or like men, is a little uncertain. If we do not get out sleepers, and forge rails, and devote days and nights to the work, but go to tinkering upon our lives to improve them, who will build railroads? And if railroads are not built, how shall we get to heaven in season? But if we stay at home and mind our business, who will want railroads? We do not ride on the railroad; it rides upon us. Did you ever think what those sleepers are that underlie the railroad? Each one is a man, an Irishman, or a Yankee man." -Henry David Thoreau
"Simplicity, simplicity, simplicity! I say, let your affairs be as two or three, and not a hundred or a thousand; instead of a million count half a dozen, and keep your accounts on your thumb nail" -Henry David Thoreau
"None is so poor that he need sit on a pumpkin." -Henry David Thoreau
"Who shall say what prospect life offers to another? Could a greater miracle take place than for us to look through each other's eyes for an instant?" -Henry David Thoreau
"La inmensa mayoría son hombres de sociedad. Viven en la superficie, les interesa lo transitorio y lo breve. Son como madera de deriva en al riada. Sólo piden las novedades: la espuma y la cochambre del mar eterno." -Henry David Thoreau
"Do empenho vem a sabedoria e a pureza; da preguiça a ignorância e a sensualidade" -Henry David Thoreau
"think that we may safely trust a good deal more than we do. We may waive just so much care of ourselves as we honestly bestow elsewhere. Nature is as well adapted to our weakness as to our strength. The incessant anxiety and strain of some is a well-nigh incurable form of disease. We are made to exaggerate the importance of what work we do; and yet how much is not done by us! or, what if we had been taken sick? How vigilant we are! determined not to live by faith if we can avoid it; all the day long on the alert, at night we unwillingly say our prayers and commit ourselves to uncertainties. So thoroughly and sincerely are we compelled to live, reverencing our life, and denying the possibility of change. This is the only way, we say; but there are as many ways as there can be drawn radii from one centre. All change is a miracle to contemplate; but it is a miracle which is taking place every instant. Confucius said, 'To know that we know what we know, and that we do not know what we do not know, that is true knowledge.' When one man has reduced a fact of the imagination to be a fact to his understanding, I foresee that all men at length establish their lives on that basis." -Henry David Thoreau
"The dullest soul cannot go upon such an expedition without some of the spirit of adventure; as if he had stolen the boat of Charon and gone down the Styx on a midnight expedition into the realms of Pluto." -Henry David Thoreau
"The bullet of your thought must have overcome its lateral and ricochet motion and fallen into its last and steady course before it reaches the ear of the hearer, else it may plow out again through the side of his head." -Henry David Thoreau
"I think that he should keep a caravansary on the world's highway, where philosophers of all nations might put up, and on his sign should be printed, 'Entertainment for man, but not for his beast. Enter ye that have leisure and a quiet mind, who earnestly seek the right road." -Henry David Thoreau
"Beware of all enterprises that require new clothes" -Henry David Thoreau
"Most men, even in this comparatively free country, through mere ignorance and mistake, are so occupied with the factitious cares and superfluously course labors of life that its finer fruits cannot be plucked by them." -Henry David Thoreau
"En una palabra, todas las cosas buenas son salvajes y libres. Hay algo en unos acordes musicales, sean producidos por un instrumento o por la voz humana --por ejemplo, el sonido de una corneta en una noche de verano-- que por su salvajismo, hablando sin ánimo de ironizar, me recuerda a las voces que profieren los animales salvajes en sus bosques originarios. Puedo entender mucha de su naturalidad. Dadme por amigos y vecinos hombres salvajes, no hombres domesticados. La naturaleza de un salvaje no es sino un pálido símbolo de la terrible ferocidad que conocen los hombres buenos y los amantes.'Pasaje de: Henry David Thoreau. 'Caminar'." -Henry David Thoreau
"Standing on the snow-covered plain, as if in a pasture amid the hills, I cut my way first through a foot of snow, and then a foot of ice, and open a window under my feet, where, kneeling to drink, I look down into the quiet parlor of the fishes, pervaded by a softened light as through a window of ground glass, with its bright sanded floor the same as in summer; there a perennial waveless serenity reigns as in the amber twilight sky, corresponding to the cool and even temperament of the inhabitants. Heaven is under our feet as well as over our heads." -Henry David Thoreau
"In a pleasant spring morning all men's sins are forgiven." -Henry David Thoreau
"Happiness is like a butterfly, the more you chase it, the more it will elude you. But if you turn your attention to other things, it will come and sit softly on your shoulder." -Henry David Thoreau
"Do not be too moral. You may cheat yourself out of too much life. Aim above morality. Be not simply good; be good for something." -Henry David Thoreau
"We should treat our minds, that is, ourselves, as innocent and ingenuous children, whose guardians we are, and be careful what objects and what subjects we thrust on their attention." -Henry David Thoreau
"men have become the tools of their tools. The" -Henry David Thoreau
"He who is only a traveller learns things at second-hand and by the halves, and is poor authority" -Henry David Thoreau
"Two sturdy oaks I mean, which side by side,Withstand the winter's storm,And spite of wind and tide,Grow up the meadow's pride,For both are strong.Above they barely touch, but underminedDown to their deepest source,Admiring you shall findTheir roots are intertwinedInsep'rably." -Henry David Thoreau
"به همان نسبتی که زندگی درونی ما ناکام می ماند بیشتر و ناامیدانه تر به پست خانه سر میزنیم." -Henry David Thoreau
"I am sure that I never read any memorable news in a newspaper. If we read of one man robbed, or murdered, or killed by accident, or one house burned, ...., we never need read of another. One is enough. If you're acquainted with the principle, what do you care for a myriad instances and applications? To a philosopher all news, as it is called, is gossip, and they who edit and read it are old (wo)men over their tea." -Henry David Thoreau
"Per noi spunta solo quel giorno al cui sorgere siamo svegli." -Henry David Thoreau
"What is the price-current of an honest man and patriot to-day?" -Henry David Thoreau
"In our daily intercourse with men, our nobler faculties are dormant and suffered to rust. None will pay us the compliment to expect nobleness from us. Though we have gold to give, they demand only copper." -Henry David Thoreau
"The same sun which ripens my beans illumines at once a system of earths like ours. If I had remembered this it would have prevented some mistakes." -Henry David Thoreau
"What shall we do with a man who is afraid of the woods, their solitude and darkness? What salvation is there for him? God is silent and mysterious. Some of our richest days are those in which no sun shines outwardly, but so much the more a sun shines inwardly. I love nature, I love the landscape, because it is so sincere." -Henry David Thoreau
"Our notions of law and harmony are commonly confined to those instances which we detect; but the harmony which results from a far greater number of seemingly conflicting, but really concurring, laws, which we have not detected, is still more wonderful." -Henry David Thoreau
"No encontraréis salud en la sociedad, sino en la naturaleza" -Henry David Thoreau
"There was an artist in the city of Kouroo who was disposed to strive after perfection. One day it came into his mind to make a staff. Having considered that in an imperfect work time is an ingredient, but into a perfect work time does not enter, he said to himself, It shall be perfect in all respects, though I should do nothing else in my life. He proceeded instantly to the forest for wood, being resolved that it should not be made of unsuitable material; and as he searched for and rejected stick after stick, his friends gradually deserted him, for they grew old in their works and died, but he grew not older by a moment. His singleness of purpose and resolution, and his elevated piety, endowed him, without his knowledge, with perennial youth. As he made no compromise with Time, Time kept out of his way, and only sighed at a distance because he could not overcome him. Before he had found a stock in all respects suitable the city of Kouroo was a hoary ruin, and he sat on one of its mounds to peel the stick. Before he had given it the proper shape the dynasty of the Candahars was at an end, and with the point of the stick he wrote the name of the last of that race in the sand, and then resumed his work. By the time he had smoothed and polished the staff Kalpa was no longer the pole-star; and ere he had put on the ferule and the head adorned with precious stones, Brahma had awoke and slumbered many times. But why do I stay to mention these things? When the finishing stroke was put to his work, it suddenly expanded before the eyes of the astonished artist into the fairest of all the creations of Brahma. He had made a new system in making a staff, a world with full and fair proportions; in which, though the old cities and dynasties had passed away, fairer and more glorious ones had taken their places. And now he saw by the heap of shavings still fresh at his feet, that, for him and his work, the former lapse of time had been an illusion, and that no more time had elapsed than is required for a single scintillation from the brain of Brahma to fall on and inflame the tinder of a mortal brain. The material was pure, and his art was pure; how could the result be other than wonderful?" -Henry David Thoreau
"It is remarkable how many creatures live wild and free though secret in the woods, and still sustain themselves in the neighborhood of towns, suspected by hunters only. How retired the otter manages to live here! He grows to be four feet long, as big as a small boy, perhaps without any human being getting a glimpse of him. I" -Henry David Thoreau
"When I wrote the following pages, or rather the bulk of them, I lived alone, in the woods, a mile from any neighbor, in a house which I had built myself, on the shore of Walden Pond, in Concord, Massachusetts, and earned my living by the labor of my hands only." -Henry David Thoreau
"The words which express our faith and piety are not definite; yet they are significant and fragrant like frankincense to superior natures." -Henry David Thoreau
"Sigue un camino, aunque sea estrecho y torcido, en el que puedas caminar con amor y reverencia.' / 'Este mundo no es sino un lienzo para nuestra imaginación." -Henry David Thoreau
"my greatest skill has been to want but little" -Henry David Thoreau
"We commonly do not remember that it is, after all, always the first person that is speaking. I should not talk so much about myself if there were anybody else whom I knew as well." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is a fool's life, as they will find when they get to the end of it, if not before." -Henry David Thoreau
"Me complace ver cuán pequeño espacio ocupan en el paisaje el hombre y sus asuntos, la iglesia, el estado y la escuela, los oficios y el comercio, las industrias y la agricultura; incluso el más alarmante de todos, la política. La política no es más que un estrecho campo, al que conduce un camino aún más estrecho. A veces encamino allí al viajero. Si quieres ir al mundo de la política, sigue la carretera, sigue a ese mercader, trágate el polvo que levanta, y te conducirá derecho allí; porque también ese mundo es limitado, no lo ocupa todo. Yo paso ante él como ante un campo de judías en el bosque, y lo olvido. En media hora puedo llegar a alguna porción de la superficie terrestre que no haya pisado pie humano durante un año y donde, por lo tanto, no hay política, que es sólo como el humo del cigarro de un hombre." -Henry David Thoreau
"But man's capacities have never been measured; nor are we to judge of what he can do by any precedents, so little has been tried." -Henry David Thoreau
"We should be blessed if we lived in the present always, and took advantage of every accident that befell us, like the grass which confesses the influence of the slightest dew that falls on it; and did not spend our time in atoning for the neglect of past opportunities, which we call doing our duty. We loiter in winter while it is already spring." -Henry David Thoreau
"There are nowadays professors of philosophy, but not philosophers. Yet it is admirable to profess because it was once admirable to live. T" -Henry David Thoreau
"To make a railroad round the world available to all mankind is equivalent to grading the whole surface of the planet." -Henry David Thoreau
"the State met me in behalf of the Church," -Henry David Thoreau
"The incessant anxiety and strain of some is a well-nigh incurable form of disease. We are made to exaggerate the importance of what work we do; and yet how much is not done by us!" -Henry David Thoreau
"simple and sincere account of his own life, and not merely what he has heard of other men's lives;" -Henry David Thoreau
"Nature and human life are as various as our several constitutions. Who shall say what prospect life offers to another? Could a greater miracle take place than for us to look through each other's eyes for an instant? We should live in all the ages of the world in an hour; ay, in all the worlds of the ages." -Henry David Thoreau
"I do not say that John or Jonathan will realize all this; but such is the character of that morrow which mere lapse of time can never make to dawn. The light which puts out our eyes is darkness to us. Only that day dawns to which we are awake. There is more day to dawn. The sun is but a morning star." -Henry David Thoreau
"La legge non ha mai reso gli uomini neppure poco più giusti; e anzi, a causa del rispetto della legge, perfino gli onesti sono quotidianamente trasformati in agenti d'ingiustizia." -Henry David Thoreau
"Quiero decir unas palabras en favor de la Naturaleza, de la libertad total y el estado salvaje, en contraposición a una libertad y una cultura simplemente civiles; considerar al hombre como habitante o parte constitutiva de la Naturaleza, más que como miembro de la sociedad. Desearía hacer una declaración radical, si se me permite el énfasis, porque ya hay suficientes campeones de la civilización; el clérigo, el consejo escolar y cada uno devosotros os encargaréis de defenderla." -Henry David Thoreau
"Toda nuestra vida es de una moral sorprendente. Entre la virtud y el vicio, jamás hay un instante de tregua." -Henry David Thoreau
"Happiness is like a butterfly: the more you chase it, the more it will elude you, but if you turn your attention to other things, it will come and sit softly on your shoulder…" -Henry David Thoreau
"Most men never appear to have considered what a house is, and are actually though needlessly poor all their lives because they think that they must have such a one as their neighbors have." -Henry David Thoreau
"I have been anxious to improve the nick of time, and notch it on my stick too; to stand on the meeting of two eternities, the past and future, which is precisely the present moment; to toe that line. You" -Henry David Thoreau
"No humane being, past the thoughtless age of boyhood, will wantonly murder any creature which holds its life by the same tenure that he does. The" -Henry David Thoreau
"Me fui a los bosques porque quería vivir sin prisas. Quería vivir intensamente y sorberle todo el jugo a la vida. Dejar a un lado todo lo que no era la vida. Para no descubrir, a la hora de mi muerte, que no había vivido." -Henry David Thoreau
"Why should we be in such desperate haste to succeed and in such desperate enterprises? If a man does not keep pace with his companions, perhaps it is because he hears a different drummer. Let him step to the music which he hears, however measured or far away. It is not important that he should mature as soon as an apple tree or an oak. Shall he turn his spring into summer? If the condition of things which we were made for is not yet, what were any reality which we can substitute?" -Henry David Thoreau
"Time is but the stream I go a-fishing in. I drink at it; but while I drink I see the sandy bottom and detect how shallow it is. Its thin current slides away, but eternity remains. I would drink deeper; fish in the sky, whose bottom is pebbly with stars. I cannot count one. I know not the first letter of the alphabet. I have always been regretting that I was not as wise as the day I was born." -Henry David Thoreau
"Io non sono nato per essere costretto. Respirerò liberamente. Vedremo chi è il più forte. Che forza ha una moltitudine? Solo chi risponde a una legge più alta della mia può costringermi a obbedire. Vogliono che diventi come loro. Ma non conosco uomini costretti a vivere in un modo o in un altro da masse di uomini. Che vita sarebbe quella?" -Henry David Thoreau
"I began to notice from the cars a tree with handsome rose-colored flowers. At first I thought it some variety of thorn; but it was not long before the truth flashed on me, that this was my long-sought Crab-Apple. It was the prevailing flowering shrub or tree to be seen from the cars at that season of the year,--about the middle of May. But the cars never stopped before one, and so I was launched on the bosom of the Mississippi without having touched one, experiencing the fate of Tantalus. On arriving at St. Anthony's Falls, I was sorry to be told that I was too far north for the Crab-Apple. Nevertheless I succeeded in finding it about eight miles west of the Falls; touched it and smelled it, and secured a lingering corymb of flowers for my herbarium." -Henry David Thoreau
"Bankruptcy and repudiation are the spring-boards from which much of our civilization vaults and turns its somersets, but the savage stands on the unelastic plank of famine" -Henry David Thoreau
"I too would fain be a track-repairer somewhere in the orbit of the earth." -Henry David Thoreau
"Whate'er we leave to God,God does and blesses us." -Henry David Thoreau
"Большинство людей ведет безнадежное существование. То, что зовется смирением, на самом деле есть убежденное отчаяние." -Henry David Thoreau
"We should go forth on the shortest walk, perchance, in the spirit of undying adventure, never to return--prepared to send back our embalmed hearts only as relics to our desolate kingdoms." -Henry David Thoreau
"When he has obtained those things which are necessary to life, there is another alternative than to obtain the superfluities; and that is, to adventure on life now, his vacation from humbler toil having commenced." -Henry David Thoreau
"It would surpass the powers of a well man nowadays to take up his bed and walk, and I should certainly advise a sick one to lay down his bed and run." -Henry David Thoreau
"But a government in which the majority rule in all cases can not be based on justice, even as far as men understand it." -Henry David Thoreau
"O que um homem pensa de si, eis o que determina, ou pelo menos indica, o seu destino." -Henry David Thoreau
"In accumulating property for ourselves or our prosperity, in founding a family or a state, or aquiring fame even, we are mortal; but in dealing with truth we are immortal." -Henry David Thoreau
"Blue is light seen through a veil." -Henry David Thoreau
"A stereotyped but unconscious despair is concealed even under what are called the games and amusements of mankind. There is no play in them, for this comes after work." -Henry David Thoreau
"A minority is powerless while it conforms to the majority;" -Henry David Thoreau
"To affect the quality of the day, that is the highest of arts." -Henry David Thoreau
"What a man thinks of himself, that it is which determines, or rather indicates, his fate. Self-emancipation even in the West Indian provinces of the fancy and imagination" -Henry David Thoreau
"Instead of no path to the front-yard gate in the Great Snow,--no gate--no front-yard,--and no path to the civilized world!" -Henry David Thoreau
"Most men, even in this comparatively free country, through mere ignorance and mistake, are so occupied with the factitious cares and superfluously coarse labors of life that its finer fruits cannot be plucked by them. Their fingers, from excessive toil, are too clumsy and tremble too much for that. Actually, the laboring man has not leisure for a true integrity day by day; he cannot afford to sustain the manliest relations to men; his labor would be depreciated in the market. He has no time to be anything but a machine. How can he remember well his ignorance -- which his growth requires -- who has so often to use his knowledge? We should feed and clothe him gratuitously sometimes, and recruit him with our cordials, before we judge of him. The finest qualities of our nature, like the bloom on fruits, can be preserved only by the most delicate handling. Yet we do not treat ourselves nor one another thus tenderly." -Henry David Thoreau
"By closing the eyes and slumbering, and consenting to be deceived by shows, men establish and confirm their daily life of routine and habit everywhere, which still is built on purely illusory foundations. Children, who play life, discern its true law and relations more clearly than men, who fail to live it worthily, but who think that they are wiser by experience, that is, by failure." -Henry David Thoreau
"Most men, even in this comparatively free country, through mere ignorance and mistake, are so occupied with the factitious cares and superfluously coarse labors of life that its finer fruits cannot be plucked by them. Their fingers, from excessive toil, are too clumsy and tremble too much for that. Actually, the laboring man has not leisure for a true integrity day by day; he cannot afford to sustain the manliest relations to men; his labor would be depreciated in the market." -Henry David Thoreau
"he details a cost-analysis of the entire construction project. In order to make a little money, Thoreau cultivates a modest bean-field, a job that tends to occupy his mornings. He reserves his afternoons and evenings for reflection, reading, and walking about the countryside." -Henry David Thoreau
"Wir sind meistens einsamer, wenn wir uns unter Menschen begeben, als wenn wir in unseren Zimmern bleiben." -Henry David Thoreau
"beware of all enterprises that require new clothes, and not rather a new wearer of clothes." -Henry David Thoreau
"guardatevi da tutte le imprese che richiedono abiti nuovi, invece che nuovi «indossatori». Se non c'è l'uomo nuovo, come si potranno fare abiti che gli si adattino? Se dovete intraprendere qualche cosa di nuovo, fatelo nei vostri abiti vecchi." -Henry David Thoreau
"At the approach of spring the red squirrels got under my house, two at a time, directly under my feet as I sat reading or writing, and kept up the queerest chuckling and chirruping and vocal pirouetting and gurgling sounds that ever were heard; and when I stamped they only chirruped the louder, as if past all fear and respect in their mad pranks, defying humanity to stop them. No, you don't--chickaree--chickaree. They were wholly deaf to my arguments, or failed to perceive their force, and fell into a strain of invective that was irresistible." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is desirable that a man be clad so simply that he can lay his hands on himself in the dark, and that he live in all respects so compactly and preparedly that, if an enemy take the town, he can, like the old philosopher, walk out the gate empty-handed without anxiety." -Henry David Thoreau
"I would not subtract anything from the praise that is due to philanthropy, but merely demand justice for all who by their lives and works are a blessing to mankind. I do not value chiefly a man's uprightness and benevolence, which are, as it were, his stem and leaves. Those plants of whose greenness withered we make herb tea for the sick serve but a humble use, and are most employed by quacks. I want the flower and fruit of a man; that some fragrance be wafted over from him to me, and some ripeness flavor our intercourse. His goodness must not be a partial and transitory act, but a constant superfluity, which costs him nothing and of which he is unconscious. This is a charity that hides a multitude of sins. The philanthropist too often surrounds mankind with the remembrance of his own castoff griefs as an atmosphere, and calls it sympathy." -Henry David Thoreau
"To a philosopher all news, as it is called, is gossip, and they who edit and read it are old women over their tea. Yet" -Henry David Thoreau
"No man with a genius for legislation has appeared in America. They are rare in the history of the world. There are orators, politicians, and eloquent men, by the thousand; but the speaker has not yet opened his mouth to speak, who is capable of settling the much-vexed questions of the day. We love eloquence for its own sake, and not for any truth which it may utter, or any heroism it may inspire." -Henry David Thoreau
"We are made to exaggerate the importance of what work we do; and yet how much is not done by us! or," -Henry David Thoreau
"Fui a los bosques porque quería vivir deliberadamente; enfrentar solo los hechos de la vida y ver si podía aprender lo que ella tenía que enseñar. Quise vivir profundamente y desechar todo aquello que no fuera vida... para no darme cuenta, en el momento de morir, que no había vivido." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is never too late to give up your prejudices. No way of thinking or doing, however ancient, can be trusted without proof." -Henry David Thoreau
"The value of a man is not in his skin, that we should touch him." -Henry David Thoreau
"Why not put my house, my parlour, behind this plot, instead of behind that meagre assemblage of curiosities, that poor apology for a Nature and Art, which I call my front yard?" -Henry David Thoreau
"I aspire to be acquainted with wiser men than this our Concord soil has produced, whose names are hardly known here. Or shall I hear the name of Plato and never read his book? As if Plato were my townsman and I never saw him -- my next neighbor and I never heard him speak or attended to the wisdom of his words. But how actually is it? His Dialogues, which contain what was immortal in him, lie on the next shelf, and yet I never read them. We are underbred and low-lived and illiterate; and in this respect I confess I do not make any very broad distinction between the illiterateness of my townsman who cannot read at all and the illiterateness of him who has learned to read only what is for children and feeble intellects. We should be as good as the worthies of antiquity, but partly by first knowing how good they were. We are a race of tit-men, and soar but little higher in our intellectual flights than the columns of the daily paper." -Henry David Thoreau
"I left the woods for as good a reason as I went there. Perhaps it seemed to me that I had several more lives to live, and could not spare any more time for that one. It is remarkable how easily and insensibly we fall into a particular route, and make a beaten track for ourselves. I had not lived there a week before my feet wore a path from my door to the pond-side; and though it is five or six years since I trod it, it is still quite distinct. It is true, I fear, that others may have fallen into it, and so helped to keep it open. The surface of the earth is soft and impressible by the feet of men; and so with the paths which the mind travels. How worn and dusty, then, must be the highways of the world, how deep the ruts of tradition and conformity! I did not wish to take a cabin passage, but rather to go before the mast and on the deck of the world, for there I could best see the moonlight amid the mountains. I do not wish to go below now." -Henry David Thoreau
"همه‌ی چیزهای خوب، وحشی و آزادند." -Henry David Thoreau
"Whatever have been thy failures hitherto, 'be not afflicted, my child, for who shall assign to thee what thou hast left undone?" -Henry David Thoreau
"But, wherever a man goes, men will pursue and paw him with their dirty institutions, and, if they can, constrain him to belong to their desperate odd-fellow society. It" -Henry David Thoreau
"In a pleasant spring morning all men's sins are forgiven. Such a day is a truce to vice. While such a sun holds out to burn, the vilest sinner may return. Through our own recovered innocence we discern the innocence of our neighbors. You may have known your neighbor yesterday for a thief, a drunkard, or a sensualist, and merely pitied or despised him, and despaired of the world; but the sun shines bright and warm this first spring morning, recreating the world, and you meet him at some serene work, and see how it is exhausted and debauched veins expand with still joy and bless the new day, feel the spring influence with the innocence of infancy, and all his faults are forgotten. There is not only an atmosphere of good will about him, but even a savor of holiness groping for expression, blindly and ineffectually perhaps, like a new-born instinct, and for a short hour the south hill-side echoes to no vulgar jest." -Henry David Thoreau
"to stand on the meeting of two eternities, the past and future, which is precisely the present moment; to" -Henry David Thoreau
"the man who goes alone can start today; but he who travels with another must wait till that other is ready, and it may be a long time before they get off." -Henry David Thoreau
"If we stay at home and mind our business, who will want railroads?" -Henry David Thoreau
"At length the jays arrive, whose discordant screams were heard long before, as they were warily making their approach an eighth of a mile off, and in a stealthy and sneaking manner they flit from tree to tree, nearer and nearer, and pick up the kernels which the squirrels have dropped." -Henry David Thoreau
"The only people who ever get any place interesting are the people who get lost. That's why the planets are so much better company than the stars -- they keep wandering back and forth across the sky and you never know where you're going to find them." -Henry David Thoreau
"I learned this, at least, by my experiment; that if one advances confidently in the direction of his dreams, and endeavors to live the life which he has imagined, he will meet with a success unexpected in common hours… . In proportion as he simplifies his life, the laws of the universe will appear less complex, and solitude will not be solitude, nor poverty poverty, nor weakness weakness." -Henry David Thoreau
"The morning, which is the most memorable season of the day, is the awakening hour. Then there is least somnolence in us; and for an hour, at least, some part of us awakes which slumbers all the rest of the day and night. Little is to be expected of that day, if it can be called a day, to which we are not awakened by our Genius, but by the mechanical nudgings of some servitor, are not awakened by our own newly acquired force and aspirations from within, accompanied by the undulations of celestial music, instead of factory bells, and a fragrance filling the air--to a higher life than we fell asleep from; and thus the darkness bear its fruit, and prove itself to be good, no less than the light. That man who does not believe that each day contains an earlier, more sacred, and auroral hour than he has yet profaned, has despaired of life, and is pursuing a descending and darkening way." -Henry David Thoreau
"穷人总惯于诉苦，说这是一个冰冷的世界；我们总是把自己的大部分苦恼直接归因于冰冷，身体上的冰冷，同时也是社会上的冰冷。" -Henry David Thoreau
"Nicht wir fahren auf den Eisenbahnschienen; die Eisenbahn fährt auf uns." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is no honest and blunt tu-whit tu-whoo of the poets, but, without jesting, a most solemn graveyard ditty, the mutual consolations of suicide lovers remembering the pangs and the delights of supernal love in the infernal groves. Yet I love to hear their wailing, their doleful responses, trilled along the woodside; reminding me sometimes of music and singing birds; as if it were the dark and tearful side of music, the regrets and sighs that would fain be sung. They are the spirits, the low spirits and melancholy forebodings, of fallen souls that once in human shape night-walked the earth and did the deeds of darkness, now expiating their sins with their wailing hymns or threnodies in the scenery of their transgressions. They give me a new sense of the variety and capacity of that nature which is our common dwelling. Oh-o-o-o-o that I never had been bor-r-r-r-n! sighs one on this side of the pond, and circles with the restlessness of despair to some new perch on the gray oaks. Then--that I never had been bor-r-r-r-n! echoes another on the farther side with tremulous sincerity, and--bor-r-r-r-n! comes faintly from far in the Lincoln woods." -Henry David Thoreau
"Near the end of March, 1845, I borrowed an axe and went down to the woods by Walden Pond, nearest to where I intended to build my house" -Henry David Thoreau
"If men would steadily observe realities only, and not allow themselves to be deluded, life, to compare it with such things as we know, would be like a fairty tale from the Arabian Nights' Entertainments." -Henry David Thoreau
"When I ask for a garment of a particular form, my tailoress tells me gravely, 'They do not make them so now,' not emphasizing the 'They' at all, as if she quoted an authority as impersonal as the Fates," -Henry David Thoreau
"I heartily accept the motto,--'That government is best which governs least'; and I should like to see it acted up to more rapidly and systematically. Carried out, it finally amounts to this, which also I believe,--'That government is best which governs not at all'; and when men are prepared for it, that will be the kind of government which they will have. Government" -Henry David Thoreau
"It is very evident what mean and sneaking lives many of you live, for my sight has been whetted by experience; always on the limits, trying to get into business and trying to get out of debt, a very ancient slough, called by the Latins aes alienum, another's brass, for some of their coins were made of brass; still living, and dying, and buried by this other's brass; always promising to pay, promising to pay, tomorrow, and dying today, insolvent;" -Henry David Thoreau
"احترام به قانون، اگر در تضاد با احترام به حقیقت قرار گیرد شر است." -Henry David Thoreau
"Usually the red squirrel (Sciurus Hudsonius) waked me in the dawn, coursing over the roof and up and down the sides of the house, as if sent out of the woods for this purpose. In the course of the winter I threw out half a bushel of ears of sweet corn, which had not got ripe, on to the snow-crust by my door, and was amused by watching the motions of the various animals which were baited by it." -Henry David Thoreau
"The callous palms of the labourer are conversant with finer tissues of self-respect and heroism, whose touch thrills the heart, than the languid fingers of idleness." -Henry David Thoreau
"The newspaper is a Bible which we read every morning and every afternoon, standing and sitting, riding and walking. It is a Bible which every man carries in his pocket, which lies on every table and counter, and which the mail, and thousands of missionaries, are continually dispersing. It is, in short, the only book which America has printed and which America reads. So wide is its influence. The editor is a preacher whom you voluntarily support. Your tax is commonly one cent daily, and it costs nothing for pew hire. But how many of these preachers preach the truth? I repeat the testimony of many an intelligent foreigner, as well as my own convictions, when I say, that probably no country was ever rubled by so mean a class of tyrants as, with a few noble exceptions, are the editors of the periodical press in this country. And as they live and rule only by their servility, and appealing to the worse, and not the better, nature of man, the people who read them are in the condition of the dog that returns to his vomit." -Henry David Thoreau
"I also have in my mind that seemingly wealthy, but most terribly impoverished class of all, who have accumulated dross, but know not how to use it, or get rid of it, and thus have forged their own golden or silver fetters." -Henry David Thoreau
"All true greatness runs as level a course, and is as unaspiring, as the plow in the furrow. It wears the homeliest dress and speaks the homeliest language" -Henry David Thoreau
"I should not talk so much about myself if there were anybody else whom I knew as well. Unfortunately, I am confined to this theme by the narrowness of my experience. Moreover," -Henry David Thoreau
"I am glad to have drunk water so long, for the same reason that I prefer the natural sky to an opium-eater's heaven. I would fain keep sober always; and there are infinite degrees of drunkenness. I believe that water is the only drink for a wise man; wine is not so noble a liquor; and think of dashing the hopes of a morning with a cup of warm coffee, or of an evening with a dish of tea!" -Henry David Thoreau
"Indeed, the more you have of such things the poorer you are." -Henry David Thoreau
"Thus the state never intentionally confronts a man's sense, intellectual or moral, but only his body, his senses. It is not armed with superior wit or honesty, but with superior physical strength. I was not born to be forced. I will breathe after my own fashion. Let us see who is the strongest." -Henry David Thoreau
"A stereotyped but unconscious despair is concealed even under what are called the games and amusements of mankind. There is no play in them, for this comes after work. But it is a characteristic of wisdom not to do desperate things." -Henry David Thoreau
"Mi región ofrece gran número de paseos espléndidos; y aunque durante muchos años he caminado prácticamente cada día, y a veces durante varios días, aún no los he agotado. Un panorama completamente nuevo me hace muy feliz, y sigo encontrando uno cada tarde. Dos o tres horas de camino me llevan a una zona tan desconocida como siempre espero. Una granja solitaria que no haya visto antes resulta a veces tan magnífica como los dominios del rey de Dahomey." -Henry David Thoreau
"I never found the companion that was so companionable than solitude." -Henry David Thoreau
"Go confidently in the direction of your dreams! Live the life you've imagined." -Henry David Thoreau
"There is something servile in the habit of seeking after a law which we may obey. We may study the laws of matter at and for our convenience, but a successful life knows no law. It is an unfortunate discovery certainly, that of a law which binds us where we did not know before that we were bound. Live free, child of the mist--and with respect to knowledge we are all children of the mist. The man who takes the liberty to live is superior to all the laws, by virtue of his relation to the lawmaker. 'That is active duty,' says the Vishnu Purana, 'which is not for our bondage; that is knowledge which is for our liberation: all other duty is good only unto weariness; all other knowledge is only the cleverness of an artist." -Henry David Thoreau
"I am grateful for what I am and have. My thanksgiving is perpetual. It is surprising how contented one can be with nothing definite--only a sense of existence." -Henry David Thoreau
"Nature abhors repetition" -Henry David Thoreau
"The best books are not read even by those who are called good readers." -Henry David Thoreau
"Measure your health by your sympathy with morning and Spring. If there is no response in you to the awakening of nature, if the prospect of an early morning walk does not banish sleep, if the warble of the first bluebird does not thrill you, know that the morning and spring of your life are past. Thus you may feel your pulse." -Henry David Thoreau
"O convívio social, geralmente, é banal demais" -Henry David Thoreau
"Be true to your work, your word, and you're friend." -Henry David Thoreau
"How does it become a man to behave toward the American government today? I answer that he cannot without disgrace be associated with it. I cannot for an instant recognize that political organization as my government which is the slave's government also." -Henry David Thoreau
"Why should our life be in any respect provincial? If we will read newspapers, why not skip the gossip of Boston and take the best newspaper in the world at once?--" -Henry David Thoreau
"A written word is the choicest of relics. It is something at once more intimate with us and more universal than any other work of art. It is the work of art nearest to life itself. It may be translated into every language, and not only be read but actually breathed from all human lips;--not be represented on canvas or in marble only, but be carved out of the breath of life itself. The symbol of an ancient man's thought becomes modern man's speech." -Henry David Thoreau
"You want room for your thoughts to get into sailing trim and run a course or two before they make their port. The bullet of your thought must have overcome its lateral and ricochet motion and fallen into its last and steady course before it reaches the ear of the hearer, else it may plow out again through the side of his head." -Henry David Thoreau
"Google this by Thoreau and see if you can find it among the many many posterized quotes. No. We want doctrines and schemes. 'The wisest man preaches no doctrines; he has no scheme; he sees no rafter, not even a cobweb, against the heavens. It is clear sky. If I ever see more clearly at one time than at another, the medium through which I see is clearer." -Henry David Thoreau
"I left the woods for as good a reason as I went there. Perhaps it seemed to me that I had several more lives to live, and could not spare any more time for that one." -Henry David Thoreau
"To anticipate, not the sunrise and the dawn merely, but, if possible, Nature herself!  How many mornings, summer and winter, before yet any neighbor was stirring about his business, have I been about mine! No doubt, many of my townsmen have met me returning from this enterprise, farmers starting for Boston in the twilight, or woodchoppers going to their work. It is true, I never assisted the sun materially in his rising, but, doubt not, it was of the last importance only to be present at it." -Henry David Thoreau
"The first sparrow of spring! The year beginning with younger hope than ever!" -Henry David Thoreau
"Late in the evening I heard the distant rumbling of wagons over bridges -- a sound heard farther than almost any other at night -- the baying of dogs, and sometimes again the lowing of some disconsolate cow in a distant barn-yard. In the mean-while all the shore rang with the trump of bullfrogs, the sturdy spirits of ancient wine-bibbers and wassailers, still unrepentant, trying to sing a catch in their Stygian lake -- if the Walden nymphs will pardon the comparison, for though there are almost no weeds, there are frogs there -- who would fain keep up the hilarious rules of their old festal tables, though their voices have waxed hoarse and solemnly grave, mocking at mirth, and the wine has lost its flavor, and become only liquor to distend their paunches, and sweet intoxication never comes to drown the memory of the past, but mere saturation and waterloggedness and distention." -Henry David Thoreau
"I do not refuse the Blue-Pearmain, I fill my pockets on each side; and as I retrace my steps in the frosty eve, being perhaps four or five miles from home, I eat one first from this side, and then from that, to keep my balance. [17]" -Henry David Thoreau
"Se uma planta não pode viver de acordo com sua natureza, ela morre. O mesmo ocorre com um homem." -Henry David Thoreau
"Let us settle ourselves, and work and wedge our feet downward through the mud and slush of opinion, and prejudice, and tradition, and delusion, and appearance, that alluvion which covers the globe, through Paris and London, through New York and Boston and Concord, through Church and State, through poetry and philosophy and religion, till we come to a hard bottom and rocks in place, which we can call reality, and say, This is, and no mistake; and then begin, having a point d'appui, below freshet and frost and fire, a place where you might found a wall or a state, or set a lamp-post safely, or perhaps a gauge, not a Nilometer, but a Realometer, that future ages might know how deep a freshet of shams and appearances had gathered from time to time." -Henry David Thoreau
"I should not obtrude my affairs so much on the notice of my readers if very particular inquiries had not been made by my townsmen concerning my mode of life, which some would call impertinent, though they do not appear to me at all impertinent, but, considering the circumstances, very natural and pertinent." -Henry David Thoreau
"There are none happy in the world but beings who enjoy freely a vast horizon" -Henry David Thoreau
"some small counting house on the coast, in some Salem harbor, will be fixture enough. You will export such articles as the country affords, purely native products, much ice and pine timber and a little granite, always in native bottoms. These will be good ventures. To oversee all the details yourself in person; to be at once pilot and captain, and owner and underwriter; to buy and sell and keep the accounts; to read every letter received, and write or read every letter sent; to superintend the discharge of imports night and day; to be upon many parts of the coast almost at the same time--often the richest freight will be discharged upon a Jersey shore;--to be your own telegraph, unweariedly sweeping the horizon, speaking all passing vessels bound coastwise; to keep up a steady despatch of commodities, for the supply of such a distant and exorbitant market; to keep yourself informed of the state of the markets, prospects of war and peace everywhere, and anticipate the tendencies of trade and civilization--taking advantage of the results of all exploring expeditions, using new passages and all improvements in navigation;--charts to be studied, the position of reefs and new lights and buoys to be ascertained, and ever, and ever, the logarithmic tables to be corrected, for by the error of some calculator the vessel often splits upon a rock that should have reached a friendly pier--there is the untold fate of La Prouse;--universal science to be kept pace with, studying the lives of all great discoverers and navigators, great adventurers and merchants, from Hanno and the Phoenicians down to our day; in fine, account of stock to be taken from time to time, to know how you stand. It is a labor to task the faculties of a man--such problems of profit and loss, of interest, of tare and tret, and gauging of all kinds in it, as demand a universal knowledge. I have thought that Walden Pond would be a good place for business, not solely on account of the railroad and the ice trade; it offers advantages which it may not be good policy to divulge; it is a good port and a good foundation. No Neva marshes to be filled; though you must everywhere build on piles of your own driving. It is said that a flood-tide, with a westerly wind, and ice in the Neva, would sweep St. Petersburg from the face of the earth. As this business was to be entered into without the usual capital, it may not be easy to conjecture where those means, that will still be indispensable to every such undertaking, were to be obtained." -Henry David Thoreau
"Khi sống trong rừng, tôi có nhiều khách hơn bất kì thời gian nào khác trong đời tôi. Trong khía cạnh này, bạn bè tôi được sàng lọc đơn thuần chỉ do tôi sống cách xa thành phố." -Henry David Thoreau
"There are a thousand hacking at the branches of evil to one who is striking at the root, and it may be that he who bestows the largest amount of time and money on the needy is doing the most by his mode of life to produce that misery which he strives in vain to relieve. It is the pious slave-breeder devoting the proceeds of every tenth slave to buy a Sunday's liberty for the rest. Some" -Henry David Thoreau
"The life which men praise and regard as successful is but one kind Wy should we exaggerate any one kind at the expense of the others?" -Henry David Thoreau
"The most distinct and beautiful statement of any form must take at last the mathematical form.We might so simplify the rules of moral philosophy, as well as of arithmetic, that one formula would express them both" -Henry David Thoreau
"But already a change is taking place, owing, not to an increased humanity, but to an increased scarcity of game, for perhaps the hunter is the greatest friend of the animals hunted, not excepting the Humane Society." -Henry David Thoreau
"Mag dein Leben noch so armselig sein, nimm es auf dich und lebe es; versuche nicht, dich darum zu drücken, und beschimpfe es nicht. Es ist nicht so schlecht wie du. Es sieht am ärmsten aus, wenn du am reichsten bist. [...] Liebe dein Leben, arm wie es ist. Selbst im Armenhaus kann man vergnügte, ergreifende und erhebende Stunden erleben. Die untergehende Sonne spiegelt sich in seinen Fenstern genau wie in denen eines Palastes, und der Schnee davor schmilzt zur gleichen Zeit. [...] Die Dinge ändern sich nicht; wir ändern uns. Verkaufe deine Kleider und behalte deine Gedanken. Gott wird dafür sorgen, daß es dir an Gesellschaft nicht mangelt. [...] Demut wie auch Dunkelheit enthüllen das himmlische Licht. Die Schatten von Armut und Niedrigkeit umgeben uns, >> doch siehe! die Schöpfung dehnt sich vor unseren Augen aus <<. [...] Mit überflüssigem Reichtum kann man nur Überflüssiges kaufen. Um den Erfordernissen der Seele gerecht zu werden, braucht man kein Geld." -Henry David Thoreau
"The finest qualities of our nature, like the bloom on fruits, can be preserved only by the most delicate handling. Yet we do not treat ourselves nor one another thus tenderly." -Henry David Thoreau
"At present, in this vicinity, the best part of the land is not private property; the landscape is not owned, and the walker enjoys comparative freedom. But possibly the day will come when it will be partitioned off into so-called pleasure-grounds, in which a few will take a narrow and exclusive pleasure only--when fences shall be multiplied, and man-traps and other engines invented to confine men to the PUBLIC road, and walking over the surface of God's earth shall be construed to mean trespassing on some gentleman's grounds. To enjoy a thing exclusively is commonly to exclude yourself from the true enjoyment of it. Let us improve our opportunities, then, before the evil days come." -Henry David Thoreau
"Rather than love, than money, than fame ... give me truth" -Henry David Thoreau
"Si un hombre pasea por el bosque por placer todos los días, corre el riesgo de que le tomen por un haragán, pero si dedica el día entero a especular cortando bosques y dejando la tierra árida antes de tiempo, se le estima por ser un ciudadano trabajador y emprendedor. ¡Como si una ciudad no tuviera más interés en sus bosques que el de talarlos!" -Henry David Thoreau
"Books are the treasured wealth of the world and the fit inheritance of generations and nations. Books, the oldest and the best, stand naturally and rightfully on the shelves of every cottage. They have" -Henry David Thoreau
"The earth is not a mere fragment of dead history, stratum upon stratum like the leaves of a book, to be studied by geologists and antiquaries chiefly, but living poetry like the leaves of a tree, which precede flowers and fruit--not a fossil earth, but a living earth; compared with whose great central life all animal and vegetable life is merely parasitic." -Henry David Thoreau
"Le mieux que je puisse faire pour mon ami est d'être son ami." -Henry David Thoreau
"The mass of men lead lives of quiet desperation, and go to the grave with the song still in them." -Henry David Thoreau
"This American Government,－what is it but a tradition, though a recent one, endeavoring to transmit itself unimpaired to posterity, but each instant losing some of its integrity? It has not the vitality and force of a single living man; for a single man can bend it to his will." -Henry David Thoreau
"We get the language with which to describe our various lives out of a common mint.' (Letter, April 26, 1857, to B.B. Wiley)" -Henry David Thoreau
"Yo creo que la mente se puede profanar permanentemente con el hábito de escuchar cosas triviales, de modo que todos nuestros pensamientos se teñirán de trivialidad." -Henry David Thoreau
"While civilization has been improving our houses, it has not equally improved the men who are to inhabit them." -Henry David Thoreau
"si un hombre se adentra en los bosques por amor a ellos cada mañana, está en peligro de ser considerado un vago; pero si gasta su día completo especulando, cortando esos mismos bosques, y haciendo que la tierra se quede calva antes de tiempo, es un estimado y emprendedor ciudadano. Como si un pueblo no pudiese tener otro interés en un bosque que el de cortarlo" -Henry David Thoreau
"The progress from an absolute to a limited monarchy, from a limited monarchy to a democracy, is a progress toward a true respect for the individual. Even the Chinese philosopher was wise enough to regard the individual as the basis of the empire. Is a democracy, such as we know it, the last improvement possible in government? Is it not possible to take a step further towards recognizing and organizing the rights of man? There will never be a really free and enlightened State until the State comes to recognize the individual as a higher and independent power, from which all its own power and authority are derived, and treats him accordingly. I please myself with imagining a State at least which can afford to be just to all men, and to treat the individual with respect as a neighbor; which even would not think it inconsistent with its own repose if a few were to live aloof from it, not meddling with it, nor embraced by it, who fulfilled all the duties of neighbors and fellow-men. A State which bore this kind of fruit, and suffered it to drop off as fast as it ripened, would prepare the way for a still more perfect and glorious State, which also I have imagined, but not yet anywhere seen." -Henry David Thoreau
"To stand on the meeting of two eternities; the past and future" -Henry David Thoreau
"I expect to pass through this world but once; any good thing therefore that I can do, or any kindness I can show to any fellow creature, let me do it now; let me not defer or neglect it for I shall not pass this way again." -Henry David Thoreau
"Here is this vast, savage, hovering mother of ours, Nature, lying all around, with such beauty, and such affection for her children, as the leopard; and yet we are so early weaned from her breast to society, to that culture which is exclusively an interaction of man on man--a sort of breeding in and in, which produces at most a merely English nobility, a civilization destined to have a speedy limit." -Henry David Thoreau
"I went to the woods because I wished to live deliberately, to front only the essential facts of life, and to see if I could not learn what it had to teach, and not, when I came to die, discover that I had not lived." -Henry David Thoreau
"No wealth can buy the requisite leisure, freedom, and independence which are the capital in this profession. It comes only by the grace of God. It requires a direct dispensation from Heaven to become a walker. You must be born into the" -Henry David Thoreau
"the very pattering of the drops, and in every sound and sight around my house, an infinite and unaccountable friendliness all at once like an atmosphere sustaining me, as made the fancied advantages of human neighborhood insignificant, and I have never thought of them since." -Henry David Thoreau
"What we call knowledge is often our positive ignorance; ignorance our negative knowledge. By long years of patient industry and reading of the newspapers--for what are the libraries of science but files of newspapers--a man accumulates a myriad facts, lays them up in his memory, and then when in some spring of his life he saunters abroad into the Great Fields of thought, he, as it were, goes to grass like a horse and leaves all his harness behind in the stable. I would say to the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge, sometimes,--Go to grass. You have eaten hay long enough." -Henry David Thoreau
"But as I continued to think about the matter I gradually gained a bit of satisfaction from being considered an extremist. Was not Jesus an extremist in love? 'Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, pray for them that despitefully use you.' Was not Amos an extremist for justice--'Let justice roll down like waters and righteousness like a mighty stream.' Was not Paul an extremist for the gospel of Jesus Christ--'I bear in my body the marks of the Lord Jesus.' Was not Martin Luther an extremist--'Here I stand; I can do none other so help me God.' Was not John Bunyan an extremist--'I will stay in jail to the end of my days before I make a butchery of my conscience.' Was not Abraham Lincoln an extremist--'We hold these truths to be self evident that all men are created equal.' So the question is not whether we will be extremist but what kind of extremist will we be. Will we be extremists for hate or will we be extremists for love? Will we be extremists for the preservation of injustice--or will we be extremists for the cause of justice?" -Henry David Thoreau
"Il solo obbligo che ho il diritto di assumermi è di fare in ogni momento quello che penso sia giusto fare." -Henry David Thoreau
"Yo creo que no hay nada, ni tan siquiera el crimen, más opuesto a la poesía, a la filosofía, a la vida misma, que este incesante trabajar." -Henry David Thoreau
"I observed two large ants, the one red, the other much larger, nearly half an inch long, and black, fiercely contending with one another." -Henry David Thoreau
"This spending of the best part of one's life earning money in order to enjoy a questionable liberty during the least valuable part of it reminds me of the Englishman who went to India to make a fortune first, in order that he might return to England and live the life of a poet." -Henry David Thoreau
"In our most trivial walks, we are constantly, though unconsciously, steering like pilots by certain well-known beacons and headlands, and if we go beyond our usual course we still carry in our minds the bearing of some neighboring cape; and not till we are completely lost, or turned round--for a man needs only to be turned round once with his eyes shut in this world to be lost--do we appreciate the vastness and strangeness of nature." -Henry David Thoreau
"Lo que llamamos resignación no es más que una confirmación de la desesperación." -Henry David Thoreau
"There is a certain perfection in accident which we never consciously attain." -Henry David Thoreau
"Confucius said,--'If a State is governed by the principles of reason, poverty and misery are subjects of shame; if a State is not governed by the principles of reason, riches and honors are the subjects of shame." -Henry David Thoreau
"I am affected as if in a peculiar sense I stood in the laboratory of the Artist who made the world and me. I feel as if I were nearer to the vitals of the globe. You find this in the very sands an anticipation of the vegetable leaf. No wonder the earth expresses itself outwardly in leaves, it so labors with the idea inwardly. The atoms have already learned this law, and are pregnant by it. The feathers and wings of birds are still drier and thinner leaves. The very globe continually transcends and translates itself; and becomes winged in its orbit. Even ice begins with delicate crystal leaves, as if it had flowed into moulds. The whole tree itself is but one leaf; and rivers are still vaster leaves whose pulp is intervening earth, and towns and cities are the ova of insects." -Henry David Thoreau
"My civil neighbor, the tax-gatherer, is the very man I have to deal with--for it is, after all, with men and not with parchment that I quarrel--and he has voluntarily chosen to be an agent of the government. How shall he ever know well that he is and does as an officer of the government, or as a man, until he is obliged to consider whether he will treat me, his neighbor, for whom he has respect, as a neighbor and well-disposed man, or as a maniac and disturber of the peace, and see if he can get over this obstruction to his neighborlines without a ruder and more impetuous thought or speech corresponding with his action. I know this well, that if one thousand, if one hundred, if ten men whom I could name--if ten honest men only--ay, if one HONEST man, in this State of Massachusetts, ceasing to hold slaves, were actually to withdraw from this co-partnership, and be locked up in the county jail therefor, it would be the abolition of slavery in America." -Henry David Thoreau
"Una vez se posó un gorrión sobre mi hombro durante un instante mientras escardaba en un jardín y sentí más orgullo por esa distinción que por cualquier charretera que hubiera podido colgarme" -Henry David Thoreau
"There are nine hundred and ninety-nine patrons of virtue to one virtuous man. But it is easier to deal with the real possessor of a thing than with the temporary guardian of it." -Henry David Thoreau
"Fix not thy heart on that which is transitory; for the Dijlah, or Tigris, will continue to flow through Bagdad after the race of caliphs is extinct: if thy hand has plenty, be liberal as the date tree; but if it affords nothing to give away, be an azad, or free man, like the cypress." -Henry David Thoreau
"In any weather, at any hour of the day or night, I have been anxious to improve the nick of time, to notch it on my stick too; to stand on the meeting of two eternities, the past and future, which is precisely the present moment, to toe that line." -Henry David Thoreau
"O Prince, our eyes contemplate with admiration and transmit to the soul the wonderful and varied spectacle of this universe. The night veils without doubt a part of this glorious creation; but day comes to reveal to us this great work, which extends from earth even into the plains of the ether." -Henry David Thoreau
"La nostra vera vita è quando siamo svegli nei sogni." -Henry David Thoreau
"He took a cedar shingle or splint eighteen inches long and four or five wide, rounded at one end, that the corners might not be in the way, and tied it with cedar bark by two holes made midway, near the edge on each side, to the middle crossbar of the canoe. When the canoe was lifted upon his head bottom up, this shingle, with its rounded end uppermost, distributed the weight over his shoulders and head, while a band of cedar bark, tied to the crossbar on each side of the shingle, passed round his breast, and another longer one, outside of the last, round his forehead; also a hand on each side rail served to steer the canoe and keep it from rocking. He thus carried it with his shoulders, head, breast, forehead, and both hands, as if the upper part of his body were all one hand to clasp and hold" -Henry David Thoreau
"To come all the way down to my very own revel in, my associate and I, for I sometimes have a companion, take satisfaction in fancying ourselves knights of a new, or alternatively an old, order--now not Equestrians or Chevaliers, no longer Ritters or Riders, but Walkers, a still more historic and honorable magnificence, I agree with. The chivalric and heroic spirit which as soon as belonged to the Rider appears now to are living in, or perchance to have subsided into, the Walker--not the Knight, but Walker Errant. He is a type of fourth property, outside of Church and State and People." -Henry David Thoreau
"These same questions that disturb and puzzle and confound us have in their turn occurred to all the wise men; not one has been omitted;" -Henry David Thoreau
"Acho saudável ficar sozinho a maior parte do tempo. Ter companhia, mesmo a melhor delas, logo cansa e desgasta" -Henry David Thoreau
"Moreover, I, on my side, require of every writer, first or last, a simple and sincere account of his own life, and not merely what he has heard of other men's lives; some such account as he would send to his kindred from a distant land; for if he has lived sincerely, it must have been in a distant land to me." -Henry David Thoreau
"O dia é uma síntese do ano. A noite é o inverno, a manhã e o entardecer são a primavera e o outono, e as horas ao redor do meio dia são o verão" -Henry David Thoreau
"Каждое поколение смеется над модами предыдущего, но благоговейно следует новым" -Henry David Thoreau
"THE SHIPWRECK" -Henry David Thoreau
"Every man is the builder of a temple, called his body, to the god he worships, after a style purely his own, nor can he get off by hammering marble instead. We are all sculptors and painters, and our material is our own flesh and blood and bones." -Henry David Thoreau
"Prefiero caminar entre los bosques a ser rey de alguna nación." -Henry David Thoreau
"However mean your life is, meet it and live it; do not shun it and call it hard names." -Henry David Thoreau
"I stand in awe of my body, this matter to which I am bound has become so strange to me. I fear not spirits, ghosts, of which I am one- but I fear bodies, I tremble to meet them. What is this Titan that has possession of me? Talk of mysteries! Think of our life in nature,- daily to be shown matter, to come in contact with it,- rocks, trees, wind on our cheeks! the solid earth! the actual world! the common sense! Contact! Contact! Who are we? where are we?..." -Henry David Thoreau
"Many people go fishing all of their lives without knowing that it is not fish they are after." -Henry David Thoreau
"It would be worth the while to build still more deliberately than I did, considering, for instance, what foundation a door, a window, a cellar, a garret, have in the nature of man, and perchance never raising any superstructure until we found a better reason for it than" -Henry David Thoreau
"Lidé dospěli tak daleko, že často strádají ne z nedostatku věcí potřebných, nýbrž z nedostatku věcí nadbytečných." -Henry David Thoreau
"I value and trust those w^ho love and praise my aspiration rather than my performance." -Henry David Thoreau
"I could never tell from inspecting such a load whether it belonged to a so called rich man or a poor one; the owner always seemed to be poverty-stricken. Indeed, the more you have of such things the poorer you are." -Henry David Thoreau
"Rather than Love, rather than Money, than Faith, than Fame, than Fairness, give me Truth." -Henry David Thoreau
"Thus it appears that the sweltering inhabitants of Charleston and New Orleans, of Madras and Bombay and Calcutta, drink at my well. In the morning I bathe my intellect in the stupendous and cosmogonal philosophy of the Bhagvat–Geeta, since whose composition years of the gods have elapsed, and in comparison with which our modern world and its literature seem puny and trivial; and I doubt if that philosophy is not to be referred to a previous state of existence, so remote is its sublimity from our conceptions. I lay down the book and go to my well for water, and lo! there I meet the servant of the Bramin, priest of Brahma and Vishnu and Indra, who still sits in his temple on the Ganges reading the Vedas, or dwells at the root of a tree with his crust and water jug. I meet his servant come to draw water for his master, and our buckets as it were grate together in the same well. The pure Walden water is mingled with the sacred water of the Ganges. With favoring winds it is wafted past the site of the fabulous islands of Atlantis and the Hesperides, makes the periplus of Hanno, and, floating by Ternate and Tidore and the mouth of the Persian Gulf, melts in the tropic gales of the Indian seas, and is landed in ports of which Alexander only heard the names." -Henry David Thoreau
"A single gentle rain makes the grass many shades greener. So our prospects brighten on the influx of better thoughts. We should be blessed if we lived in the present always, and took advantage of every accident that befell us, like the grass which confesses the influence of the slightest dew that falls on it; and did not spend our time in atoning for the neglect of past opportunities, which we call doing our duty." -Henry David Thoreau
"A maior parte das coisas que meus semelhantes consideram boas, creio no fundo da alma que são más, e se de alguma coisa me arrependo é provável que seja do meu bom comportamento. Que diabo se apossou de mim para que me comportasse tão bem?" -Henry David Thoreau
"For sounds in winter nights, and often in winter days, I heard the forlorn but melodious note of a hooting owl indefinitely far; such a sound as the frozen earth would yield if struck with a suitable plectrum, the very lingua vernacula of Walden Wood, and quite familiar to me at last, though I never saw the bird while it was making it. I seldom opened my door in a winter evening without hearing it;Hoo hoo hoo, hoorer, hoo, sounded sonorously, and the first three syllables accented somewhat like how der do; or sometimes hoo, hoo only." -Henry David Thoreau
"I one evening overtook one of my townsmen, who has accumulated what is called 'a handsome property'--though I never got a fair view of it--on the Walden road, driving a pair of cattle to market, who inquired of me how I could bring my mind to give up so many of the comforts of life. I answered that I was very sure I liked it passably well; I was not joking. And so I went home to my bed, and left him to pick his way through the darkness and the mud to Brighton--or Bright-town--which place he would reach some time in the morning." -Henry David Thoreau
"Même lorsque vous votez pour la justice, vous ne faites rien pour elle. Vous ne faites qu'exprimer faiblement aux hommes votre désir de la voir l'emporter. Le sage ne doit pas laisser la justice à la merci du hasard ni souhaiter qu'elle l'emporte grâce au pouvoir de la la majorité.P.13" -Henry David Thoreau
"Valamennyien szobrászok, festők vagyunk, nyersanyagunk a tulajdon testünk, húsunk és vérünk." -Henry David Thoreau
"I had withdrawn so far within the great ocean of solitude, into which the rivers of society empty, that for the most part, so far as my needs were concerned, only the finest sediment was deposited around me." -Henry David Thoreau
"Is there not a sort of blood shed when the conscience is wounded? Through this wound a man's real manhood and immortality flow out, and he bleeds to an everlasting death" -Henry David Thoreau
"I have spent many an hour, when I was younger, floating over its surface as the zephyr willed, having paddled my boat to the middle, and lying on my back across the seats, in a summer forenoon, dreaming awake, until I was aroused by the boat touching the sand, and I arose to see what shore my fates had impelled me to; days when idleness was the most attractive and productive industry. Many a forenoon have I stolen away, preferring to spend thus the most valued part of the day; for I was rich, if not in money, in sunny hours and summer days, and spent them lavishly" -Henry David Thoreau
"I should not talk so much about myself if there were any body else whom I knew as well." -Henry David Thoreau
"do not let your left hand know what your right hand does, for it is not worth knowing." -Henry David Thoreau
"Do we call this the land of the free? What is it to be free from King George and continue the slaves of King Prejudice? What is it to be born free and not to live free? What is the value of any political freedom, but as a means to moral freedom? Is it a freedom to be slaves, or a freedom to be free, of which we boast? We are a nation of politicians, concerned about the outmost defences only of freedom. It is our children's children who may perchance be really free. We tax ourselves unjustly. There is a part of us which is not represented. It is taxation without representation. We quarter troops, e quarter fools and cattle of all sorts upon ourselves. We quarter our gross bodies on our poor souls, till the former eat up all the latter's substance." -Henry David Thoreau
"There is a period in the history of the individual, as of the race, when the hunters are the 'best men,' as the Algonquins called them. We cannot but pity the boy who has never fired a gun; he is no more humane, while his education has been sadly neglected." -Henry David Thoreau
"to be a philosopher is not merely to have subtle thoughts, nor even to found a school, but so to love wisdom as to live according to its dictates, a life of simplicity, independences, magnanimity, and trust. it is to solve some of the problems of life, not only theoretically but practically. the success of great scholars and thinkers is commonly a courtier-like success, not kingly, not manly" -Henry David Thoreau
"The West of which I speak is but another name for the Wild; and what I have been preparing to say is, that in Wildness is the preservation of the World." -Henry David Thoreau
"Most men are satisfied if they read or hear read, and perchance have been convicted by the wisdom of one good book, the Bible, and for the rest of their lives vegetate and dissipate their faculties in what is called easy reading." -Henry David Thoreau
"The only government that I recognize,--and it matters not how few are at the head of it, or how small its army,--is that power that establishes justice in the land, never that which establishes injustice." -Henry David Thoreau
"A solidão não se mede pelos quilômetros que se interpõem entre o homem e seus semelhantes. O estudante realmente esforçado [...] de Cambridge é tão solitário quanto um dervixe no deserto. O agricultor pode trabalhar sozinho no campo ou na mata o dia inteiro [...], sem se sentir solitário porque está em atividade; mas quando volta pra casa à noite, não consegue ficar sentado num quarto sozinho, entregue a seus pensamentos, mas tem de ir a algum lugar onde possa 'ver gente' e se divertir para compensar, julga ele, a solidão do dia; por isso pergunta-se como o estudante consegue ficar sozinho em casa a noite toda e grande parte do dia sem sentir tédio nem 'fossa', mas ele não percebe que o estudante, embora em casa, ainda está trabalhando em seu campo, cortando lenha em sua mata, como o agricultor na dele, e por sua vez procura a mesma companhia e diversão que este procura, embora talvez de forma mais condensada." -Henry David Thoreau
"the poem of the world is uninterrupted, but few are the ears that hear it." -Henry David Thoreau
"Most of the luxuries, and many of the so-called comforts of life, are not only not indispensable, but positive hindrances to the elevation of mankind. With respect to luxuries and comforts, the wisest have ever lived a more simple and meagre life than the poor." -Henry David Thoreau
"Is it not a reproach that man is a carnivorous animal? True, he can and does live, in a great measure, by preying on other animals; but this is a miserable way -- as any one who will go to snaring rabbits, or slaughtering lambs, may learn -- and he will be regarded as a benefactor of his race who shall teach man to confine himself to a more innocent and wholesome diet. Whatever my own practice may be, I have no doubt that it is a part of the destiny of the human race, in its gradual improvement, to leave off eating animals, as surely as the savage tribes have left off eating each other when they came in contact with the more civilized." -Henry David Thoreau
"To be awake is to be alive. I have never yet met a man who was quite awake. How could I have looked him in the face? We must learn to reawaken and keep ourselves awake, not by mechanical aids, but by an infinite expectation of the dawn, which does not forsake us in our soundest sleep." -Henry David Thoreau
"Must the citizen ever for a moment, or in the least degree, resign his conscience to the legislator? Why has every man a conscience, then?" -Henry David Thoreau
"Our whole life is startlingly moral. There is never an instant's truce between virtue and vice." -Henry David Thoreau
"the natural remedy is to be found in the proportion which the night bears to the day," -Henry David Thoreau
"Even the little variety which I used was a yielding to the demands of appetite, and not of health. Yet men have come to such a pass that they frequently starve, not for want of necessaries, but for want of luxuries." -Henry David Thoreau
"Jamais il n'y aura d'État vraiment libre et éclairé, tant que l'État n'en viendra pas à reconnaître à l'individu un pouvoir supérieur et indépendant d'où découlerait tout le pouvoir et l'autorité d'un gouvernement prêt à traiter l'individu en conséquence." -Henry David Thoreau
"Those things for which the most money is demanded are never the things which the student most wants. Tuition, for instance, is an important item in the term bill, while for the far more valuable education which he gets by associating with the most cultivated of his contemporaries no charge is made. The" -Henry David Thoreau
"El efecto de un buen gobierno es hacer que la vida tenga más valor, el de una mal gobierno, que tenga menos valor Podemos permitirnos que el ferrocarril y todo lo meramente material se devalúe, porque ello nos lleva únicamente a vivir de formar más sencilla y económica, pero imaginad que se devaluara la propia vida." -Henry David Thoreau
"It's not what you look at that matters, its what you see" -Henry David Thoreau
"De noite, é claro, a perplexidade é infinitamente maior. Nas nossas andanças mais triviais, estamos constantemente, embora sem consciência disso, a orientar-nos como pilotos por certos faróis e promontórios conhecidos, e se ultrapassamos a rota do costume, continuamos a levar na mente a situação de algum cabo próximo; e só quando estamos completamente perdidos, ou quando damos a volta em torno- (...) é que apreciamos a vastidão e singularidade da Natureza. Sempre que de novo acorde, seja do sono ou de alguma abstração, o homem tem de voltar a aprender os pontos cardeais. A não ser quando nos perdemos, ou melhor, quando perdemos o mundo, é que começamos a descobrir-nos, percebendo onde estamos e o infinito alcance das nossas relações." -Henry David Thoreau
"The Common Perch, _Perca flavescens_, which name describes well the gleaming, golden reflections of its scales as it is drawn out of the water, its red gills standing out in vain in the thin element, is one of the handsomest and most regularly formed of our fishes, and at such a moment as this reminds us of the fish in the picture which wished to be restored to its native element until it had grown larger; and indeed most of this species that are caught are not half grown. In the ponds there is a light-colored and slender kind, which swim in shoals of many hundreds in the sunny water, in company with the shiner, averaging not more than six or seven inches in length, while only a few larger specimens are found in the deepest water, which prey upon their weaker brethren. I have often attracted these small perch to the shore at evening, by rippling the water with my fingers, and they may sometimes be caught while attempting to pass inside your hands. It is a tough and heedless fish, biting from impulse, without nibbling, and from impulse refraining to bite, and sculling indifferently past. It rather prefers the clear water and sandy bottoms, though here it has not much choice. It is a true fish, such as the angler loves to put into his basket or hang at the top of his willow twig, in shady afternoons along the banks of the stream. So many unquestionable fishes he counts, and so many shiners, which he counts and then throws away. Old Josselyn in his 'New England's Rarities,' published in 1672, mentions the Perch or River Partridge." -Henry David Thoreau
"All voting is a sort of gaming, like checkers or backgammon, with a slight moral tinge to it, a playing with right and wrong, with moral questions; and betting naturally accompanies it. The character of the voters is not staked. I cast my vote, perchance, as I think right; but I am not vitally concerned that that right should prevail. I am willing to leave it to the majority. Its obligation, therefore, never exceeds that of expediency." -Henry David Thoreau
"I see young men, my townsmen, whose misfortune it is to have inherited farms, houses, barns, cattle, and farming tools; for these are more easily acquired than got rid of. Better if they had been born in the open pasture and suckled by a wolf, that they might have seen with clearer eyes what field they were called to labor in." -Henry David Thoreau
"They who are at work abroad are not cold, but rather it is they who sit shivering in houses." -Henry David Thoreau
"What should we think of the shepherd's life if his flocks always wandered to higher pastures than his thoughts?" -Henry David Thoreau
"I have frequently seen a poet withdraw, having enjoyed the most valuable part of a farm, while the crusty farmer supposed that he had got a few wild apples only. Why, the owner does not know it for many years when a poet has put his farm in rhyme, the most admirable kind of invisible fence, has fairly impounded it, milked it, skimmed it, and got all the cream, and left the farmer only the skimmed milk." -Henry David Thoreau
"In a pleasant spring morning all men's sins are forgiven." -Henry David Thoreau
"Others, craven-hearted, said disparagingly, that 'he threw his life away,' because he resisted the government. Which way have they thrown their lives, pray?--Such" -Henry David Thoreau
"Das Wahlergebnis ist daher nie mehr als eine Zweckmäßigkeit. Selbst für das Rechte zu stimmen bedeutet nichts dafür zu tun. Es zeigt anderen Gegenüber nur den schwachen Wunsch, dass es vorherrschen möge.Ein weiser Mann wird das Rechte nicht der Gnade des Zufalls überlassen. Noch wird er wünschen, dass es sich durch die Kraft der Mehrheit durchsetzt. Es ist nur wenig Tugend in der Handlung der Vielen. [...] Nur dessen Stimme kann die Abschaffung der Sklaverei beschleunigen, der seine eigene Freiheit dafür auf's Spiel setzt." -Henry David Thoreau
"The Golden Age was first created, which without any avenger Spontaneously without law cherished fidelity and rectitude. Punishment and fear were not; nor were threatening words read On suspended brass; nor did the suppliant crowd fear The words of their judge; but were safe without an avenger. Not yet the pine felled on its mountains had descended To the liquid waves that it might see a foreign world, And mortals knew no shores but their own. There was eternal spring, and placid zephyrs with warm Blasts soothed the flowers born without seed." -Henry David Thoreau
"I heartily accept the motto, -- 'That government is best which governs least'; and I should like to see it acted up to more rapidly and systematically." -Henry David Thoreau
"La massa degli uomini conduce una vita di quieta disperazione; quella che si chiama rassegnazione è disperazione istituzionalizzata." -Henry David Thoreau
"If a man has faith, he will co-operate with equal faith everywhere; if he has not faith, he will continue to live like the rest of the world, whatever company he is joined to." -Henry David Thoreau
"Fishermen, hunters, woodchoppers, and others, spending their lives in the fields and woods, in a peculiar sense a part of Nature themselves, are often in a more favorable mood for observing her, in the intervals of their pursuits, than philosophers or poets even, who approach her with expectation." -Henry David Thoreau
"There are none happy in the world but beings who enjoy freely a vast horizon," -Henry David Thoreau
"Some would find fault with the morning-red, if they ever got up early enough." -Henry David Thoreau
"All change is a miracle to contemplate; but it is a miracle which is taking place every instant. Confucius" -Henry David Thoreau
"Нам внушают преувеличенное понятие о важности нашей работы, а между тем, как много мы оставляем несделанным!" -Henry David Thoreau
"The question is not what you look at…but what you see" -Henry David Thoreau
"Persino in questo paese relativamente libero, gli uomini, nella maggior parte (per pura ignoranza ed errore), sono così presi dalle false preoccupazioni e dai più superflui e grossolani lavori per la vita, che non possono cogliere i frutti più saporiti che questa offre loro: le fatiche eccessive cui si sottopongono hanno reso le loro dita impacciate e tremanti. In effetti, un uomo che lavora duramente non ha abbastanza tempo per conservare giorno per giorno la propria vera integrità: non può permettersi di mantenere con gli altri uomini i più nobili rapporti, perché il suo lavoro sarebbe deprezzato sul mercato; ha tempo solo per essere una macchina […]. Io mi aguzzai la vista con l'esperienza, e così mi appare evidente che la maggior parte di voi conduce una vita meschina e abbietta: siete sempre in bilico, tentando di entrare in affari e insieme di tirarvi fuori dai debiti […] vivendo, morendo, venendo sepolti sempre per mezzo di questo bronzo altrui; promettendo sempre 'pagherò', ripetendo 'domani pagherò' e morendo oggi, insolventi; tentando di ottenere favori e credito in tutti i modi possibili (scartando solo quelli che implichino rischio di galera) cioè con la menzogna, la piaggeria, il voto […] arrivando ad ammalarvi per mettere da parte qualcosa per quando sarete ammalati […]. Talvolta mi meraviglio che si possa essere tanto superficiali, per così dire, da applicarsi a quella volgare ma piuttosto straniera forma di servitù chiamata Schiavismo Negro, quando vi sono padroni così astuti e così scaltri che riescono a tenere schiavi Nord e Sud […] ma la cosa peggiore, è essere negrieri di se stessi." -Henry David Thoreau
"I had gone down to the woods for other purposes. But, wherever a man goes, men will pursue and paw him with their dirty institutions, and, if they can, constrain him to belong to their desperate odd-fellow society." -Henry David Thoreau
"Time is but the stream I go a-fishing in." -Henry David Thoreau
"Talk of heaven! ye disgrace earth." -Henry David Thoreau
"Who ever saw his old clothes, -- his old coat, actually worn out, resolved into its primitive elements, so that it was not a deed of charity to bestow it on some poor boy, by him perchance to be bestowed on some poorer still, or shall we say richer, who could do with less?" -Henry David Thoreau
"What is called resignation is confirmed desperation." -Henry David Thoreau
"I had three pieces of limestone on my desk, but I was terrified to find that they required to be dusted daily, when the furniture of my mind was all undusted still." -Henry David Thoreau
"The better part of the man is soon plowed into the soil for compost." -Henry David Thoreau
"What men call social virtues, good fellowship, is commonly but the virtue of pigs in a litter, which lie close together to keep each other warm." -Henry David Thoreau
"The morning win forever blows, the poem of creation is uninterrupted; but few are the ears that hear it." -Henry David Thoreau
"Nov. 2, 1837. Truth strikes us from behind, and in the dark, as well as from before and in broad daylight." -Henry David Thoreau
"Many man had started a new era in their lives by reading a book" -Henry David Thoreau
"There was such a repose and quiet here at this hour, as if the very hill-sides were enjoying the scene, and as we passed slowly along, looking back over the country we had traversed, and listening to the evening song of the robin, we could not help contrasting the equanimity of nature with the bustle and impatience of man. His words and actions presume always a crises near at hand, but she is forever silent and unpretending.' - A Walk to Wachusett" -Henry David Thoreau
"Go confidently in the direction of your dreams! Live the life you've imagined. As you simplify your life, the laws of the universe will be simpler." -Henry David Thoreau
"For I believe that climate does thus react on man--as there is something in the mountain air that feeds the spirit and inspires. Will not man grow to greater perfection intellectually as well as physically under these influences? Or is it unimportant how many foggy days there are in his life? I trust that we shall be more imaginative, that our thoughts will be clearer, fresher, and more ethereal, as our sky--our understanding more comprehensive and broader, like our plains--our intellect generally on a grander scale, like our thunder and lightning, our rivers and mountains and forests-and our hearts shall even correspond in breadth and depth and grandeur to our inland seas." -Henry David Thoreau
"By the blushes of Aurora and the music of Memnon, what should be man's morning work in this world?" -Henry David Thoreau
"It is no dream of mine, To ornament a line; I cannot come nearer to God and Heaven Than I live to Walden even. I am its stony shore, And the breeze that passes o'er; In the hollow of my hand Are its water and its sand, And its deepest resort Lies high in my thought." -Henry David Thoreau
"I rejoice that there are owls. Let them do the idiotic and maniacal hooting for men. It" -Henry David Thoreau
"Let us consider the way in which we spend our lives." -Henry David Thoreau
"? If a man who has no property refuses but once to earn nine shillings for the State, he is put in prison for a period unlimited by any law that I know, and determined only by the discretion of those who put him there; but if he should steal ninety" -Henry David Thoreau
"but a goose is a goose still," -Henry David Thoreau
"Poetry ~~ No definition of poetry is adequate unless it be poetry itself. The most accurate analysis by the rarest wisdom is yet insufficient, and the poet will instantly prove it false by setting aside its requistions. It is indeed all that we do not know. The poet does not need to see how meadows are something else than earth, grass, and water, but how they are thus much. He does not need discover that potato blows are as beautiful as violets, as the farmer thinks, but only how good potato blows are. The poem is drawn out from under the feet of the poet, his whole weight has rested on this ground. It has a logic more severe than the logician's. You might as well think to go in pursuit of the rainbow, and embrace it on the next hill, as to embrace the whole of poetry even in thought." -Henry David Thoreau
"Dichoso es el hombre al que cada día se le permite contemplar algo tan puro y sereno como el cielo de poniente a la puesta de Sol, mientras las revoluciones irritan el mundo" -Henry David Thoreau
"Things do not change. We change." -Henry David Thoreau
"Most men are satisfied if they read or hear read, and perchance have been convicted by the wisdom of one good book, the Bible, and for the rest of their lives vegetate and dissipate their faculties in what is called easy reading" -Henry David Thoreau
"If you are afflicted with melancholy at this season, go to the swamp and see the brave spears of skunk-cabbage buds already advanced toward a new year. Their gravestones are not bespoken yet. Who shall be sexton to them? Is it the winter of their discontent? Do they seem to have lain down to die, despairing of their skunk-cabbagedom? 'Up and at 'em,' 'Give it to 'em,' 'Excelsior,' 'Put it through,' –these are their mottoes. Mortal human creatures must take a little respite in this fall of the year; their spirits do flag a little. There is a little questioning of destiny, and thinking to go like cowards to where the 'weary shall be at rest.' But not so with skunk-cabbage. Its withered leaves fall and are transfixed by a rising bud. Winter and death are ignored; the circle of life is complete. Are these false prophets? Is it a lie or a vain boast underneath the skunk-cabbage bud, pushing it upward and lifting the dead leaves with it? They rest with spears advanced; they rest to shoot! I say it is good for me to be here, slumping in the mud, a trap covered with withered leaves. See those green cabbage buds lifting the dry leaves in that watery and muddy place. There is no can't nor cant to them. They see over the brow of winter's hill. They see another summer ahead." -Henry David Thoreau
"I do not speak to those who are well employed, in whatever circumstances, and they know whether they are well employed or not;--but mainly to the mass of men who are discontented, and idly complaining of the hardness of their lot or of the times, when they might improve them." -Henry David Thoreau
"Günümüzde yalnızca yaşamaya değil, formlar doldurmaya, bürokrasiye, gereksiz ayrıntılara çok fazla zaman ve enerji harcıyoruz. Oysaki hayatın genel olarak sadeleştirilmesi hedeflenmelidir. Thoreau'nun deyimiyle: 'Sadelik! Sadelik! Sadelik!' Varoluşumuzun özüyle ilgisi olmayan şeyler için değerli zamanımızı, hayatımızı inanılmaz derecede israf ediyoruz. Ne zaman daha fazlasını istemekle sadelik arasında seçim yapmamız gerekirse ikincisini seçmek daha doğru bir yol olacaktır. Bu anlamda Thoreau'nun yaşam tecrübesiyle de göstermeye çabaladığı gibi insanın ihtiyacı olanın içinde geldiği doğaya ölçülülükle yaklaşma erdemini gösterebilmek olduğunu söylemek yanlış olmayacaktır." -Henry David Thoreau
"People wish to be settled; only as far as they are unsettled is there any hope for them." -Henry David Thoreau
"I one evening overtook one of my townsmen, who has accumulated what is called 'a handsome property'..on the Walden road, driving a pair of cattle to market, who inquired of me how I could bring my mind to give up so many of the comforts of life. I answered that I was very sure I liked it passably well; I was not joking. And so I went home to my bed, and left him to pick his way through the darkness and the mud to Brighton, which place he would reach some time in the morning." -Henry David Thoreau
"I went to the woods because I wished to live deliberately." -Henry David Thoreau
"To use an obsolete Latin word, I might say, Ex Oriente lux; ex Occidente FRUX. From the East light; from the West fruit." -Henry David Thoreau
"Quem percebe o verdadeiro sabor do alimento nunca será um glutão; quem não o percebe não pode deixar de sê-lo" -Henry David Thoreau
"know one or two families, at least, in this town, who, for nearly a generation, have been wishing to sell their houses in the outskirts and move into the village, but have not been able to accomplish it, and only death will set them free." -Henry David Thoreau
"find it labor enough to subdue and cultivate a few cubic feet of flesh." -Henry David Thoreau
"When the play, it may be the tragedy, of life is over, the spectator goes his way." -Henry David Thoreau
"Le gouvernement le meilleur est celui qui gouverne le moins" -Henry David Thoreau
"La meta de un buen gobierno es darle más valor a la vida; la de un mal gobierno, restarle valor." -Henry David Thoreau
"be a Columbus to whole new continents and worlds within you, opening new channels, not of trade, but of thought." -Henry David Thoreau
"At the same time that we are earnest to explore and learn all things, we require that all things be mysterious and unexplorable, that land and sea be infinitely wild, unsurveyed and unfathomed by us because unfathomable. We can never have enough of Nature. We must be refreshed by the sight of inexhaustible vigor, vast and Titanic, features, the sea-cost with its wrecks, the wilderness…the thunder cloud, and the rain which lasts three weeks. We need to witness our own limits transgressed, and some life pasturing freely where we never wander." -Henry David Thoreau
"if one advances confidently in the direction of his dreams, and endeavors to live the life which he has imagined, he will meet with a success unexpected in common hours." -Henry David Thoreau
"If you have built castles in the air, your work need not to be lost; that is where they should be. Now put the foundations under them." -Henry David Thoreau
"I have no doubt that it is a part of the destiny of the human race, in its gradual improvement, to leave off eating animals, as surely as the savage tribes have left off eating each other when they came in contact with the more civilized." -Henry David Thoreau
"We walked in so pure and bright a light, gilding the withered grass and leaves, so softly and serenely bright, I thought I had never bathed in such a golden flood, without a ripple or a murmur to it. The west side of every wood and rising ground gleamed like the boundary of Elysium, and the sun on our backs seemed like a gentle herdsman driving us home at evening. So we saunter toward the Holy Land, till one day the sun shall shine more brightly than ever he has done, shall perchance shine into our minds and hearts, and light up our whole lives with a great awakening light, as warm and serene and golden as on a bankside in autumn." -Henry David Thoreau
"Je souhaiterais rappeler à mes compatriotes qu'il sont avant tout des hommes, et qu'ils ne sont des Américains qu'en second lieu. Qu'importe une loi qui protège vos biens et qui préserve votre âme et votre corps, si elle ne vous maintient pas dans les rangs du genre humain." -Henry David Thoreau
"It appears, therefore, from the above list, that the expression, animal life, is nearly synonymous with the expression, animal heat; for while Food may be regarded as the Fuel which keeps up the fire within us--and Fuel serves only to prepare that Food or to increase the warmth of our bodies by addition from without--Shelter and Clothing also serve only to retain the heat thus generated and absorbed." -Henry David Thoreau
"A single gentle rain makes the grass many shades greener. So our prospects brighten on the influx of better thoughts. We should be blessed if we lived in the present always, and took advantage of every accident that befell us, like the grass which confesses the influence of the slightest dew that falls on it; and did not spend our time in atoning for the neglect of past opportunities, which we call doing our duty. We loiter in winter while it is already spring. In a pleasant spring morning all men's sins are forgiven. Such a day is a truce to vice." -Henry David Thoreau
"I would fain keep sober always; and there are infinite degrees of drunkenness." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is never the deed men praise, but some marble or canvas, which are only a staging to the real work. The hugest and most effective deed may have no sensible result at all on earth, but may paint itself in the heavens with new stars and constellations. When in rare moments our whole being strives with one consent, which we name a yearning, we may not hope that our work will stand in any artist's gallery on earth." -Henry David Thoreau
"Life consists with wildness. The most alive is the wildest. Not yet subdued to man, its presence refreshes him." -Henry David Thoreau
"L'opinione pubblica è un tiranno assai debole, paragonata alla nostra opinione personale. Ciò che determina o piuttosto indica il fato di un uomo è l'opinione che egli ha di se stesso." -Henry David Thoreau
"O for a man who is a man, and, as my neighbor says, has a bone in his back which you cannot pass your hand through!" -Henry David Thoreau
"Људи кажу да многе ствари знају, А гле! крила имају, Уметности и науке, Многобројне алатке;А све што ико знаЈесте да ветар дува." -Henry David Thoreau
"Prchavá pravda našich slov by mala neustále prezradzovať nedostatočnosť toho, čo ešte obsahoval náš príhovor." -Henry David Thoreau
"There were times when I could not afford to sacrifice the bloom of the present moment to any work, whether of the head or hands. I love a broad margin to my life. Sometimes, in a summer morning, having taken my accustomed bath, I sat in my sunny doorway from sunrise till noon, rapt in a revery, amidst the pines and hickories and sumachs, in undisturbed solitude and stillness, while the birds sing around or flitted noiseless through the house, until by the sun falling in at my west window, or the noise of some traveller's wagon on the distant highway, I was reminded of the lapse of time. I grew in those seasons like corn in the night, and they were far better than any work of the hands would have been. They were not time subtracted from my life, but so much over and above my usual allowance. I realized what the Orientals mean by contemplation and the forsaking of works. For the most part, I minded not how the hours went. The day advanced as if to light some work of mine; it was morning, and lo, now it is evening, and nothing memorable is accomplished. Instead of singing like the birds, I silently smiled at my incessant good fortune. As the sparrow had its trill, sitting on the hickory before my door, so had I my chuckle or suppressed warble which he might hear out of my nest. My days were not days of the week, bearing the stamp of any heathen deity, nor were they minced into hours and fretted by the ticking of a clock; for I lived like the Puri Indians, of whom it is said that 'for yesterday, today, and tomorrow they have only one word, and they express the variety of meaning by pointing backward for yesterday forward for tomorrow, and overhead for the passing day.' This was sheer idleness to my fellow-townsmen, no doubt; but if the birds and flowers had tried me by their standard, I should not have been found wanting." -Henry David Thoreau
"the conductor shouts 'All aboard!' when the smoke is blown away and the vapor condensed, it will be perceived that a few are riding, but the rest are run over--and it will be called, and will be, 'A melancholy accident." -Henry David Thoreau
"Shams and delusions are esteemed for soundest truths, while reality is fabulous. If men would steadily observe realities only, and not allow themselves to be deluded, life, to compare it with such things as we know, would be like a fairy tale" -Henry David Thoreau
"To be a philosopher is not merely to have subtle thoughts, nor even to found a school, but so to love wisdom as to live according to its dictates, a life of simplicity, independence, magnanimity, and trust." -Henry David Thoreau
"Success usually comes to those who are too busy looking for it." -Henry David Thoreau
"to stand on the meeting of two eternities, the past and future, which is precisely the present moment; to toe that line." -Henry David Thoreau
"This is the only way, we say; but there are as many ways as there can be drawn radii from one centre. . . . When one man has reduced a fact of the imagination to be a fact to his understanding, I foresee that all men will at length establish their lives on that basis." -Henry David Thoreau
"With unrelaxed nerves, with morning vigor, sail by it, looking another way, tied to the mast like Ulysses." -Henry David Thoreau
"so long as the interest of the whole society requires it, that is, so long as the established government cannot be resisted or changed without public inconvenience, it is the will of God … that the established government be obeyed--and no longer. This principle being admitted, the justice of every particular case of resistance is reduced to a computation of the quantity of the danger and grievance on the one side, and of the probability and expense of redressing it on the other." -Henry David Thoreau
"things do not change, we change." -Henry David Thoreau
"What was the meaning of that South-Sea Exploring Expedition, with all its parade and expense, but an indirect recognition of the fact that there are continents and seas in the moral world to which every man is an isthmus or an inlet, yet unexplored by him, but that it is easier to sail many thousand miles through cold and storm and cannibals, in a government ship, with five hundred men and boys to assist one, than it is to explore the private sea, the Atlantic and Pacific Ocean of one's being alone." -Henry David Thoreau
"They make shift to live merely by conformity." -Henry David Thoreau
"it behooves us old stagers to keep our lamps trimmed and burning to the last, and not trust to the sun's looming.Thoreau, Henry David. The Complete Works of Henry David Thoreau: Canoeing in the Wilderness, Walden, Walking, Civil Disobedience and More (Kindle Locations 12226-12227). . Kindle Edition." -Henry David Thoreau
"Innan vi kan pryda våra hus med vackra föremål måste väggarna plockas rena, våra liv rensas ut, därefter kan vi börja med ett gott hushåll och ett vackert liv från grunden;som det är nu odlas smaken för det sköna bäst utomhus, där det varken finns hus eller hushåll" -Henry David Thoreau
"Books are the treasured wealth of the world." -Henry David Thoreau
"Seria ótimo, quem sabe, se pudéssemos passar um pouco mais dos dias e das noites sem nenhum obstáculo entre nós e os corpos celestes, se o poeta não falasse tanto à sombra de um telhado ou o santo não morasse entre quatro paredes por tanto tempo. As aves não cantam dentro das grutas, nem as pombas cuidam de sua inocência nos pombais." -Henry David Thoreau
"انگاری می‌شود زمان را کشت و ابدیت را زخمی نکرد" -Henry David Thoreau
"Per la maggior parte, noi siamo più soli quando usciamo tra gli uomini che quando restiamo in camera nostra. Un uomo che pensi o lavori è sempre solo – lasciatelo stare dove vuole. La solitudine non è misurata dalle miglia di distanza che si frappongono fra un uomo e il suo prossimo" -Henry David Thoreau
"The mass of men lead lives of quiet desperation. What is called resignation is confirmed desperation. From the desperate city you go into the desperate country, and have to console yourself with the bravery of minks and muskrats." -Henry David Thoreau
"We talk about a  government; but what a monster is that where the noblest faculties of the mind, and the  heart, are not represented." -Henry David Thoreau
"What is it to be born free and not to live free? What is the value of any political freedom, but as a means to moral freedom? Is it a freedom to be slaves, or a freedom to be free, of which we boast?" -Henry David Thoreau
"To affect the quality of the day... that is the art of life." -Henry David Thoreau
"My residence was more favorable, not only to thought, but to serious reading, than a university;" -Henry David Thoreau
"if one advances confidently in the direction of his dreams, and endeavors to live the life which he has imagined, he will meet with a success unexpected in common hours. He will put some things behind, will pass an invisible boundary; new, universal, and more liberal laws will begin to establish themselves around and within him; or the old laws be expanded, and interpreted in his favor in a more liberal sense, and he will live with the license of a higher order of beings. In proportion as he simplifies his life, the laws of the universe will appear less complex, and solitude will not be solitude, nor poverty poverty, nor weakness weakness. If you have built castles in the air, your work need not be lost; that is where they should be. Now put the foundations under them." -Henry David Thoreau
"To be awake is to be alive. I have never yet met a man who was quite awake. how could I have ever looked him in the face?...we must learn to reawaken and keep ourselves awake, not by mechanical aids, but by an infinite expectation of the dawn, which does not forsake us in our soundest sleep. I know of no more encouraging fact than the unquestionable ability of man to elevate his life by a conscious endeavor. It is something to be able to paint a particular picture, or to carve a statue, and so to make a few objects beautiful; but it is far more glorious to carve and paint the very atmosphere and medium through which we look. every man is tasked to make his life, even in its details, worthy of the contemplation of his most elevated and critical hour." -Henry David Thoreau
"I did not read books that first summer; I hoed beans. Nay, I often did better than this. there were times when I could not afford to sacrifice the bloom of the present moment to any work, whether of the head or hands. I love a broad margin to my life. sometimes, in a summer morning, having taken my accustomed bath, I sat in my sunny doorway from sunrise till noon, rapt in a revery, amidst the pines and hickories and sumachs, in undisturbed solitude and stillness, while the birds sand around or flitted noiselessly through the house.. I grew in these seasons like corn in the night…they were not time subtracted from my life, but so much over and above my usual allowance." -Henry David Thoreau
"me, but spectator, sharing no experience, but taking note of it, and that is no more I than it is you. When the play, it may be the tragedy, of life is over, the spectator goes his way. It was a kind of fiction, a work of the imagination only, so far as he was concerned. This doubleness may easily make us poor neighbors and friends sometimes." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is never too late to give up our prejudices. No way of thinking or doing, however ancient, can be trusted without proof." -Henry David Thoreau
"The morning wind forever blows, the poem of creation is uninterrupted;" -Henry David Thoreau
"To read well, that is, to read true books in a true spirit, is a noble exercise, and one that will task the reader more than any exercise which the customs of the day esteem. It requires a training such as the athletes underwent, the steady intention almost of the whole life to this object. Books must be read as deliberately and reservedly as they were written." -Henry David Thoreau
"the devil finds employment for the idle --" -Henry David Thoreau
"I desire that there may be as many different persons in the world as possible; but I would have each one, be very careful to find out and pursue his own way, and not his father's or his mother's or his neighbor's instead." -Henry David Thoreau
"While I enjoy the friendship of the seasons I trust that nothing can make life a burden to me." -Henry David Thoreau
"La mayoría de los hombres lleva vidas de tranquila desesperación. Lo que se llama resignación es desesperación confirmada." -Henry David Thoreau
"We are acquainted with a mere pellicle of the globe on which we live. Most have not delved six feet beneath the surface, nor leaped as many above it. We know not where we are. Beside, we are sound asleep nearly half our time. Yet we esteem ourselves wise, and have an established order on the surface. Truly, we are deep thinkers, we are ambitious spirits! As I stand over the insect crawling amid the pine needles on the forest floor, and endeavoring to conceal itself from my sight, and ask myself why it will cherish those humble thoughts, and hide its head from me who might, perhaps, be its benefactor, and impart to its race some cheering information, I am reminded of the greater Benefactor and Intelligence that stands over me the human insect." -Henry David Thoreau
"Shall we always study to obtain more of these things, and not sometimes to be content with less? Shall the respectable citizen thus gravely teach, by precept and example, the necessity of the young man's providing a certain number of superfluous glow-shoes, and umbrellas, and empty guest chambers for empty guests, before he dies? Why should not our furniture be as simple as the Arab's or the Indian's? When I think of the benefactors of the race, whom we have apotheosized as messengers from heaven, bearers of divine gifts to man, I do not see in my mind any retinue at their heels, any carload of fashionable furniture. Or what if I were to allow--would it not be a singular allowance?--that our furniture should be more complex than the Arab's, in proportion as we are morally and intellectually his superiors! At present our houses are cluttered and defiled with it, and a good housewife would sweep out the greater part into the dust hole, and not leave her morning's work undone. Morning work! By the blushes of Aurora and the music of Memnon, what should be man's morning work in this world? I had three pieces of limestone on my desk, but I was terrified to find that they required to be dusted daily, when the furniture of my mind was all undusted still, and threw them out the window in disgust. How, then, could I have a furnished house? I would rather sit in the open air, for no dust gathers on the grass, unless where man has broken ground." -Henry David Thoreau
"In proportion as he simplifies his life, the laws of the universe will appear less complex, and solitude will not be solitude, nor poverty poverty, nor weakness weakness. If you have built castles in the air, your work need not be lost; that is where they should be. Now put foundations under them." -Henry David Thoreau
"However mean your life is, meet it and live it; do not shun it and call it hard names. It is not so bad as you are. It looks poorest when you are richest. The fault-finder will find faults even in paradise. Love your life, poor as it is." -Henry David Thoreau
"The stove not only took up room and scented the house, but it concealed the fire, and I felt as if I had lost a companion. You can always see a face in the fire." -Henry David Thoreau
"Every child begins the world again, to some extent, and loves to stay outdoors, even in wet and cold. It plays house, as well as horse, having an instinct for it. Who does not remember the interest with which, when young, he looked at shelving rocks, or any approach to a cave? It was the natural yearning of that portion, any portion of our most primitive ancestor which still survived in us. From the cave we have advanced to roofs of palm leaves, of bark and boughs, of linen woven and stretched, of grass and straw, of boards and shingles, of stones and tiles. At last, we know not what it is to live in the open air, and our lives are domestic in more senses than we think." -Henry David Thoreau
"We must learn to reawaken and keep ourselves awake, not by mechanical aid, but by an infinite expectation of the dawn." -Henry David Thoreau
"I learned this, at least, by my experiment; that if one advances confidently in the direction of his dreams, and endeavors to live the life which he has imagined, he will meet with a success unexpected in common hours. He will put some things behind, will pass an invisible boundary; new, universal, and more liberal laws will begin to establish themselves around and within him; or the old laws be expanded, and interpreted in his favor in a more liberal sense, and he will live with the license of a higher order of beings. In proportion as he simplifies his life, the laws of the universe will appear less complex, and solitude will not be solitude, nor poverty poverty, nor weakness weakness. If you have built castles in the air, your work need not be lost; that is where they should be. Now put the foundations under them." -Henry David Thoreau
"How can you expect the birds to sing when their groves are cut down?" -Henry David Thoreau
"So easy is it, though many housekeepers doubt it, to establish new and better customs in the place of the old. You need not rest your reputation on the dinners you give." -Henry David Thoreau
"Když do sebe se zhloubi zahledíš,bezpočet krajin uvidíš –leč neobjevených. Nu, projdi jea staň se znalcem vlastní kosmografie!" -Henry David Thoreau
"If you are afflicted with melancholy at this season, go to the swamp and see the brave spears of skunk-cabbage buds already advanced toward a new year. Their gravestones are not bespoken yet. Who shall be sexton to them? Is it the winter of their discontent? Do they seem to have lain down to die, despairing of their skunk-cabbagedom? 'Up and at 'em,' 'Give it to 'em,' 'Excelsior,' 'Put it through,' –these are their mottoes.Mortal human creatures must take a little respite in this fall of the year; their spirits do flag a little. There is a little questioning of destiny, and thinking to go like cowards to where the 'weary shall be at rest.' But not so with skunk-cabbage. Its withered leaves fall and are transfixed by a rising bud. Winter and death are ignored; the circle of life is complete.Are these false prophets? Is it a lie or a vain boast underneath the skunk-cabbage bud, pushing it upward and lifting the dead leaves with it? They rest with spears advanced; they rest to shoot! I say it is good for me to be here, slumping in the mud, a trap covered with withered leaves. See those green cabbage buds lifting the dry leaves in that watery and muddy place. There is no can't nor cant to them. They see over the brow of winter's hill. They see another summer ahead.(October 31, 1857)" -Henry David Thoreau
"A man is not his hope, nor his despair, nor yet his past deed. We know not yet what we have done, still less what we are doing. Wait till evening, and other parts of our day's work will shine than we had thought at noon, and we shall discover the real purport of our toil. As when the farmer has reached the end of the furrow and looks back, he can tell best where the pressed earth shines most." -Henry David Thoreau
"This American government,- what is it but a tradition, though a recent one, endeavoring to transmit itself unimpaired to posterity, but each instant losing some of its integrity? It has not the vitality and force of a single living man; for a single man can bend it to his will." -Henry David Thoreau
"Nations are possessed with an insane ambition to perpetuate the memory of themselves by the amount of hammered stone they leave. What if equal pains were taken to smooth and polish their manners?" -Henry David Thoreau
"Such is beauty ever. Neither here nor there, now nor then.Neither in Rome, nor in Athens.But, wherever there is a soul to admire.If I seek her elsewhere because I do not find her at home, my search will prove a fruitless one." -Henry David Thoreau
"It is difficult to being without borrowing, but perhaps it is the most generous course thus to permit your fellow-men to have an interest in your enterprise." -Henry David Thoreau
"Wir müssen lernen, wieder wach zu werden. und uns wach zu erhalten, nicht durch mechanische Mittel, sondern durch das unaufhörliche Erwarten des Sonnenaufgangs, welches uns nicht verlassen darf im tiefsten Schlaf" -Henry David Thoreau
"I never found the companion that was so companionable as solitude" -Henry David Thoreau
"I have met with but one or two persons in the course of my life who understood the art of Walking, that is, of taking walks,--who had a genius, so to speak, for sauntering, which word is beautifully derived 'from idle people who roved about the country, in the Middle Ages, and asked charity, under pretense of going a la Sainte Terre,' to the Holy Land, till the children- exclaimed, 'There goes a SainteTerrer,' Saunterer, a Holy-Lander. They who never go to the Holy Land in their walks, as they pretend, are indeed mere idlers and vagabonds; but they who do go there are saunterers in the good sense, such as I mean….For every walk is a sort of crusade, preached by some Peter the Hermit in us, to go forth and reconquer this Holy Land from the hands of the Infidels." -Henry David Thoreau
"از عالی‌ترین کیفیت‌های فطرت ما، همچون گل‌های میوه، تنها با لطافت بسیار می‌توان مراقبت کرد. با این وجود رفتار ما، نه با خودمان و نه با دیگران، اینگونه لطیف نیست." -Henry David Thoreau
"¡pues el hombre acepta no lo que es verdaderamente respetable sino lo respetado!" -Henry David Thoreau
"Practically, the old have no very important advice to give the young, their own experience has been so partial, and their lives have been such miserable failures," -Henry David Thoreau
"La mayoría de los hombres, incluso en este país relativamente libre, se afanan tanto por los puros artificios e innecesarias labores de la vida, que no les queda tiempo para cosechar sus mejores frutos." -Henry David Thoreau
"i went to the woods because i wished to live deliberately. i wanted to live deep and suck out all the marrow of life. to put to rout all that was not life, and not when i had come to die, discover that i had not lived." -Henry David Thoreau
"What everybody echoes or in silence passes by as true to-day may turn out to be falsehood to-morrow," -Henry David Thoreau
"Os homens trabalham à sombra de um erro, lançando ao solo para adubo o que têm de melhor. Por uma sina ilusória, vulgarmente chamada necessidade, desgastam-se a amontoar tesouros que a traça e a ferrugem estragarão e que surgem ladrões para roubar. É uma vida de imbecis, como perceberão ao fim dela, se não antes." -Henry David Thoreau
"They were pleasant spring days, in which the winter of man's discontent was thawing as well as the earth, and the life that had lain torpid began to stretch itself." -Henry David Thoreau
"It's not what you look at that matters. It's what you see." -Henry David Thoreau
"The most valuable of all talents is that of never using two words when one will do.''Your intuition knows what to write, so get out of the way.''Easy reading is damn hard writing." -Henry David Thoreau
"There was an artist in the city of Kouroo who was disposed to strive after perfection. One day it came into his mind to make a staff. Having considered that in an imperfect work time is an ingredient, but into a perfect work time does not enter, he said to himself, It shall be perfect in all respects, though I should do nothing else in my life. He proceeded instantly to the forest for wood, being resolved that it should not be made of unsuitable material; and as he searched for and rejected stick after stick, his friends gradually deserted him, for they grew old in their works and died, but he grew not older by a moment. His singleness of purpose and resolution, and his elevated piety, endowed him, without his knowledge, with perennial youth. As he made no compromise with Time, Time kept out of his way, and only sighed at a distance because he could not overcome him. Before he had found a stock in all respects suitable the city of Kouroo was a hoary ruin, and he sat on one of its mounds to peel the stick. Before he had given it the proper shape the dynasty of the Candahars was at an end, and with the point of the stick he wrote the name of the last of that race in the sand, and then resumed his work. By the time he had smoothed and polished the staff Kalpa was no longer the pole-star; and ere he had put on the ferrule and the head adorned with precious stones, Brahma had awoke and slumbered many times. But why do I stay to mention these things? When the finishing stroke was put to his work, it suddenly expanded before the eyes of the astonished artist into the fairest of all the creations of Brahma. He had made a new system in making a staff, a world with fun and fair proportions; in which, though the old cities and dynasties had passed away, fairer and more glorious ones had taken their places. And now he saw by the heap of shavings still fresh at his feet, that, for him and his work, the former lapse of time had been an illusion, and that no more time had elapsed than is required for a single scintillation from the brain of Brahma to fall on and inflame the tinder of a mortal brain. The material was pure, and his art was pure; how could the result be other than wonderful?" -Henry David Thoreau
"Truth, Goodness, Beauty -- those celestial thrins,Continually are born; e'en now the Universe,With thousand throats, and eke with greener smiles,Its joy confesses at their recent birth." -Henry David Thoreau
"Mientras que la civilización ha ido mejorando nuestro habitat, no ha hecho igual con los hombres que han de poblarlo. Ha creado palacios, pero no era tan fácil crear nobles y reyes. Y si los objetivos que persigue el hombre civilizado no tienen más valor que los del salvaje, si empeña la mayor parte de su vida en la satisfacción de necesidades no imprescindibles y de meras comodidades, ¿por qué ha de tener una morada mejor que la de aquél?" -Henry David Thoreau
"La vida que los hombres elogian y consideran lograda no es sino una de las posibles. ¿Por qué exagerar su importancia en detrimento de otras?" -Henry David Thoreau
"Y quizá sería bueno que pasáramos más de nuestros días y noches sin que mediara obstáculo alguno entre nosotros y los cuerpos celestes, y que el poeta no hablara tanto bajo techado o que el santo no se acogiera con tanta frecuencia a su protección." -Henry David Thoreau
"Realicemos nuestro día con el mismo propósito que anima a la Naturaleza, y no nos dejemos apartar del camino por cascara alguna o por ala de mosquito que puedan caer en él. Levantémonos temprano, ayunemos o desayunémonos pausadamente y sin perturbaciones; que venga y vaya la compañía, que tañan las campanas o lloren los niños; sigamos, determinados a hacer de ello un día. ¿Por qué habríamos de someternos e ir con la corriente? No nos sintamos perturbados y vencidos en ese terrible rápido arremolinado que llamamos almuerzo, sito en los bajíos del mediodía. Sortead este peligro, y estaréis a salvo para el resto de la jornada, que discurrirá luego cuesta abajo. Con nervios templados y vigor matinal, dejadlo atrás, y como Ulises atado al mástil, poned la mirada en otra parte. Si silba el motor, que lo haga hasta enronquecer de insistencia. Si tañe la campana ¿por qué hemos de apresurarnos? Consideremos qué música nos ofrecen. Resolvámonos a hacer nuestro camino, llevando adelante nuestros pasos a través del barro y lodo de la opinión, prejuicios, tradición, engaño y apariencias que, cual tierra de aluvión, cubren el globo entero desde París a Londres, Nueva York, Bostón y Concord, a través de Iglesia y Estado, a través de la poesía, la filosofía y la religión, hasta que alcancemos un suelo duro y rocoso, al que podemos llamar realidad, y digamos: «Héla aquí, no hay duda». Y entonces, comencemos, contando con un point d'appui, bajo crecidas, heladas o fuego; un lugar donde se pueda encontrar un muro o una propiedad, donde se pueda erigir sin problemas un farol, o acaso un medidor, no un Nilómetro sino un Realímetro, para que las generaciones futuras sepan qué caudal llegaban a alcanzar de vez en cuando las riadas de engaños y apariencias. Si os enfrentáis cara a cara con un hecho, veréis brillar el sol en sus dos facetas, como si fuera una cimitarra, y sentiréis su suave filo, que os divide por el corazón y la médula, concluyendo así vuestra carrera mortal. Trátese de vida o muerte, nosotros ansiamos sólo la realidad. Si en verdad morimos, que oigamos el estertor en nuestras gargantas y sintamos el frío de nuestras extremidades; si estamos vivos, vayamos a lo nuestro. El tiempo no es sino el río donde voy a pescar. Bebo en él, y mientras lo hago, veo su lecho arenoso y descubro cuán cerca se encuentra de mí. Su fina corriente discurre incansable, pero la eternidad permanece. Yo quisiera beber de más hondo; y pescar en el cielo, cuyo cauce está tachonado de estrellas. No puedo contarlas. Ignoro la primera letra del alfabeto. Siempre he lamentado no ser tan sabio como el día en que nací. La inteligencia es un hendedor; discierne y saja su camino en el secreto de las cosas. No deseo ocupar mis manos más de lo necesario. Mi cabeza es manos y pies. Siento concentradas en ella mis mejores facultades. Mi instinto me dice que aquélla es un órgano excavador, como los hocicos y garras de algunos animales, y con ella minaría y horadaría yo mi camino a través de estas colinas. En algún lugar de estos alrededores se encuentra, creo, la vena más rica; me lo dicen mi varita mágica y los mágicos vapores que ascienden serpenteando. Aquí comenzaré a minar." -Henry David Thoreau