"You talk when you cease to be at peace with your thoughts." -Kahlil Gibran
"If you love somebody, let them go, for if they return, they were always yours. If they don't, they never were." -Kahlil Gibran
"Let there be spaces in your togetherness, And let the winds of the heavens dance between you. Love one another but make not a bond of love: Let it rather be a moving sea between the shores of your souls. Fill each other's cup but drink not from one cup. Give one another of your bread but eat not from the same loaf. Sing and dance together and be joyous, but let each one of you be alone, Even as the strings of a lute are alone though they quiver with the same music. Give your hearts, but not into each other's keeping. For only the hand of Life can contain your hearts. And stand together, yet not too near together: For the pillars of the temple stand apart, And the oak tree and the cypress grow not in each other's shadow." -Kahlil Gibran
"Trees are poems the earth writes upon the sky, We fell them down and turn them into paper,That we may record our emptiness." -Kahlil Gibran
"Out of suffering have emerged the strongest souls; the most massive characters are seared with scars." -Kahlil Gibran
"Ever has it been that love knows not its own depth until the hour of separation." -Kahlil Gibran
"One day you will ask me which is more important? My life or yours? I will say mine and you will walk away not knowing that you are my life." -Kahlil Gibran
"لا تجالس أنصاف العشاق، ولا تصادق أنصاف الأصدقاء، لا تقرأ لأنصاف الموهوبين،لا تعش نصف حياة، ولا تمت نصف موت،لا تختر نصف حل، ولا تقف في منتصف الحقيقة، لا تحلم نصف حلم، ولا تتعلق بنصف أمل، إذا صمتّ.. فاصمت حتى النهاية، وإذا تكلمت.. فتكلّم حتى النهاية، لا تصمت كي تتكلم، ولا تتكلم كي تصمت. إذا رضيت فعبّر عن رضاك، لا تصطنع نصف رضا، وإذا رفضت.. فعبّر عن رفضك، لأن نصف الرفض قبول.. النصف هو حياة لم تعشها، وهو كلمة لم تقلها،وهو ابتسامة أجّلتها، وهو حب لم تصل إليه، وهو صداقة لم تعرفها.. النصف هو ما يجعلك غريباً عن أقرب الناس إليك، وهو ما يجعل أقرب الناس إليك غرباء عنك. النصف هو أن تصل وأن لاتصل، أن تعمل وأن لا تعمل،أن تغيب وأن تحضر.. النصف هو أنت، عندما لا تكون أنت.. لأنك لم تعرف من أنت، النصف هو أن لا تعرف من أنت.. ومن تحب ليس نصفك الآخر.. هو أنت في مكان آخر في الوقت نفسه. نصف شربة لن تروي ظمأك، ونصف وجبة لن تشبع جوعك،نصف طريق لن يوصلك إلى أي مكان، ونصف فكرة لن تعطي لك نتيجة النصف هو لحظة عجزك وأنت لست بعاجز.. لأنك لست نصف إنسان. أنت إنسان وجدت كي تعيش الحياة، وليس كي تعيش نصف حياة ليست حقيقة الإنسان بما يظهره لك.. بل بما لا يستطيع أن يظهره، لذلك.. إذا أردت أن تعرفه فلا تصغي إلى ما يقوله .. بل إلى ما لا يقوله." -Kahlil Gibran
"When you are sorrowful look again in your heart, and you shall see that in truth you are weeping for that which has been your delight." -Kahlil Gibran
"When love beckons to you follow him, Though his ways are hard and steep. And when his wings enfold you yield to him, Though the sword hidden among his pinions may wound you. And when he speaks to you believe in him, Though his voice may shatter your dreams as the north wind lays waste the garden. For even as love crowns you so shall he crucify you. Even as he is for your growth so is he for your pruning. Even as he ascends to your height and caresses your tenderest branches that quiver in the sun, So shall he descend to your roots and shake them in their clinging to the earth......But if in your fear you would seek only love's peace and love's pleasure, Then it is better for you that you cover your nakedness and pass out of love's threshing-floor, Into the seasonless world where you shall laugh, but not all of your laughter, and weep, but not all of your tears. Love gives naught but itself and takes naught but from itself.Love possesses not nor would it be possessed; For love is sufficient unto love. And think not you can direct the course of love, if it finds you worthy, directs your course. Love has no other desire but to fulfil itself.""But if you love and must needs have desires, let these be your desires: To melt and be like a running brook that sings its melody to the night. To know the pain of too much tenderness. To be wounded by your own understanding of love; And to bleed willingly and joyfully." -Kahlil Gibran
"Beauty is not in the face; beauty is a light in the heart." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your children are not your children.They are sons and daughters of Life's longing for itself. They come through you but not from you.And though they are with you yet they belong not to you.You may give them your love but not your thoughts,For they have their own thoughts.You may house their bodies but not their souls,For thir souls dwell in the house of tomorrow, which you cannot visit, not even in your dreams.You may strive to be like them, but seek not to make them like you.For life goes not backward nor tarries with yesterday.You are the bows from which your children as living arrows are sent forth.The archer sees the make upon the path of the infinite, and He bends you with His might that His arrows may go swift and far.Let your bending in the archer's hand be for gladness.For even as He loves the arrow that flies, so He also loves the bow that is stable." -Kahlil Gibran
"I have found both freedom and safety in my madness; the freedom of loneliness and the safety from being understood, for those who understand us enslave something in us." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your children are not your children. They are the sons and daughters of Life's longing for itself" -Kahlil Gibran
"البعض نحبهملكن لا نقترب منهم...فهم في البعد أحلى وهم في البعد أرقى...وهم في البعد أغلىالبعض نحبهمونسعى كي نقترب منهم ونتقاسم تفاصيل الحياة معهم ويؤلمنا الابتعاد عنهم ويصعب علينا تصوّر الحياة حين تخلو منهم.البعض نحبّهم ونتمنى أن نعيش حكاية جميلة معهم ونفتعل الصدف لكي نلتقي بهم ونختلق الأسباب كي نراهم ونعيش في الخيال أكثر من الواقع معهمالبعض نحبهمبيننا و بين أنفسنانصمت برغم الألملا نجاهر بحبهم حتى لهم لأنالعواقب مخيفه و من الأفضل لنا و لهم أن تبقى الأبواب مغلقةالبعض نحبهمفنملأ الأرض بحبهم و نحدث الدنيا عنهمو نحتاج إلى وجودهم..كالماء..والهواءو نختنق فى غيابهم أو الأبتعاد عنهمالبعض نحبّهم لأننا لا نجد سواهم وحاجتنا إلى الحب تدفعنا نحوهم فالأيام تمضي والعمر ينقضيوالزمن لا يقف ويرعبنا بأن نبقى بلا رفيقالبعض نحبهملأن مثلهم لا يستحق سوى الحبولا نملك أمامهم سوى أن نحبنرمم معهم أشياء كثيرةنعيد طلاء الحياةونسعى صادقين كي نمنحهم بعض السعادةالبعض نحبهمو لا نجد صدى للحب فيقلوبهمفننهارونتخبط في حكايات فاشلةفلا نكرههملا ننساهم لا نحب سواهمونعود نبكيهم بعد كل محاولة فاشلةوالبعض نحبّهمويبقى فقط أن يحبّوننامثلما نحبّهم" -Kahlil Gibran
"ما اجهل الناس الذين يتوهّمون ان المحبة تتولد بالمعاشرة الطويلة والمرافقة المستمرة. ان المحبة الحقيقية هي ابنة التفاهم الروحي وان لم يتم هذا التفاهم الروحي بلحظة واحدة لا يتم بعام ولا بجيل كامل" -Kahlil Gibran
"The timeless in you is aware of life's timelessness. And knows that yesterday is but today's memory and tomorrow is today's dream." -Kahlil Gibran
"And forget not that the earth delights to feel your bare feet and the winds long to play with your hair" -Kahlil Gibran
"I have learned silence from the talkative, toleration from the intolerant, and kindness from the unkind; yet strange, I am ungrateful to these teachers." -Kahlil Gibran
"Tenderness and kindness are not signs of weakness and despair, but manifestations of strength and resolution." -Kahlil Gibran
"Some of you say, 'Joy is greater than sorrow,' and others say, 'Nay, sorrow is the greater.'But I say unto you, they are inseparable.Together they come, and when one sits alone with you at your board, remember that the other is asleep upon your bed." -Kahlil Gibran
"We are all like the bright moon, we still have our darker side." -Kahlil Gibran
"ليست حقيقة الانسان بما يظهره لك , بل بما لا يستطيع أن يظهره لك , لذلك اذا أردت أن تعرفه فلا تصغ الى ما يقوله بل الى ما لايقوله" -Kahlil Gibran
"You give but little when you give of your possessions.It is when you give of yourself that you truly give." -Kahlil Gibran
"بين منطوق لم يُقصَد، ومقصود لم يُنطَق، تضيع الكثير من المحبة." -Kahlil Gibran
"النسيان شكل من أشكال الحرية" -Kahlil Gibran
"It takes a minute to have a crush on someone, an hour to like someone, and a day to love someone... but it takes a lifetime to forget someone." -Kahlil Gibran
"No human relation gives one possession in another—every two souls are absolutely different. In friendship or in love, the two side by side raise hands together to find what one cannot reach alone." -Kahlil Gibran
"Generosity is giving more than you can, and pride is taking less than you need." -Kahlil Gibran
"Hearts united in pain and sorrowwill not be separated by joy and happiness.Bonds that are woven in sadnessare stronger than the ties of joy and pleasure.Love that is washed by tearswill remain eternally pure and faithful." -Kahlil Gibran
"To belittle, you have to be little." -Kahlil Gibran
"For what is it to die but to stand naked in the wind and to melt into the sun? And when the earth shall claim your limbs, then shall you truly dance." -Kahlil Gibran
"ويل لأمة تكثر فيها المذاهب والطوائف وتخلو من الدين ، ويل لأمة تلبس مما لاتنسج ، وتأكل مما لاتزرع ، وتشرب مما لاتعصر ، ويل لأمة تحسب المستبد بطلا ، وترى الفاتح المذل رحيما ً، ويل لأمة لاترفع صوتها إلا إذا مشت بجنازة ، ولا تفخر إلا بالخراب ولا تثور إلا وعنقها بين السيف والنطع ..ويلٌ لأمة سائسها ثعلب، و فيلسوفها مشعوذ، و فنها فن الترقيع و التقليد. ويلٌ لأمة تستقبل حاكمها بالتطبيل و تودعة بالصَّفير، لتستقبل آخر بالتطبيل و التزمير. ويلُ لأمة حكماؤها خرس من وقر السنين، و رجالها الأشداء لا يزالون في أقمطة السرير. ويلٌ لأمة مقسمة إلى أجزاء، و كل جزءي يحسب نفسه فيها أمة." -Kahlil Gibran
"Love one another, but make not a bond of love:Let it rather be a moving sea between the shores of your souls." -Kahlil Gibran
"I AM IGNORANT of absolute truth. But I am humble before my ignorance and therein lies my honor and my reward." -Kahlil Gibran
"Beauty is eternity gazing at itself in a mirror.But you are eternity and you are the mirror." -Kahlil Gibran
"You pray in your distress and in your need; would that you might pray also in the fullness of your joy and in your days of abundance." -Kahlil Gibran
"حين يغمُرك الحزن ، تأمل قلبك من جديد ، فسترى أنك في الحقيقة تبكي مما كان يوما مصدر بهجتك" -Kahlil Gibran
"We choose our joys and sorrows long before we experience them." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your pain is the breaking of the shell that encloses your understanding... And could you keep your heart in wonder at the daily miracles of your life, your pain would not seem less wondrous than your joy" -Kahlil Gibran
"The smallest act of kindness is worth more than the greatest intention." -Kahlil Gibran
"إذا كنت لا ترى غير ما يكشف عنه الضوء ولا تسمع غير ما يُعلنُ عنه الصوت، فأنت في الحق لا تبصر ولا تسمع." -Kahlil Gibran
"When you part from your friend, you grieve not;For that which you love most in him may be clearer in his absence, asthe mountain to the climber is clearer from the plain." -Kahlil Gibran
"The Reality of The Other Person Lies Not In What He Reveals To You, But What He Cannot Reveal To You.Therefore, If You Would Understand Him, Listen Not To What He Says, But Rather To What He Does Not Say." -Kahlil Gibran
"Do not love half lovers Do not entertain half friends  Do not indulge in works of the half talented Do not live half a life  and do not die a half death If you choose silence, then be silent When you speak, do so until you are finished Do not silence yourself to say something And do not speak to be silent If you accept, then express it bluntly Do not mask it If you refuse then be clear about it  for an ambiguous refusal is but a weak acceptance Do not accept half a solution Do not believe half truths Do not dream half a dream Do not fantasize about half hopes Half a drink will not quench your thirst Half a meal will not satiate your hunger Half the way will get you no where Half an idea will bear you no results Your other half is not the one you love It is you in another time yet in the same space It is you when you are not Half a life is a life you didn't live,  A word you have not said A smile you postponed  A love you have not had A friendship you did not know To reach and not arrive Work and not work Attend only to be absent What makes you a stranger to them closest to you and they strangers to you The half is a mere moment of inability but you are able for you are not half a being You are a whole that exists to live a life  not half a life" -Kahlil Gibran
"Friendship is always a sweet responsibility, never an opportunity." -Kahlil Gibran
"Love knows not its own depth until the hour of separation" -Kahlil Gibran
"من الغريب أن يكون أحب الناس إلينا أقدرهم على تشويش حياتنا" -Kahlil Gibran
"You may forget with whom you laughed, but you will never forget with whom you wept." -Kahlil Gibran
"Music is the language of the spirit. It opens the secret of life bringing peace, abolishing strife." -Kahlil Gibran
"It is wrong to think that love comes from long companionship and persevering courtship. Love is the offspring of spiritual affinity and unless that affinity is created in a moment, it will not be created for years or even generations." -Kahlil Gibran
"And a woman spoke, saying, ""Tell us of Pain."" And he said: Your pain is the breaking of the shell that encloses your understanding. Even as the stone of the fruit must break, that its heart may stand in the sun, so must you know pain. And could you keep your heart in wonder at the daily miracles of your life, your pain would not seem less wondrous than your joy; And you would accept the seasons of your heart, even as you have always accepted the seasons that pass over your fields. And you would watch with serenity through the winters of your grief. Much of your pain is self-chosen. It is the bitter potion by which the physician within you heals your sick self. Therefore trust the physician, and drink his remedy in silence and tranquillity: For his hand, though heavy and hard, is guided by the tender hand of the Unseen, And the cup he brings, though it burn your lips, has been fashioned of the clay which the Potter has moistened with His own sacred tears." -Kahlil Gibran
"I love you when you bow in your mosque, kneel in your temple, pray in your church. For you and I are sons of one religion, and it is the spirit." -Kahlil Gibran
"Solitude has soft, silky hands, but with strong fingers it grasps the heart and makes it ache with sorrow." -Kahlil Gibran
"To understand the heart and mind of a person, look not at what he has already achieved, but at what he aspires to." -Kahlil Gibran
"The appearance of things changes according to the emotions; and thus we see magic and beauty in them, while the magic and beauty are really in ourselves." -Kahlil Gibran
"But if you love and must needs have desires, let these be your desires:To melt and be like a running brook that sings its melody to the night.To know the pain of too much tenderness.To be wounded by your own understanding of love;And to bleed willingly and joyfully.To wake at dawn with a winged heart and give thanks for another day of loving;To rest at noon hour and meditate love's ecstasy;To return home at eventide with gratitude;And then to sleep with a prayer for the beloved in your heart and a song of praise on your lips." -Kahlil Gibran
"ليس الجود أن تعطيني ما أنا أشدّ منك حاجة إليه ، وإنما الجود أن تعطيني ما أنت أشدّ إليه حاجة مني" -Kahlil Gibran
"لا تجعل ثيابك أغلى شيءٍ فيك , حتى لا تجد نفسك يوماً أرخص ممّا ترتدي" -Kahlil Gibran
"You have been told that, even like a chain, you are as weak as your weakest link.This is but half the truth.You are also as strong as your strongest link.To measure you by your smallest deed is to reckon the power of the oceanby the frailty of its foam.To judge you by your failures is to cast blame upon the seasons for their inconstancy." -Kahlil Gibran
"We wanderers, ever seeking the lonelier way, begin no day where we have ended another day; and no sunrise finds us where sunset left us. Even while the earth sleeps we travel. We are the seeds of the tenacious plant, and it is in our ripeness and our fullness of heart that we are given to the wind and are scattered." -Kahlil Gibran
"If you reveal your secrets to the wind,you should not blame the wind forrevealing them to the trees." -Kahlil Gibran
"They deem me mad because I will not sell my days for gold; and I deem them mad because they think my days have a price." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your living is determined not so much by what life brings to you as by the attitude you bring to life; not so much by what happens to you as by the way your mind looks at what happens." -Kahlil Gibran
"لا يدرك أسرار قلوبنا الا من امتلأت قلوبهم بالأسرار." -Kahlil Gibran
"ما أنبل القلب الحزين الذي لايمنعه حزنه على ان ينشد أغنية مع القلوب الفرحة" -Kahlil Gibran
"قولك لا تفهمني مدح لا أستحقه أنا , واهانة لا تستحقها أنت." -Kahlil Gibran
"لي من نفسي صديق يعزيني إذا ما اشتدت خطوب الأيام، ويواسيني عندما تلم مصائب الحياة، ومن لم يكن صديقاً لنفسه كان عدواً للناس، ومن لم ير مؤنساً من ذاته مات قانطاً، لأنّ الحياة تنبثق من داخل الإنسان ولم تجئ مما يحيطوا به." -Kahlil Gibran
"الرجل الذي لا يغفر للمرأة هفواتها الصغيرة لن يتمتع بفضائلها الكبيرة" -Kahlil Gibran
"أنا غريب عن هذا العالم...أنا غريب وليس في الوجود من يعرف كلمة من لغة نفسي" -Kahlil Gibran
"Keep me away from the wisdom which does not cry, the philosophy which does not laugh and the greatness which does not bow before children." -Kahlil Gibran
"In the sweetness of friendship let there be laughter, and sharing of pleasures. For in the dew of little things, does the heart find its morning and is refreshed." -Kahlil Gibran
"No man can reveal to you aught but that which already lies half asleep in the dawning of your knowledge.The teacher who walks in the shadow of the temple, among his followers, gives not of his wisdom but rather of his faith and his lovingness.If he is indeed wise he does not bid you enter the house of his wisdom, but rather leads you to the threshold of your own mind." -Kahlil Gibran
"Trees are poems that the earth writes upon the sky." -Kahlil Gibran
"For what is your friend that you should seek him with hours to kill? Seek him always with hours to live.For it is his to fill your need, but not your emptiness.And in th sweetness of friendship let there be laughter, and sharing of pleasures.For in the dew of little things the heart finds its morning and is refreshed." -Kahlil Gibran
"When you reach the end of what you should know, you will be at the beginning of what you should sense." -Kahlil Gibran
"ما أغربني عندما أشكو ألما فيه لذتي" -Kahlil Gibran
"Thus with my lips have I denounced you, while my heart, bleeding within me, called you tender names.It was love lashed by its own self that spoke. It was pride half slain that fluttered in the dust. It was my hunger for your love that raged from the housetop, while my own love, kneeling in silence, prayed your forgiveness." -Kahlil Gibran
"Travel and tell no one, live a true love story and tell no one, live happily and tell no one, people ruin beautiful things." -Kahlil Gibran
"أولادكم ليسوا لكمأولادكم أبناء الحياة المشتاقة إلى نفسها, بكم يأتون إلى العالم, ولكن ليس منكم.ومع أنهم يعيشون معكم, فهم ليسوا ملكاً لكم.أنتم تستطيعون أن تمنحوهم محبتكم, ولكنكم لا تقدرون أن تغرسوا فيهم بذور أفكاركم, لأن لهم أفكارأً خاصةً بهم.وفي طاقتكم أن تصنعوا المساكم لأجسادكم.ولكن نفوسهم لا تقطن في مساكنكم.فهي تقطن في مسكن الغد, الذي لا تستطيعون أن تزوروه حتى ولا في أحلامكم.وإن لكم أن تجاهدوا لكي تصيروا مثلهم.ولكنكم عبثاً تحاولون أن تجعلوهم مثلكم.لأن الحياة لا ترجع إلى الوراء, ولا تلذ لها الإقامة في منزل الأمس.أنتم الأقواس وأولادكم سهام حية قد رمت بها الحياة عن أقواسكم.فإن رامي السهام ينظر العلامة المنصوبة على طريق اللانهاية, فيلويكم بقدرته لكي تكون سهامه سريعة بعيدة المدى.لذلك, فليكن التواؤكم بين يدي رامي السهام الحكيم لأجل المسرة والغبطة.لأنه, كما يحب السهم الذي يطير من قوسه, هكذا يحب القوس الذي يثبت بين يديه." -Kahlil Gibran
"مع أن أمواج الألفاظ تغمرنا أحياناًإلا أن عمقنا صامتٌ أبداً .. !" -Kahlil Gibran
"يضع التعب يده على أهدابي، كأنه يفرض عليها النوم .. لكن ما من شيء يستطيع أن يضع يده على أحلامي .." -Kahlil Gibran
"إذا صمت صديقك ولم يتكلم فلا ينقطع قلبك عن الإصغاء إلى صوت قلبه لأن الصداقة لا تحتاج إلى الألفاظ والعبارات" -Kahlil Gibran
"My loneliness was born when men praised my talkative faults and blamed my silent virtues." -Kahlil Gibran
"انت اثنان : واحد متيقظ في الظلمة والثاني غافل في النور" -Kahlil Gibran
"And when you crush an apple with your teeth, say to it in your heart:Your seeds shall live in my body,And the buds of your tomorrow shall blossom in my heart,And your fragrance shall be my breath,And together we shall rejoice through all the seasons." -Kahlil Gibran
"ما زلت أؤمنأن الانسان لا يموت دفعة واحدةوإنما يموت بطريقة الأجزاءكلما رحل صديق مات جزءوكلما غادرنا حبيب مات جزءوكلما قُتل حلم من أحلامنا مات جزءفيأتي الموت الأكبر ليجد كل الأجزاء ميتةفيحملها ويرحل" -Kahlil Gibran
"Trust in dreams, for in them is the hidden gate to eternity." -Kahlil Gibran
"The deeper that sorrow carves into your being,the more joy you can contain.Is not the cup that holds your wine the very cup that was burned in the potter's oven?And is not the lute that soothes your spirit, the very wood that was hollowed with knives?When you are joyous, look deep into your heart and you shall find it is only that which has given you sorrow that is giving you joy.When you are sorrowful look again in your heart, and you shall see that in truth you are weeping for that which has been your delight." -Kahlil Gibran
"Say not, 'I have found the truth,' but rather, 'I have found a truth.'Say not, 'I have found the path of the soul.' Say rather, 'I have met the soul walking upon my path.'For the soul walks upon all paths.The soul walks not upon a line, neither does it grow like a reed.The soul unfolds itself, like a lotus of countless petals." -Kahlil Gibran
"One's own religion is after all a matter between oneself and one's Maker and no one else's." -Kahlil Gibran
"Half of what I say is meaningless; but I say it so that the other half may reach you." -Kahlil Gibran
"An eye for an eye, and the whole world would be blind." -Kahlil Gibran
"فاسمعي يا صغيرتي الحلوة، إذا تخاصمنا في المستقبل (هذا إذا كان لا بد من الخصام) يجب أن لا نفترق مثلما كنّا نفعل في الماضي بعد كل معركة. يجب أن نبقى، برغم الخصام، تحت سقف بيت واحد حتى نملّ الخصام فنضحك، أو يملّنا الخصام فيذهب هازًا رأسه." -Kahlil Gibran
"الحب الذي تغسله العيون بدموعها يظل طاهرًا وجميلاً وخالدًا" -Kahlil Gibran
"مملة الوحدة ولكنها أكثر إنصافًا من ضجيج يمتلئ نفاقًا" -Kahlil Gibran
"بين خيال الانسان وادراكه .. مسافة لا يدركها سوى حنينه" -Kahlil Gibran
"احتقرتُ نفسي سبعَ مرَّات:الأولى، عندما رأيتُها تتظاهرُ الوضاعة وهي تنشدُ الرِّفعة.والثانية عندما رأيتها تترنَّح متجاوزة العَرْجى.والثالثة عندما خُيِّرتْ بين السَّهل والشَّاق ففضَّلت السَّهل.والرابعة عندما اقترفَتْ ذنباً وراحتْ تبرِّره باقتراف الآخرين ذنوباً مماثلة.والخامسة عندما عجِزَتْ عن فعل شيء لضعفها وعزَتْ صبرَها إلى القوَّة.والسادسة عندما احتقرتْ بشاعة وجهٍ تبيَّن أنه أحدُ براقعها.والسابعة عندما غنَّتْ مديحاً واعتبرتْ غناءَها فضيلة." -Kahlil Gibran
"ليتني طفل لا يكبر أبدا ً , فلا أنافق ولا أراهن , ولا أكره أحدا" -Kahlil Gibran
"The real test of good manners is to be able to put up with bad manners pleasantly." -Kahlil Gibran
"The optimist sees the rose and not its thorns; the pessimist stares at the thorns, oblivious to the rose." -Kahlil Gibran
"They say: 'If a man knew himself,he would know all mankind.'I say: 'If a man loved mankind,he would know something of himself." -Kahlil Gibran
"Sadness is but a wall between two gardens." -Kahlil Gibran
"Between what is said and not meant, and what is meant and not said, most of love is lost." -Kahlil Gibran
"انتم تؤمنون بما تسمعونه يقال امامكم ، فآمنوا بالاحرى بما لا يقال ، لأن صمت الناس اقرب الى الحقيقة من اقوالهم ." -Kahlil Gibran
"ان ما نتوق اليه ونعجز عن الحصول عليه أحب الى قلوبنا مما قد حصلنا عليه." -Kahlil Gibran
"And God said 'Love Your Enemy,' and I obeyed him and loved myself." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن ما تشعرون به من الألم هو انكسار القشرة التي تغلف إدراككم . وكما أن القشرة الصلدة التي تحجب الثمرة يجب أن تتحطم حتى يبرز قلبها من ظلمة الأرض إلى نور الشمس .. هكذا أنتم أيضاً .. يجب أن تحطم الآلام قشوركم قبل أن تعرفوا معنى الحياة .. لأنكم لو استطعتم أن تعيروا عجائب حياتكم اليومية حقها من التأمل والدهشة لما كنتم ترون ألامكم أقل غرابة من أفراحكم .. أنتم مخيرون في الكثير من آلامكم .. وهذا الكثير من آلامكم هو الجرعة الشديدة المرارة التي بواسطتها يَشفي الطبيب الحكيم الساهر في أعماقكم أسقام نفوسكم البشرية .." -Kahlil Gibran
"Forgetfulness is a form of freedom." -Kahlil Gibran
"You were born together, and together you shall be forevermore.You shall be together when the white wings of death scatter your days.Ay, you shall be together even in the silent memory of God.But let there be spaces in your togetherness,And let the winds of the heavens dance between you.Love one another, but make not a bond of love:Let it rather be a moving sea between the shores of your souls.Fill each other's cup but drink not from one cup.Give one another of your bread but eat not from the same loafSing and dance together and be joyous, but let each one of you be alone,Even as the strings of a lute are alone though they quiver with the same music.Give your hearts, but not into each other's keeping.For only the hand of Life can contain your hearts.And stand together yet not too near together:For the pillars of the temple stand apart,And the oak tree and the cypress grow not in each other's shadow." -Kahlil Gibran
"For what is evil but good tortured by its own hunger and thirst?" -Kahlil Gibran
"الإعتذار لا يعني أنك على خطأ فقط، بل يعني أنك تقدّر العلاقة مع الآخرين وتمنحها أهمية كبيرة٠" -Kahlil Gibran
"الحب كالموت يغير كل شيء." -Kahlil Gibran
"وكل ما يوجع النفوس الحساسة في هذا العالم هو سوء التفاهم" -Kahlil Gibran
"ما أكثر الذين يتوهمون أنهم يفهموننا لأنهم وجدوا في بعض مظاهرنا شيئا , شبيها بما أختبروه مرّة في حياتهم .وليتهم يكتفون بادعائهم معرفة أسرارنا تلك الأسرار التي نحن ذواتنا لا ندركها - ولكنهم يصموننا بعلامات وأرقام ثم يضعوننا على رف من رفوف أفكارهم واعتقاداتهم مثلما يفعل الصيدلي بقناني الأدوية والمساحيق" -Kahlil Gibran
"Only yesterday I was no different than them, yet I was saved. I am explaining to you the way of life of a people who say every sort of wicked thing about me because I sacrificed their friendship to gain my own soul. I left the dark paths of their duplicity and turned my eyes toward the light where there is salvation, truth, and justice. They have exiled me now from their society, yet I am content. Mankind only exiles the one whose large spirit rebels against injustice and tyranny. He who does not prefer exile to servility is not free in the true and necessary sense of freedom." -Kahlil Gibran
"Pity the nation that is full of beliefs and empty of religion. Pity the nation that wears a cloth it does not weave and eats a bread it does not harvest. Pity the nation that acclaims the bully as hero, and that deems the glittering conqueror bountiful. Pity a nation that despises a passion in its dream, yet submits in its awakening. Pity the nation that raises not its voice save when it walks in a funeral, boasts not except among its ruins, and will rebel not save when its neck is laid between the sword and the block. Pity the nation whose statesman is a fox, whose philosopher is a juggler, and whose art is the art of patching and mimicking Pity the nation that welcomes its new ruler with trumpeting, and farewells him with hooting, only to welcome another with trumpeting again. Pity the nation whose sages are dumb with years and whose strongmen are yet in the cradle. Pity the nation divided into fragments, each fragment deeming itself a nation." -Kahlil Gibran
"أنتَ لا تحاكم الآخرين إلا على أساس إدراككَ ذاتَك. قلْ لي إذن، مَن مِنَّا المذنب ومَن البريء؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"أنا لا أتجاهل، أنا فقط أحاول أن تبقى روحي بعيدة لكي لا تتعلق بشيء تحبه اليوم ويزول غدًا" -Kahlil Gibran
"أنت حر أمام شمس النهار .. وأنت حر أمام قمر الليل وكواكبه ,, وأنت حر حيث لا شمس ولا قمر ولا كواكب .. بل أنت حر عندما تغمض عينيك عن الكيان بكليته. ولكن أنت عبد لمن تحب لأنك تحبه , وأنت عبد لمن يحبك لأنه يحبك" -Kahlil Gibran
"And think not you can direct the course of love, for love, if it finds you worthy, directs your course." -Kahlil Gibran
"أحبوا بعضكم بعضا ولكن لا تحيلوا الحب إلى قيد: بل أتيحوا له بالأحرى أن يكون بحرا يموج بين شطآن أرواحكم .. ليملأ الواحد كأس الآخر ... لكن لا تشربوا من كأس واحدة وليعط الآخر من خبزه .. لكن لا تأكلوا من نفس الرغيف غنوا وارقصوا معا ، وافرحوا ، لكن ليبق كل واحد منكم وحيدا مثلما تبقى أوتار الفيتارة وحدها ، رغم أنها ترتعش بنفس الموسيقى" -Kahlil Gibran
"باطلة هي الاعتقادات والتعاليم التي تجعل الإنسان تعسا في حياته، وكذّابة هي العواطف التي تقوده إلى اليأس والحزن والشقاء. لأن واجب الإنسان أن يكون سعيداً وأن يعلم سُبل السعادة ويهدي الناس اليها اينما كان" -Kahlil Gibran
"When you love you should not think you can direct the course of love, for love, if it finds you worthy, directs your course." -Kahlil Gibran
"A friend who is far away is sometimes much nearer than one who is at hand. Is not the mountain far more awe-inspiring and more clearly visible to one passing through the valley than to those who inhabit the mountain?" -Kahlil Gibran
"إن النفس الحزينة المتألمة تجد راحة بانضمامها إلىنفس أخرى تماثلها بالشعور و تشاركها بالإحساسمثلما يستأنس الغريب بالغريب في أرض بعيدة عنوطنهما..فالقلوب التي تدنيها أوجاع الكآبة بعضها من بعض لاتفرقها بهجة الأفراح و بهرجتها .فرابطة الحزن أقوى في النفوس من روابط الغبطة والسرور .و الحب الذي تغسله العيون بدموعها يظلّ طاهراًوجميلاً و خالداً." -Kahlil Gibran
"في الحق إننا نتحدث إلى أنفسنا فقط، غير أننا نرفع صوتنا أحياناَ حتى يسمعنا الآخرون" -Kahlil Gibran
"إنك قد تنسى انسانا شاطرته الضحك والفرح ولكن لا يمكنك أن تنسى أبدا شخصا حزنت معه وبكيت" -Kahlil Gibran
"ما عييت الا أمام من سألني : من أنت!؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"Much of your pain is self-chosen.It is the bitter potion by which the physician within you heals your sick self.Therefore trust the physician, and drink his remedy in silence and tranquility:For his hand, though heavy and hard, is guided by the tender hand of the Unseen,And the cup he brings, though it burn your lips, has been fashioned of the clay which the Potter has moistened with His own sacred tears." -Kahlil Gibran
"In one drop of water are found all the secrets of all the oceans; in one aspect of You are found all the aspects of existence." -Kahlil Gibran
"انما القصد من الوجود ... الطموح الى ما وراء الوجود" -Kahlil Gibran
"Your joy is your sorrow unmasked.And the selfsame well from which your laughter rises was oftentimes filled with your tears.And how else can it be?The deeper that sorrow carves into your being, the more joy you can contain." -Kahlil Gibran
"كلٌمـا عمٌق الحزنٌ حفرَةً في كينونتك , ازدادت قُدرتك على احتواء فَرح أكثر" -Kahlil Gibran
"Your pain is the breaking of the shell that encloses your understanding. It is the bitter potion by which the physician within you heals your sick self. Therefore, trust the physician and drink his remedy in silence and tranquility." -Kahlil Gibran
"Work is love made visible. And if you can't work with love, but only with distaste, it is better that you should leave your work and sit at the gate of the temple and take alms of the people who work with joy" -Kahlil Gibran
"Many of us spend our whole lives running from feeling with the mistaken belief that you can not bear the pain. But you have already borne the pain. What you have not done is feel all you are beyond that pain." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your children are not your children. They are the sons and daughters of Life's longing for itself... You may house their bodies but not their souls, for their souls dwell in the house of tomorrow, which you cannot visit, not even in your dreams." -Kahlil Gibran
"الصديق المزيف كالظل يمشي ورائي عندما أكون في الشمس ويختفي عندما أكون في الظلام" -Kahlil Gibran
"Much of your pain is self-chosen." -Kahlil Gibran
"When love beckons to you, follow him,Though his ways are hard and steep.And When his wings enfold you yield to him,Though the sword hidden among his pinions may wound you.And When he speaks to you believe in him,Though his voice may shatter your dreams as the north wind lays waste the garden...But if in your fear you would seek only love's peace and love's pleasure,Then it is better for you that you cover your nakedness and pass out oflove's threshing-floor,Into the seasonless world where you shall laugh, but not all of your laughter, and weep, but not all of your tears...But if you love and must needs have desires, let these be your desires:To melt and be like a running brook that sings its melody to the night.To know the pain of too much tenderness.To be wounded by your own understanding of love;And to bleed willingly and joyfully." -Kahlil Gibran
"You talk when you cease to be at peace with your thoughts;And when you can no longer dwell in the solitude of your heart you live in your lips, and sound is a diversion and a pastime.And in much of your talking, thinking is half murdered." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your daily life is your temple and your religion." -Kahlil Gibran
"The deeper that sorrow carves into your being, the more joy you can contain." -Kahlil Gibran
"* من حسنات الناس انهم لا يستطيعون إخفاء سيئاتهم طويلاً" -Kahlil Gibran
"من أنتِ أيتها القريبة من قلبى، البعيدة عن ناظرى، الفاصلة بينى وبينى، الموثقة حاضرى بأزمنة بعيدة منسية؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"love one another, but make not a bond of love: let it rather be a moving sea between the shores of your souls. fill each other's cup but drink not from one cup. give one another of your bread but eat not from the same loaf sing and dance together and be joyous, but let each one of you be alone, even as the strings of a lute are alone though they quiver with the same music." -Kahlil Gibran
"We are all prisoners but some of us are in cells with windows and some without." -Kahlil Gibran
"التذكار شكل من أشكال اللقاء" -Kahlil Gibran
"There is a space between man's imagination and man's attainment that may only be traversed by his longing." -Kahlil Gibran
"ان العواصف و الثلوج تفني الزهور ولكنها لا تميت بذورها" -Kahlil Gibran
"إن أعذب ما تحدثه الشفاه البشرية هو لفظة (الأم) وأجمل مناداة هي: يا أمي. كلمة صغيرةٌ كبيرة مملوءة بالأمل والحبّ والانعطاف وكل ما في القلب البشري من الرِّقَّة والحلاوة والعذوبة. الأم هي كل شيء في هذه الحياة، هي التعزية في الحزن، والرَّجاء في اليأس، والقوة في الضعف، هي ينبوع الحنو والرأفة والشفقة والغفران، فالذي يفقد أمه يفقد صدراً يسند إليه رأسه ويداً تباركه وعيناً تحرسه..." -Kahlil Gibran
"Safeguarding the rights of others is the most noble and beautiful end of a human being." -Kahlil Gibran
"Verily the lust for comfort murders the passion of the soul, and then walks grinning in the funeral." -Kahlil Gibran
". الحق يحتاج لرجلين : رجل ينطق به و رجل يفهمه" -Kahlil Gibran
"إن قلب المرأة لا يتغير مع الزمن و لا يتحول مع الفصول، قلب المرأة ينازع طويلاً و لكنه لا يموت. قلب المرأة يشابه البرية التي يتخذها الإنسان ساحة لحروبه و مذابحه، فهو يقتلع أشجارها ويحرق أعشابها ويلطخ صخورها بالدماء ويغرس تربتها بالعظام و الجماجم، ولكنها تبقى هادئة ساكنة مطمئنة ويظل فيها الربيع ربيعاً و الخريف خريفاً إلى نهاية الدهور ..." -Kahlil Gibran
"أعطني أذناً أعطك صوتاً" -Kahlil Gibran
"أعطني الناي وغني فالغنا سر الوجودوأنين الناي يبقى بعد أن يفنى الوجودهل إتخذت الغاب مثلي منزلاً دون القصورفتتبعت السواقي وتسلقت الصخورهل تحممت بعطر وتنشفت بنوروشربت الفجر خمراً فى كؤوس من أثيرهل جلست العصر مثلي بين جفنات العنبوالعناقيد تدلت كثريات الذهبهل فرشت العشب ليلاً وتلحفت الفضاءزاهداً في ما سيأتي ناسياً ما قد مضىأعطني الناي وغني وانسى داء ودواءإنما الناس سطورٌ كتبت لكن بماء" -Kahlil Gibran
"اذا كنت لا تفهم صديقك في جميع الظروف , فأنت لا و لن تفهمه." -Kahlil Gibran
"قد لا يبلغ المرء الفجر الا عن طريق الليل" -Kahlil Gibran
"أنا لا أعرف الحقيقة المجردة , ولكني أركع متواضعا أمام جهلي , وفي هذا فخري وأجري" -Kahlil Gibran
"Faith is an oasis in the heart which will never be reached by the caravan of thinking." -Kahlil Gibran
"فالحب قد اعتق لساني فتكلمت، ومزق أجفاني فبكيت، وفتح حنجرتي فتنهدت وشكوت" -Kahlil Gibran
"Darkness may hide the treesand the flowers from the eyesbut it cannot hidelove from the soul." -Kahlil Gibran
"Words are timeless. You should utter them or write them with a knowledge of their timelessness." -Kahlil Gibran
"Seven times I have despised my soul:The first time when I saw her being meek that she might attain height.The second time when I saw her limping before the crippled.The third time when she was given to choose between the hard and the easy, and she chose the easy.The fourth time when she committed a wrong, and comforted herself that others also commit wrong.The fifth time when she forbode for weakness, and attributed her patience to strength.The sixth time when she despised the ugliness of a face, and knew not that it was one of her own masks.And the seventh time when she sang a song of praise, and deemed it a virtue." -Kahlil Gibran
"علـى قـدرَ مايَغوصُ الحُـزنَ في أعمـاقِكُـميـزيـُد مـا تستوعبون مِـن فـرحً" -Kahlil Gibran
"Of life's two chief prizes, beauty and truth, I found the first in a loving heart and the second in a laborer's hand." -Kahlil Gibran
"Love gives naught but itself and takes naught but from itself, Love possesses not nor would it be possessed: For love is sufficient unto love." -Kahlil Gibran
"The teacher who is indeed wise does not bid you to enter the house of his wisdom but rather leads you to the threshold of your mind." -Kahlil Gibran
"لا تجالس أنصاف العشاق، ولا تصادق أنصاف الأصدقاء ، لا تقرأ لـ أنصاف الموهوبين،لا تعش نصف حياة، ولا تمت نصف موت،لا تختر نصف حل، ولا تقف في منتصف الحقيقة ،" -Kahlil Gibran
"أشعـر أنني أريد أن أقـول لكـ فقط أحبــك , ومن ثم أبـكي!!أبكـي لأنـها تعبـر عن الكثـير ولأنها تختصـر الكثـيرولأن الأطفـال حين يعـجزون عـن التعبير يبكونويرددون كلمة واحـدة غير مفهومة ومبهمة" -Kahlil Gibran
"I wash my hands of those who imagine chattering to be knowledge, silence to be ignorance, and affection to be art." -Kahlil Gibran
"Life without love is like a tree without blossoms or fruit.''Love has no other desire but to fulfill itself. To melt and be like a running brook that sings its melody to the night. To wake at dawn with a winged heart and give thanks for another day of loving" -Kahlil Gibran
"الحياة موكب عظيم , ينظر إليه بطئ الخطى فيحسبه سريعا جدا ولذلك يهرب منه , وينظر إليه سريع الخطى فيحسبه بطيئا ويهرب منه..... قد تعلمت الصمت من الثرثار , والتساهل من المتعصب , واللطف من الغليظ , والأغرب من كل هذا أنني لا اعترف بجميل هؤلاء المعلمين" -Kahlil Gibran
"Your reason and your passion are the rudder and the sails of your seafaring soul.If either your sails or your rudder be broken, you can but toss and drift, or else be held at a standstill in mid-seas.For reason, ruling alone, is a force confining; and passion, unattended, is a flame that burns to its own destruction.Therefore let your soul exalt your reason to the height of passion, that it may sing;And let it direct your passion with reason, that your passion may live through its own daily resurrection, and like the phoenix rise above its own ashes." -Kahlil Gibran
"When life does not find a singer to sing her heart she produces a philosopher to speak her mind." -Kahlil Gibran
"Desire is half of life; indifference is half of death." -Kahlil Gibran
"أريدك أن تذكرني مثلما تذكر الأم جنيناً مات في أحشائها قبل أن يرى النور." -Kahlil Gibran
"إذا كنت لاترى إلا مايظهره النور، ولاتسمع إلا ماتعلنه الأصوات فأنت بالحقيقة لاترى ولاتسمع٠" -Kahlil Gibran
"There must be something strangely sacred in salt. It is in our tears and in the sea." -Kahlil Gibran
"My friend, I am not what I seem. Seeming is but a garment I wear — a care-woven garment that protects me from thy questionings and thee from my negligence. The ""I"" in me, my friend, dwells in the house of silence, and therein it shall remain for ever more, unperceived, unapproachable." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن النفس الحزينة المتألمة تجد راحة بانضمامها الى نفس أخرى تماثلها بالشعور وتشاركها بالإحساس مثلما يستأنس الغريب بالغريب في أرض بعيدة عن وطنهما - فالقلوب التي تدنيها أوجاع الكآبة بعضها من بعض لا تفرقها بهجة الأفراح وبهرجتها. فرابطة الحزن أقوى في النفوس من روابط الغبطة والسرور. والحب الذي تغسله العيون بدموعها يظلّ طاهراً وجميلاً وخالداً." -Kahlil Gibran
"ليس لي أعداءٌ يا ربّ. فإن صار لي عدوٌ اجْعله مثلي قوَّةً كي يكون النَّصر للحقّ. " -Kahlil Gibran
"Tell your secret to the wind, but don't blame it for telling the trees." -Kahlil Gibran
"Is not the beautiful moon, that inspires poets, the same moon which angers the silence of the sea with a terrible roar?" -Kahlil Gibran
"إن صديقك هو كفاية حاجتك , و هو حقلك الذي تزرعه بالمحبة و تحصده بالشكر , هو مائدتك و موقدك , لأنك تأتي إليها جائعا , و تسعى وراءه مستدفئا ." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your soul is oftentimes a battlefield, upon your reason and your judgment wage war against your passion and your appetite." -Kahlil Gibran
"حينما تتوق إلى نعمه لا تعرف لها اسما ,وحينما تحزن دون أن تدري لذللك سببا , فأنت في الحق تنمو مع كل ما ينمو وترتفع إلى ذاتك الكبرى" -Kahlil Gibran
"He who seeks ecstasy in love should not complain of suffering." -Kahlil Gibran
"أتعلمين , يا مي , أني ما فكرت في الانصراف ( الذي يسميه الناس موتاً ) إلا وجدت في التفكير لذة غريبة وشعرت بشوق هائل إلى الرحيل . ولكني أعود فأذكر أن في قلبي كلمة لا بد من قولها فأحار بين عجزي واضطراري وتغلق أمامي الأبواب " -Kahlil Gibran
"من غرابة التبسيط أنني أحياناً أتعرَّض للظلم والخداع فأضحك ممَّن يظنُّ أنَّني لا أعرف أنَّني ظُلِمْتُ وخُدِعْت. " -Kahlil Gibran
"Yesterday we obeyed kings and bent our necks before emperors. But today we kneel only to truth, follow only beauty, and obey only love." -Kahlil Gibran
"Life without liberty is like a body without spirit." -Kahlil Gibran
" أنت تحيين فيَّ وأنا أحيا فيكِ , أنتِ تعلمين ذلك وأنا أعلم ذلك""." -Kahlil Gibran
"من تُحب ليس ' نصفك ' الآخر هو أنت كلّك في مكان آخر.. في نفس الوقت" -Kahlil Gibran
"ما أجهل الناس الذين يتوهمون أن المحبة الصادقة بكل أشكالها تتولد بالمعاشرة الطويلة والمرافقة المستمرة …إن المحبة الحقيقية هي ابنة التفاهم الروحي ..وإن لم يتم هذا التفاهم بلحظة واحدة ، لا يتم بعام ولا باجيأل كاملة." -Kahlil Gibran
"لن أكون الأصغر بين من يحلمون ويرغبون بتحقيق أحلامهم، ولن أكون الأعظم بين من لا يحلمون. " -Kahlil Gibran
"The most pitiful among men is he who turns his dreams into silver and gold." -Kahlil Gibran
"For even as love crowns you so shall he crucify you. Even as he is for your growth so is he for your pruning. Even as he ascends to your height and caresses your tenderest branches that quiver in the sun, so shall he descend to your roots and shake them in their clinging to the earth." -Kahlil Gibran
"You often say; I would give, but only to the deserving, The trees in your orchard say not so, nor the flocks in your pasture.Surely he who is worthy to receive his days and nights is worthy of all else from you.And he who has deserved to drink from the ocean of life deserves to fill his cup from your little stream. See first that you yourself deserve to be a giver, and an instrument of giving.For in truth it is life that gives unto life-while you, who deem yourself a giver, is but a witness." -Kahlil Gibran
" لا تنس أن البحر مؤلف من قطرات وان في كل قطرة كل ما في البحر من معاني..." -Kahlil Gibran
"When you are joyous, look deep into your heart and you shall find it is only that which has given you sorrow that is giving you joy. When you are sorrowful look again in your heart, and you shall see that in truth you are weeping for that which has been your delight." -Kahlil Gibran
"لا تنسى و أنت تعطي أن تدير ظهرك عن من تعطيه كي لا ترى حيائه عاريا أمام عينيك" -Kahlil Gibran
"إذا الحب اوما إليكم فاتبعوه حتى وان كانت مسالكه وعرة وكثيرة المزالقوإذا الحب لفكم بجناحيه فاطمئنوا اليه حتى وان جرحتكم النصال المخبوءه تحت قوادمهوإذا الحب خاطبكم فصدقوه حتى وان عبث صوته باحلامكم كما تعبث ريح الشمال بازهار الحديقة" -Kahlil Gibran
"Of the good in you I can speak, but not of the evil.For what is evil but good tortured by its own hunger and thirst?Verily when good is hungry it seeks food even in dark caves, and when it thirsts it drinks even of dead waters." -Kahlil Gibran
"Our anxiety does not come from thinking about the future, but from wanting to control it." -Kahlil Gibran
"بعضنا كالحبر وبعضنا كالورق فلولا سواد بعضنا لكان البياض أصم و لولا بياض بعضنا لكان السواد أعمى" -Kahlil Gibran
"لقد أبتسمت كثيراً منذ هذا الصباح , وها انا أبتسم في أعماقي , وأبتسم في كليتي, وأبتسم طويلاً , وأبتسم كأنني لم أخلق الا للابتسام" -Kahlil Gibran
"Let me, O let me bathe my soul in colours; let me swallow the sunset and drink the rainbow." -Kahlil Gibran
"Oftentimes we call Life bitter names, but only when we ourselves are bitter and dark. And we deem her empty and unprofitable, but only when the soul goes wandering in desolate places, and the heart is drunken with overmindfulness of self.Life is deep and high and distant; and though only your vast vision can reach even her feet, yet she is near; and though only the breath of your breath reaches her heart, the shadow of your shadow crosses her face, and the echo of your faintest cry becomes a spring and an autumn in her breast.And life is veiled and hidden, even as your greater self is hidden and veiled. Yet when Life speaks, all the winds become words; and when she speaks again, the smiles upon your lips and the tears in your eyes turn also into words. When she sings, the deaf hear and are held; and when she comes walking, the sightless behold her and are amazed and follow her in wonder and astonishment." -Kahlil Gibran
"Do not fear the thorns in your path, for they draw only corrupt blood." -Kahlil Gibran
"Modern civilization has made woman a little wiser, but it has increased her suffering because of man's covetousness. The woman of yesterday was a happy wife, but the woman of today is a miserable mistress. In the past she walked blindly in the light, but now she walks open-eyed in the dark. She was beautiful in her ignorance, virtuous in her simplicity, and strong in her weakness. Today she has become ugly in her ingenuity, superficial and heartless in her knowledge. Will the day ever come when beauty and knowledge, ingenuity and virtue, and weakness of body and strength of spirit will be united in a woman?" -Kahlil Gibran
"تقولين لي أنك تخافين الحب لماذا تخافينه يا صغيرتي ؟ أتخافين نور الشمس ؟أتخافين مدّ البحر ؟ أتخافين طلوع الفجر ؟ أتخافين مجيء الربيع؟لماذا يا ترى تخافين الحب ؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"Your joy is your sorrow unmasked." -Kahlil Gibran
"When you love you should not say, 'God is in my heart,' but rather, 'I am in the heart of God." -Kahlil Gibran
"الصداقة مسئولية لذيذة أبدا .. وليست الصداقة فرصة للنفعيين." -Kahlil Gibran
"بربك لا تحاول ستر أخطائك الغريزية بإستعراض فضائلك المكتسبة، فإني أوثر هذه الأخطاء بعينها، فما أقربها شبهاً بأخطائي" -Kahlil Gibran
"Strange, the desire for certain pleasures is a part of my pain." -Kahlil Gibran
"وعظتني نفسي فعلمتني أن لا أطرب لمديح ولا أجزع لمذمة . وقبل أن تعظني نفسي كنت أظل مرتابا في قيمة أعمال وقدرها حتى تنبعث إليها الأيام بمن يقرظها أو يهجوها . أما الآن فقد عرفت أن الأشجار تزهر في الربيع وتثمر في الصيف ولا مطمع لها بالثناء . وتنثر أوراقها في الخريف وتتعرى في الشتاء ولا تخشى الملامة" -Kahlil Gibran
"Love descends upon our souls by the will of God and not by the demand or the plea of the individual." -Kahlil Gibran
"السلاحف أكثر خبرة بالطرق من الأرانب..." -Kahlil Gibran
"ما أجهل الناس الذين يتوهمون أن المحبة تتولد بالمعاشرة الطويلة و المرافقة المستمرة, إن المحبة الحقيقية هي ابنة التفاهم الروحي و إن لم يتم هذا التفاهم بلحظة واحدة, لا يتم بعام ولا بجيل كامل." -Kahlil Gibran
"To measure you by your smallest deed is to reckon the ocean by the frailty of its foam.To judge you by your failures is to cast blame upon the seasons for their inconsistencies." -Kahlil Gibran
"..عرفت أن سعادة المرأة ليست بمجد الرجل وسؤدده، ولا بكرمه وحلمه، بل بالحب الذي يضم روحها إلى روحه، ويسكب عواطفها في كبده، ويجعلها ويجعله عضواً واحداً من جسم الحياة.." -Kahlil Gibran
"Love is the only freedom in the world because it so elevates the spirit that the laws of humanity and the phenomena of nature do not alter its course." -Kahlil Gibran
"Love and Doubt are not on speaking terms" -Kahlil Gibran
"Observe the wonders as they occur around you.Don't claim them. Feel the artistry moving through and be silent." -Kahlil Gibran
"كلنا وحيد منفرد... كلنا سر خفي ... كلنا محجوب بألف نقاب ونقاب ... وما الفرق بين مستوحد ومستوحد .. سوى أن الأول يتكلم عن وحدته والثاني يظل صامتاً... وقد يكون في الكلام بعض الراحة ... وقد يكون في الصمت بعض الفضيلة...!!" -Kahlil Gibran
"You were born together, and together you shall be for evermore...But let there be spaces in your togetherness...Love one another, but make not a bond of love. Let it rather be a moving sea between the shores of your souls. Fill each other's cup but drink not from one cup. Give one another of your bread but eat not of the same loaf. Sing and dance together and be joyous, but let each one of you be alone, Even as the strings of a lute are alone though they quiver with the same music." -Kahlil Gibran
"أنت اثنان: واحد يتوهم أنه يعرف نفسه، وواحد يتوهم أن الناس يعرفونه." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your clothes conceal much of your beauty, yet they hide not the unbeautiful." -Kahlil Gibran
"الرغبة نصف الحياة ، أما عدم الإكتراث فنصف الموت" -Kahlil Gibran
"ما إن يعظم فرحك أو شجنك حتى تمسى الدنيا صغيرة فى عينيك" -Kahlil Gibran
"أيها المراؤون، توقفوا عن الدفاع عن الله بقتل الإنسان، ودافعوا عن الإنسان كى يتمكن من التعرف إلى الله" -Kahlil Gibran
"وإذا الحب أومأ إليكم فاتبعوه حتى وإن كانت مسالكه وعرة وكثيرة المزالق .وإذا الحب لفكم بجناحيه فاطئنوا إليه، حتى وإن جرحتكم النصال المخبوءة تحت قوادمه.وإذا الحب خاطبكم فصدقوه، حتى وإن عبث صوته بأحلامكم كما تعبث ريح الشمال بأزهار الحديقة .و مثلما يتسلق الحب أعاليكم فيدغدغ أغصانكم اللدنة المرتعشة في الشمس ، هكذا ينحدر إلى أعماقكم فيهز جذوركم في الأرض هزاً عنيفاً ." -Kahlil Gibran
"أتطلب مني الصبر والتجلد وفي عينيك معنى اليأس والقنوط؟ أيعطي الفقير الجائع خبزه إلى الجائع الفقيرهل يتعزى كسير القلب بالقلب الكسير" -Kahlil Gibran
"العظيم حقا مَنْ لا يبغي أن يسود أحدًا، ولا يحب أن يسوده أحد." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your pain is the breaking of the shell that encloses your understanding." -Kahlil Gibran
"أنت لست بصاحبي، يا صاح ! ولكن كيف السبيل لإقناعك فتفقه وتفهم ؟إن طريقي غير طريقك ولكننا نمشي معاً جنباً إلى جنب ." -Kahlil Gibran
"من لا يحترم صمتك ، لا يحفل بكلامك !" -Kahlil Gibran
"أن الله لا يريد أن يكون معبوداً من الجاهل الذي يقلد غيره" -Kahlil Gibran
"For what is it to die but to stand naked in the wind and to melt into the sun?And what is it to cease breathing but to free the breath from its restless tides, that it may rise and expand and seek God unencumbered?Only when you drink from the river of silence shall you indeed sing.And when you have reached the mountaintop,then you shall begin to climb.And when the earth shal claim your limbs,then shall you truly dance." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن الملامح التي تبيح أسرار الذات المعنوية تكسب الوجه جمالاً وملاحة مهما كانت تلك الأسرار موجعة و أليمة . أما الوجوه التي لا تتكلم بصمتها عن غوامض النفس وخفاياها فلا تكون جميلة مهما كانت متناسقة الخطوط و الأعضاء ." -Kahlil Gibran
"When you are sorrowful look again in your heart, and you shall see that in truth you are weeping for that which has been your delight. Some of you say, ""Joy is greater than sorrow,"" and others say, ""Nay, sorrow is the greater.""But I say unto you, they are inseparable. Together they come, and when one sits alone with you at your board, remember that the other is asleep upon your bed. Verily you are suspended like scales between your sorrow and your joy." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your hearts know in silence the secrets of the days and the nights." -Kahlil Gibran
"Generosity is not in giving me that which I need more than you do, but it is in giving me that which you need more than I do." -Kahlil Gibran
"The feelings we live throughin love and in lonelinessare simply, for us,what high tideand low tide are to the sea." -Kahlil Gibran
"You shall be free indeed when your days are not without a care, nor your nights without a want and a grief, but rather when these things girdle your life and yet you rise above them naked and unbound." -Kahlil Gibran
"ولا تقل في ذاتك : "" قد وجدت الحق "" بل قل بالأحرى : "" قد وجدت حقا" -Kahlil Gibran
"الحب سعادة ترتعش" -Kahlil Gibran
"ما بالنا نتجادل فيما سيؤول إليه أمرنا فى المستقبل فى حين أننا لا نعرف ما نحن عليه اليوم ؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"فعلى قدر ما يغوص الحزن في أعماقكم يزيد ما تستوعبون من فرح، أليست الكأس التي تحمل خمركم هي هي الكأس التي احترقت في اتون الفخارى؟ و أليست القيثارة التي تسكن إليها نفوسكم هي هي قطعه الخشب التي حفرتها السكين" -Kahlil Gibran
"All that spirits desire, spirits attain." -Kahlil Gibran
"For thought is a bird of space, that in a cage of words may indeed unfold its wings but cannot fly." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your reason and your passion are your rudder and sails of your seafaring soul, if either your sails or your rudder be broken, you can but toss and drift, or else be held at a standstill in mid-seas. For reason, ruling alone, is a force confining; and passion, unattended, is a flame that burns to its own destruction." -Kahlil Gibran
"هل يكــتــفــي المشتـــاق بعنــاق الخيــال و يرتـــوي الظمـــان من جــداول الاحــلام." -Kahlil Gibran
"Love has no other desire but to fulfill itself. But if to love and must needs have desires, let these be your desires: to melt and be like a running brook that sings its melody to the night. To know the pain of too much tenderness. To be wounded by your own understanding of love; and to bleed willingly and joyfully. To wake at dawn with a winged heart and give thanks for another day of loving; to rest at noon and meditate love's ecstasy; to return home at eventide with gratitude; and then to sleep with a prayer for the beloved in your heart and a song of praise upon your lips." -Kahlil Gibran
"A friend who is far away is sometimes much nearer than one who is at hand" -Kahlil Gibran
"Your children are not your children. They are the sons and daughters of Life's longing for itself. They come through you but not from you. You may give them your love but not your thoughts. For they have their own thoughts." -Kahlil Gibran
"ليست الحياة بسطوحها بل بخفاياها .. ولا المرئيات بقشورها بل بلبابها .. ولا الدين بما تظهره المعابد وتبنيه الطقوس والتقاليد بل بما يختبىء في النفوس ويتجوهر بالنيات ولا الناس بوجوههم بل بقلوبهم" -Kahlil Gibran
"I would not exchange the laughter of my heart for the fortunes of the multitudes." -Kahlil Gibran
"ومن لا يؤثر النفي على الاستعباد لا يكون حراً بما في الحرية من الحق والواجب" -Kahlil Gibran
"We wanderers, ever seeking the lonelier way, begin no day where we have ended another day; and no sunrise finds us where sunset left us." -Kahlil Gibran
"You cannot laugh and be unkind at the same time" -Kahlil Gibran
"إذا رضيت فعبّر عن رضاك، لا تصطنع نصف رضا، وإذا رفضت.. فعبّر عن رفضك، لأن نصف الرفض قبول..النصف هو حياة لم تعشها، وهو كلمة لم تقلها، وهو ابتسامة أجّلتها، وهو حب لم تصل إليه، وهو صداقة لم تعرفها.. النصف هو ما يجعلك غريباً عن أقرب الناس إليك،وهو ما يجعل أقرب الناس إليك غرباء عنك، النصف هو أن تصل وأن لاتصل، أن تعمل وأن لا تعمل، أن تغيب وأن تحضر.. النصف هو أنت، عندما لا تكون أنت.. لأنك لم تعرف من أنت. النصف هو أن لا تعرف من أنت .. ومن تحب ليس نصفك الآخر.. هو أنت في مكان آخر في الوقت نفسه!!..نصف شربة لن تروي ظمأك،ونصف وجبة لن تشبع جوعك، نصف طريق لن يوصلك إلى أي مكان، ونصف فكرة لن تعطي لك نتيجة.. النصف هو لحظة عجزك وأنت لست بعاجز.. لأنك لست نصف إنسان. أنت إنسان.. وجدت كي تعيش الحياة، وليس كي تعيش نصف حياة!" -Kahlil Gibran
"الحق يُعرف فى كل حال و لا يُنطق به إلا فى بعض الأحوال" -Kahlil Gibran
"فالقلوب التي تدنيها أوجاع الكآبة بعضها من بعض لا تفرِّقها بهجة الأفراح وبهرجتها.فرابطة الحزن أقوى في النفوس من روابط الغبطة والسرور. والحب الذي تغسله العيونبدموعها يظل طاهرًا وجميلًا وخالدًا." -Kahlil Gibran
"إذا صــــمت صديقـــــك ولم يتكــــلم, فلا ينقــــطع قـــــلبك عن الإصــــغاء إلىصـــــوت قـــلبه;لأن الــــصداقة لا تحتـــــاج إلى الألفــــاظ والعـــــبارات في إنمــاء جـــميع...الأفكــــار والرغـــــبات والتــــمنياتالتــــي يشـــترك الأصدقــــاء بـــــفرح عـــــظيم في قـــــطف ثمــــــارهااليانعـــــات....وإن فـــــارقت صديقـــــك فــــــلا تحـــــزن على فــــراقه;لأن ما تتعشــــقه فيه, أكثر من كـــــل شيء ســـــواه....قـــد يكون فــــي حين غـــــيابه أوضـــــح في عينـــــي محـــــبتك منه فـــــيحــــين حـــــضوره....لأن الجــــبل يــــبدو لــــمن ينظر إلــــيه من الســــهل أكثر وضـــــوحا ممايظـــــهر لمن يتســـــلقه......." -Kahlil Gibran
"أشفق يا رب وشدد جميع الأجنحة المتكسرة" -Kahlil Gibran
"أشفق يا رب وشدد جميع الأجنحة المتكسرة" -Kahlil Gibran
"المحبة هي الحرية الوحيدة في هذا العالم لأنها ترفع النفس إلى مقام سام لا تبلغه شرائع البشر وتقاليدهم، ولا تسود عليه نواميس الطبيعة وأحكامها" -Kahlil Gibran
"لا أريد شيئا وأريد كل شىء." -Kahlil Gibran
"الحب لا يعطي إلا من نفسه، ولا يأخذ إلا من نفسه .والحب لا يملك، ولا يطيق أن يكون مملوكاً ، وحسب الحب أنه حب .إذا أحب أحدكم فلا يقولن :""إن الله في قلبي"" وليقل بالأحرى :""إنني في قلب الله"" .ولا يخطرن لكم ببال أن في مستطاعكم توجيه الحب بل إن الحب ، إذا وجدكم مستحقين ، هو الذي يوجهكم ." -Kahlil Gibran
"I am the lover's gift; I am the wedding wreath;I am the memory of a moment of happiness;I am the last gift of the living to the dead;I am a part of joy and a part of sorrow." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your pain is the breaking of the shell that encloses your understanding.Even as the stone of the fruit must break, that its heart may stand in the sun, so must you know pain.Much of your pain is self-chosen.It is the bitter potion by which the physician within you heals your sick self.Therefore trust the physician, and drink his remedy in silence and tranquillity:For his hand, though heavy and hard, is guided by the tender hand of the Unseen,And the cup he brings, though it burn your lips, has been fashioned of the clay which the Potter has moistened with His own sacred tears." -Kahlil Gibran
"We live only to discover beauty. All else is a form of waiting" -Kahlil Gibran
"يا صاحبي :إنني لست على ما يبدو لك مني ، فما مظاهري سوى رداء دقيق الصنع محوك من خيوط التساهل والحسنى ، ألتف به ليدرأ عني تطفلك ويقيك من إهمالي وتغافلي . وأما ذاتي الخفية الكبرى التي أدعوها أنا فسر غامض مكنون في أعماق سكون نفسي ولا يدركه أحد سواي ، وهنالك سيبقى أبدا غامضا مستترا .يا صاحبي: إنني أود أن لا تصدق ما أقول وأن لا تثق بما أفعل ، لأن أقوالي ليست سوى صدى لأفكارك، وأفعالي ليست سوى أشباح آمالك ." -Kahlil Gibran
"The earth delights to feel your bare feet and the winds long to play with your hair." -Kahlil Gibran
"الحب الذي لا يتجدد في كل يوم وليلة الى شكل من أشكال قوة الاستمرار ينقلب الى عبودية." -Kahlil Gibran
"When you were a wandering desire in the mist, I too was there, a wandering desire. Then we sought one another, and out of our eagerness dreams were born. And dreams were time limitless, and dreams were space without measure." -Kahlil Gibran
"Love provided me with a tongue and tears." -Kahlil Gibran
"كانت المرأة بالأمس عمياء تسير في نور النهار ، فأصبحت مبصرة تسير في ظلمة الليل ...!" -Kahlil Gibran
"Men who do not forgive women their little faults will never enjoy their great virtues." -Kahlil Gibran
"It is well to give when asked, but it is better to give unasked, through understanding; and to the open-handed the search for one who shall receive is joy greater than giving." -Kahlil Gibran
"Life is an island in an ocean of solitude and seclusion.Life is an island, rocks are its desires, trees its dreams, and flowers its loneliness, and it is in the middle of an ocean of solitude and seclusion.Your life, my friend, is an island separated from all other islands and continents. Regardless of how many boats you send to other shores, you yourself are an island separated by its own pains,secluded its happiness and far away in its compassion and hidden in its secrets and mysteries.I saw you, my friend, sitting upon a mound of gold, happy in your wealth and great in your riches and believing that a handful of gold is the secret chain that links the thoughts of the people with your own thoughts and links their feeling with your own.I saw you as a great conqueror leading a conquering army toward the fortress, then destroying and capturing it.On second glance I found beyond the wall of your treasures a heart trembling in its solitude and seclusion like the trembling of a thirsty man within a cage of gold and jewels, but without water.I saw you, my friend, sitting on a throne of glory surrounded by people extolling your charity, enumerating your gifts, gazing upon you as if they were in the presence of a prophet lifting their souls up into the planets and stars. I saw you looking at them, contentment and strength upon your face, as if you were to them as the soul is to the body.On the second look I saw your secluded self standing beside your throne, suffering in its seclusion and quaking in its loneliness. I saw that self stretching its hands as if begging from unseen ghosts. I saw it looking above the shoulders of the people to a far horizon, empty of everything except its solitude and seclusion.I saw you, my friend, passionately in love with a beautiful woman, filling her palms with your kisses as she looked at you with sympathy and affection in her eyes and sweetness of motherhood on her lips; I said, secretly, that love has erased his solitude and removed his seclusion and he is now within the eternal soul which draws toward itself, with love, those who were separated by solitude and seclusion.On the second look I saw behind your soul another lonely soul, like a fog, trying in vain to become a drop of tears in the palm of that woman.Your life, my friend, is a residence far away from any other residence and neighbors.Your inner soul is a home far away from other homes named after you. If this residence is dark, you cannot light it with your neighbor's lamp; if it is empty you cannot fill it with the riches of your neighbor; were it in the middle of a desert, you could not move it to a garden planted by someone else.Your inner soul, my friend, is surrounded with solitude and seclusion. Were it not for this solitude and this seclusion you would not be you and I would not be I. If it were not for that solitude and seclusion, I would, if I heard your voice, think myself to be speaking; yet, if I saw your face, i would imagine that I were looking into a mirror." -Kahlil Gibran
"True beauty is a rayThat springs from the sacred depths of the soul,and illuminates the body, just as lifesprings from the kernel of a stone andgives colour and scent to a flower." -Kahlil Gibran
"الفكر طائر ان سُجن فى قفص الكلام تعذر علية أن يطير" -Kahlil Gibran
"Let there be spaces in your togetherness" -Kahlil Gibran
"و لكنك عبد لمن أحببت لأنك تحبه و عبد لمن أحبّكَ لأنه يحبك" -Kahlil Gibran
"Beauty is life when life unveils her holy face. But you are life and you are the veil. Beauty is eternity gazing at itself in a mirror. But you are eternity and you are the mirror." -Kahlil Gibran
"أبداً تغشانا موجة الكلام، غير أن أعماقنا تلزم الصمت أبداً" -Kahlil Gibran
"And your fragrance shall be my breath,And together we shall rejoice through all the seasons." -Kahlil Gibran
"للبحر مد وجزر، وللقمر نقص وكمال، وللزمن صيف وشتاء، أما الحق فلا يحول ولا يزول ولا يتغير٠" -Kahlil Gibran
"But if in your fear you would seek only love's peace and love's pleasure, then it is better for you that you cover your nakedness and pass out of love's threshing-floor, into the seasonless world where you shall laugh, but not all of your laughter, and weep, but not all of your tears." -Kahlil Gibran
"For life and death are one, even as the river and the sea are one." -Kahlil Gibran
"النفس التي ترى ظل الله مرّة لا تخشى بعد ذلك أشباح الأبالسة ، والعين التي تكتحل بلمحة واحدة من الملأ الأعلى لا تُغمضها أوجاع هذا العالم ." -Kahlil Gibran
"Only when you drink from the river of silence shall you indeed sing." -Kahlil Gibran
"ربنا وإلهنا ،،إننا لا نستطيع أن نلتمس منك حاجة ،، لأنك تعرف حاجتنا قبل أن تولد في أعماقنا ،، أنت حاجتنا ،، وكلما زدتنا من ذاتك زدتنا من كل شئ" -Kahlil Gibran
"أنا غريبٌ في هذا العالم. أنا غريبٌ و في الغربة وحدةٌ قاسيةٌ و وحشةٌ موجعةٌ، غير أنها تجعلني أفكر أبدًا بِوطنٍ سحريٍ لا أعرفه، و تملأ أحلامي بأشباحِ أرضٍ قصيةٍ ما رأتها عيني." -Kahlil Gibran
"قاتل الجسم مقتول بفعلته .... وقاتل الروح لا تدرى به البشر !!" -Kahlil Gibran
"Let there be no purpose in friendship save the deepening of the spirit. " -Kahlil Gibran
"Faith is a knowledge within the heart, beyond the reach of proof." -Kahlil Gibran
"ليتني كنت بئراً جافاً والناس ترمي بي الحجارة فذلك اهون من ان اكون ينبوع ماء حي والظامئون يجتازونني ولا يستقون" -Kahlil Gibran
"إن الذين يناولونك حية حين تسألهم سمكة قد لا يملكون غير الحيات ليُقدموها . فهو إذن من جانبهم سخاء." -Kahlil Gibran
"You may chain my hands, you may shackle my feet; you may even throw me into a dark prison; but you shall not enslave my thinking, because it is free!" -Kahlil Gibran
"إننا إنما نعيش لنهتدي إلى الجمال، وكل ما عدا ذلك.. هو لون من ألوان الإنتظار" -Kahlil Gibran
"اذا بلغت غاية مايجب أن تعرفه , فأنت على عتبة ما يجب أن تشعر به." -Kahlil Gibran
"يجب أن تعرف الحقيقة أبدًا وتقولها بعض المرات" -Kahlil Gibran
"كثيراً ما أوصلني إلى البغضاء دفاعي عن نفسي، لو كنت أقوى لما لجأت إلى هذه الوسيلة. " -Kahlil Gibran
"ليس مَن يُصغي إلى الحقِّ بأقلَّ مِمَّن ينطقه" -Kahlil Gibran
"When you work you fulfill a part of earth's furthest dream, assigned to you when that dream was born,And what is it to work with love?It is to weave the cloth with threads drawn from your heart, even as if your beloved were to wear that cloth.It is to build a house with affection, even as if your beloved were to dwell in that house.It is to sow seeds with tenderness and reap the harvest with joy, even as if your beloved were to eat the fruit.It is to charge all things you fashion with a breath of your own spirit.Work is love made visible" -Kahlil Gibran
"عندما تصل إلى جوهر الحياة ستحس الجمالفي كل شئ , حتى في العيون حتى في العيون التي عميت عن رؤية الجمال" -Kahlil Gibran
"وعندما تأخذكم سورة الفرح تطلعوا إلى أعماق قلوبكم تجدوا أن الذي سبب لكم الفرح الآن هو عين الذي جاءكم منه الحزن في ما مضى .وعندما تطغى عليكم موجة من الحزن ، فتشوا قلوبكم كذلك. وستدركون أنكم تبكون في الواقع ذلك الذي كان مصدر بهجة لكم سابقاً ." -Kahlil Gibran
"يا أخي لا تستدل على حقيقة امرىء بما بان منه .. ولا تتخذ قول امرىء او عملا من اعماله عنوانا لطويته .. فرب من تستهجله لثقل في لسانه وركاكة في لهجته كان وجدانه منهاجاً للفطن وقلبه مهبطاً للوحي و رب من تحترقه لدمامة في وجهه وخساسة في عيشه كان في الارض هبة من هبات السماء وفي الناس نفحة من نفحات الله" -Kahlil Gibran
"Doubt is a pain too lonely to know that faith is his twin brother." -Kahlil Gibran
"لا تفكر أنك تستطيع أن توجه الحب في مساره، فالحب، إن وجدك جديراً به، هو الذي يوجّه مسارك." -Kahlil Gibran
"تقولين لي أنك تخافين الحب. لماذا تخافينه يا صغيرتي؟ أتخافين نور الشمس؟ أتخافين مدَّ البحر؟ أتخافين طلوع الفجر؟ أتخافين مجيء الربيع؟ لما يا ترى تخافين الحب؟.أنا أعلم أن القليل في الحب لا يرضيك، كما أعلم أن القليل في الحب لا يرضيني. أنت وأنا لا ولن نرضى بالقليل. نحن نريد الكثير. نحن نريد كل شيء. نحن نريد الكمال.لا تخافي الحب يا ماري، لا تخافي الحب يا رفيقة قلبي، علينا أن نستسلم إليه رغم ما فيه من الألم والحنين والوحشة ورغم ما فيه من الالتباس والحيرة." -Kahlil Gibran
"من يدري اذا لم تكن الجنازة بين الناس عرساً بين الملائكة؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"إن البلبل لا يحوكُ عُشًا في القفص ، كيلا يُورّث العبودية لفراخه." -Kahlil Gibran
"For in the dew of little things the heart finds its morning and is refreshed." -Kahlil Gibran
"يعانق المتحابان ما بينهما ""من ود"" أكثر مما يعانق أحدهما الآخر" -Kahlil Gibran
"وأيُّ وَالدٍ لا يَشُقُّ عليه فراقُ ابنتِه حتَّى ولو كَانت ذَاهبةً إلى بَيتِ جَارِه أو إلى قَصرِ مَلكٍ؟ أيُّ رجُلٍ لا تَرتَعشُ أعمَاقُ نفسِه بِالغَصَّاتِ عِندَما يَفصِلُه نَاموسُ الطَبيعةِ عن الابنةِ التي لاعَبَها طِفلةً وهذَّبَها صَبِيَّةً ورَافَقَها امرَأة؟ إنَّ كآبةَ الوالدَيْن لزوَاجِ الابنةِ يُضارعُ فرحَهُما بِزوَاجِ الابن، لأنَّ هَذَا ُيكسِبُ العَائلةَ عُضوًا جَديدًا، أمَّا ذَاك فيَسلُبُها عُضوًا قَدِيمًا عَزيزًا." -Kahlil Gibran
"ان في داخل الارواح اسراراً غامضة لا تكشفها الظنون ولا يبوح بها التخمين" -Kahlil Gibran
"إن العواصف والثلوج تفني الزهور ولكنها لا تميت بذورها" -Kahlil Gibran
"ان الخوف من الحاجة هو الحاجة بعينها" -Kahlil Gibran
"رحّالة أنا وملاّح ، ومع مطلع كل يوم ينكشف لي في روحي إقليم جديد" -Kahlil Gibran
"منبر الإنسانية قلبها الصامت لا عقلها الثرثار." -Kahlil Gibran
"ماذا أقول عن كهوف روحي؟ تلك الكهوف التي تخيفك، إني التجئ إليها عندما أتعب من سبل الناس الواسعة وحقولهم المزهرة وغاياتهم المتعرشة، إني أدخل كهوف روحي عندما لا أجد مكانًا آخر أسند إليه رأسي، ولو كان لبعض من أحبهم الشجاعة لدخول تلك الكهوف لما وجدوا فيها سوى رجل راكع على ركبتيه وهو يصلي." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن عذاب النفس بثباتها أمام المصاعب والمتاعب لهو أشرف من تقهقرها إلى حيث الأمان والطمأنينة. فالفراشة التي تظل مرفوفة حول السراج حتى تحترق هي أسمى من الخلد الذي يعيش براحة وسلامة في نفقه المظلم." -Kahlil Gibran
"الاعتقاد شيء و العمل به شيء آخر. كثيرون هم الذين يتكلمون كالبحر أما حياتهم فشبيهة بالمستنقعات. كثيرون هم الذي يرفعون رؤوسهم فوق قمم الجبال أما نفوسهم فتبقى هاجعة في ظلمة الكهوف." -Kahlil Gibran
"If the other person injures you, you may forget the injury; but if you injure him you will always remember" -Kahlil Gibran
"الى الروح الذي عانقت روحي . الى القلب الذي سكب أسراره في قلبي .الى اليد التى أوقدت شعلة عواطفي" -Kahlil Gibran
"هؤلاء البشر الذين يجيئون من الابديه و يعودون اليها قبل ان يذوقوا طعم الحياه الحقيقيه لا يمكنهم ان يدركوا كنه اوجاع المراه عندما تقف نفسها بين رجل تحبه بارادة السماء و رجل تلتصق به بشريعه الارض.هي ماساه اليمه مكتوبه بدماء الانثى و دموعها يقرؤها الرجل ضاحكا لانه لا يفهمها وان فهمها انقلب ضحكه فجورا و قساوة و انزل وعلى راس المراه من غضبه نارا و كبريتا وملا اذنيها لعنا و تجذيفا" -Kahlil Gibran
"The hidden well-spring of your soul must needs rise and run murmuring to the sea;And the treasure of your infinite depths would be revealed to your eyes.But let there be no scales to weigh your unknown treasure;And seek not the depths of your knowledge with staff or sounding line.For self is a sea boundless and measureless.Say not, 'I have found the truth,' but rather, 'I have found a truth.'Say not, 'I have found the path of the soul.' Say rather, 'I have met the soul walking upon my path.'For the soul walks upon all paths.The soul walks not upon a line, neither does it grow like a reed.The soul unfolds itself, like a lotus of countless petals." -Kahlil Gibran
"* الكلام فى كل مكانفإلى اين يذهب من يريد الهدوء والسكينة ؟أيوجد فى هذا العالم طائفة من الخرسان لأنتمى إليها ؟هل يرحمنى الله ويمنحنى موهبة الطرش فأحيا سعيداً فى جنة السكون الأبدي ؟أليس على وجه الأرض البسيطة قرنة خالية من شقشقة اللسان وبلبلة الألسنة حيث الكلام لا يباع ولا يشري ولا يعطى ولا يأخذ ؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"أنا أعرف الوجوه،لأنني انظر إليها من خلال ماينسجهُ بصري فأرى الحقيقة التي وراءها بباصرتي" -Kahlil Gibran
"إن المحبة المحدودة تطلب امتلاك المحبوب ، أما المحبة غير المتناهيةة فلا تطلب غير ذاتها . المحبة التي تجيء بين يقظة الشباب وغفلته تستكفي باللقاء وقنع بالوصل وتنمو بالقبل و العناق ، أما المحبة التي تولد في أحضان اللانهاية وتهبط مع أسرار الليل فلا تقنع بغير الأبدية . ولا تستكفي بغير الخلود ولا تقف متهيبة أمام شيء سوى الألوهية .." -Kahlil Gibran
"الحُب كنز ثمين يودعه الله النفوس الكبيرة الحساسة" -Kahlil Gibran
"ما أتعس الرّجل الذي يحبّ صبيَّةً من بين الصَّبايا و يتَّخذها رفيقةً لحياته، و يهرق على قدميها عرق جبينه و دم قلبه، و يضع بين كفيها ثمار أتعابه و غلة اجتهاده، ثمَّ ينتبه فجأة فيجد قلبها الّذي حاول ابتياعه بمجاهدة الأيام و سهر الليالي قد أعطٍيَ مجاناً لرجل آخر ليتمتَّع بمكنوناته و يسعد بسرائر محبَّته" -Kahlil Gibran
"ما أكثر ما عزوت لنفسي جرائم لم أقترفها قط ، كي لا أحرج الغير فى مجلسي" -Kahlil Gibran
"الحق يحتاج إلى رجلين: رجل ينطق به ورجل يفهمه." -Kahlil Gibran
"ﻟﻴﺲ ﺣﺰﻥ ﺍﻟﻨﻔﺲ ﺇﻻ . . ظل وهم لا يدومﻭ ﻏﻴﻮﻡ ﺍﻟﻨﻔﺲ ﺗﺒﺪﻭ . . من ثناياها النجوم‏" -Kahlil Gibran
"ليس التقدم بتحسين ما كان .. بل بالسير نحو ما سيكون" -Kahlil Gibran
"The philosopher's soul dwells in his head, the poet's soul is in his heart; the singer's soul lingers about his throat, but the soul of the dancer abides in all her body." -Kahlil Gibran
"Love is quivering happiness." -Kahlil Gibran
"Where are you now, my beloved? Do you hear my weepingFrom beyond the ocean? Do you understand my need? Do you know the greatness of my patience?" -Kahlil Gibran
"الحب كلمة من نور خطّتها يد من نور على صفحة من نور" -Kahlil Gibran
"He who is more mindful of one, loses the love and the faith of both." -Kahlil Gibran
"للكآبة أيد حريرية الملامس قوية الأعصاب تقبض على القلوب وتؤلمها بالوحدة فالوحدة حليفة الكآبة كما أنها أليفة كل حرمة روحية" -Kahlil Gibran
"لا , لا ٔاريد ٔان يفهمني بشري ٕاذا كان فهمه ٕاياي ضرباً من العبودية المعنوية . وما ٔاكثر الذين يتوهمون ٔانهم يفهموننا لأنهم وجدوا في بعض مظاهرنا شئياً شبيهاً بما اختبروه مرة في حياتهم . وليتهم يكتفون بادعائهم ادراك ٔاسرارنا – تلك الأسرار التي نحن ذواتنا لا ندركها – ولكنهم يصموننا بعلامات و أرقام ثم يضعوننا علىٕ رف من رفوف ٔافكارهم واعتقاداتهم مثلما يفعل الصيدلي بقناني الدوية والمساحيق !" -Kahlil Gibran
"Let your home be you mast and not your anchor." -Kahlil Gibran
"وقد حاولتُ وباطلاً حاولت أن أتعلم محبته فلم أتعلم. لأن المحبة هي قوةٌ تبتدع قلوبنا، وقلوبنا لا تقدر أن تبتدعها" -Kahlil Gibran
"مِن قلْب آلـمـرأه الحسّآسْ .. تنبثِق سعآدة ـآلبـشَر" -Kahlil Gibran
"The lust for comfort kills the passions of the soul." -Kahlil Gibran
" ومنكم من يسعى إلى من يثرثرون؛ خشية الخلو إلى نفسه ؛ لأن سكون الوحدة يكشف لأعينهم خفايا ذواتهم العارية فيفرون منها . " -Kahlil Gibran
"I have never agreed with my other self wholly. The truth of the matter seems to lie between us." -Kahlil Gibran
"اسمعينا أيتها الحرية، ارحمينا يا ابنة أثينا، انقذينا يا أخت رومة، خلصينا يا رفيقة موسى، أسعفينا يا حبيبة محمد، علمينا يا عروسة يسوع، قوي قلوبنا لنحيى أو شددي سواعد أعدائنا علينا فنفنى وننقرض ونرتاح" -Kahlil Gibran
"But let there be spaces in your togetherness.And let the winds of the heavens dance between you.Love one another but make not a bond of love:Let it rather be a moving sea between the shores of your souls." -Kahlil Gibran
"ليس من يكتب بالحبر كمن يكتب بدم القلب." -Kahlil Gibran
"Truth is a deep kindness that teaches us to be content in our everyday life and share with the people the same happiness." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your soul is oftentimes a battlefield, upon which your reason and your judgment wage war against your passion and your appetite.Would that I could be the peacemaker in your soul, that I might turn the discord and the rivalry of your elements into oneness and melody.But how shall I, unless you yourselves be also the peacemakers, nay, the lovers of all your elements?Your reason and your passion are the rudder and the sails of your seafaring soul. If either your sails or your rudder be broken, you can but toss and drift, or else be held at a standstill in mid-seas.For reason, ruling alone, is a force confining; and passion, unattended, is a flame that burns to its own destruction.Therefore let your soul exalt your reason to the height of passion, that it may sing;And let it direct your passion with reason, that your passion may live through its own daily resurrection, and like the phoenix rise above its own ashes.I would have you consider your judgment and your appetite even as you would two loved guests in your house.Surely you would not honour one guest above the other; for he who is more mindful of one loses the love and the faith of both.Among the hills, when you sit in the cool shade of the white poplars, sharing the peace and serenity of distant fields and meadows -- then let your heart say in silence, ""God rests in reason.""And when the storm comes, and the mighty wind shakes the forest, and thunder and lightning proclaim the majesty of the sky -- then let your heart say in awe, ""God moves in passion.""And since you are a breath in God's sphere, and a leaf in God's forest, you too should rest in reason and move in passion." -Kahlil Gibran
"If your heart is a volcano, how shall you expect flowers to bloom?" -Kahlil Gibran
"النسيان شكل من اشكال الحريه .." -Kahlil Gibran
"I love you, my brother, whoever you are - whether you worship in a church, kneel in your temple, or pray in your mosque. You and I are children of one faith, for the diverse paths of religion are fingers of the loving hand of the one supreme being, a hand extended to all, offering completeness of spirit to all, eager to receive all." -Kahlil Gibran
"أنا ليل مسترسل منبسط هادىء مضطرب وليس لظلمتي بدء وليس لأعماقي نهاية، فإذا ما انتصبت الارواح متباهية بنور أفراحها تتعالى روحي متجمدة بظلام كآبتها" -Kahlil Gibran
"وعظتني نفسي فعلمتني حبّ ما يمقته الناس , ومصافاة من يضاغنونه , وأبانت لي أن الحب ليس بميزة في المحبّ بل في المحبوب . وقبل أن تعظني نفسي كان الحب بي خيطا دقيقا مشدودا بين وتدين متقاربين , أما الآن فقد تحول إلى هالة أولها آخرها وآخرها أولها تحيط بكل كائن وتتوسع ببطء لتضم كل ما سيكون" -Kahlil Gibran
"And in much of your talking, thinking is half murdered. For thought is a bird of space, that in a cage of words may indeed unfold its wings but cannot fly." -Kahlil Gibran
"انا وانتم مشغوفون بقشور "" انا "" و سطحيات "" انتم "" لذلك لا نبصر ما أسره الروح الى "" انا "" وما اخفاه الروح في "" انتم" -Kahlil Gibran
"Your clothes conceal much of your beauty, yet they hide not the unbeautiful. And though you seek in garments the freedom of privacy you may find in them a harness and a chain. Would that you could meet the sun and the wind with more of your skin and less of your rainment.  For the breath of life is in the sunlight and the hand of life is in the wind.  Some of you say 'It is the north wind who has woven the clothes we wear.' And I say, 'Ay, it was the north wind, but shame was his loom, and the softening of the sinews was his thread.' And when his work was done he laughed in the forest. Forget not that modesty is for a shield against the eye of the unclean. And when the unclean shall be no more, what were modesty but a fetter and a fouling of the mind? And forget not that the earth delights to feel your bare feet and the winds long to play with your hair." -Kahlil Gibran
"ما أنبل القلب الحزين الذي لا يمنعه حزنه على أن ينشد أغنية مع القلوب الفرحة!!" -Kahlil Gibran
"يأتي المساءفتضم الزهرةأوراقها وتناممعانقة شوقها,...و عندما يأتي الصباحتفتح شفتيهالاقتبال قبلة الشمس,فحياة الأزهارشوق ووصال," -Kahlil Gibran
"اذا تكلمت امرأتان فهما لا تعلنان شيئا .. واذا تكلمت امرأة واحدة فانها تعلن الحياة كلها" -Kahlil Gibran
"Defeat, my defeat, my deathless courage, You and I shall laugh together with the storm, And together we shall dig graves for all that die in us, and we shall stand in the sun with a will, And we shall be dangerous" -Kahlil Gibran
"A little while, a moment of rest upon the wind, and another woman shall bear me." -Kahlil Gibran
"A voice cannot carry the tongue and the lips that gave it wings. Alone must it seek the ether. And alone and without his nest shall the eagle fly across the sun." -Kahlil Gibran
"الصمت أرهب من الكلام و أصدق، و لكن ستأتينا ساعة نصمت فيها، فلماذا نصمت قبل أن تدق الساعة؟ .. سنصمت، و لكن لنتكلم الآن" -Kahlil Gibran
"A little knowledge that acts is worth infinitely more than much knowledge that is idle." -Kahlil Gibran
"الحب لا يعطي إلا ذاته، ولا يأخذ إلا من ذاته، وهو لا يَملِك ولا يُملًك، فحسبه أنّه الحب." -Kahlil Gibran
"كذا تتغير الأشياء أمام أعيننا بتغير عواطفنا، وهكذا نتوهم الأشياء متشحة بالسحر والجمال عندما لا يكون السحر والجمال إلا في نفوسنا" -Kahlil Gibran
"Self is a sea boundless and measureless." -Kahlil Gibran
"I am forever walking upon these shores,Betwixt the sand and the foam,The high tide will erase my foot prints,And the wind will blow away the foam,But the sea and the shore will remain forever." -Kahlil Gibran
"I would not exchange the sorrows of my heart for the joys of the multitude. And I would not have the tears that sadness makes to flow from my every part turn into laughter. I would that my life remain a tear and a smile." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن الحب يهبط على المرأة في لحظة سكون، مملوءة بالشك والإعجاب" -Kahlil Gibran
"My house says to me, ""Do not leave me, for here dwells your past.""And the road says to me, ""Come and follow me, for I am your future.""And I say to both my house and the road, ""I have no past, nor have I a future. If I stay here, there is a going in my staying; and if I go there is a staying in my going. Only love and death will change all things." -Kahlil Gibran
"You see but your shadow when you turn your back to the sun." -Kahlil Gibran
"ولد كالفكر، ومات كالتنهدة، واختفى كالظل" -Kahlil Gibran
"ما أعذب صغيرتي المحبوبة تذكرني في صلاتها كل يوم . ما أعذبها وما أكبر قلبها وما أجمل روحها.ولكن ما أغرب سكوت صغيرتي المحبوبة , ما أغرب سكوتها .ذلك السكوت الطويل كالابدية,العميق كاحلام الالهة ,ذلك السكوت الذي لا يترجم الى اية لغة بشرية" -Kahlil Gibran
"And all knowledge is vain save when there is work, and all work is empty save when there is love; and when you work with love you bind yourself to yourself, and to one another, and to God." -Kahlil Gibran
"أنا لا أبدل أحزان قلبي بأفراح الناس و لا أرضى أن تنقلب الدموع التي تستدرّها الكآبة من جوارحي و تصير ضحكا . أتمنى أن تبقى حياتي دمعة و ابتسامة : دمعة تطهر قلبي و تفهمني أسرار الحياة و غوامضها ، و ابتسامة تدنيني من أبناء بجدتي و تكون رمز تمجيدي الآلهة . دمعة أشارك بها منسحقي القلب ، و ابتسامة تكون عنوان فرحي بوجودي ." -Kahlil Gibran
"نصف ما أقوله لك لا معنى له، غير أني اقوله لعل النصف الآخر يبلغك" -Kahlil Gibran
"When you are joyous, look deep into your heart and you shall find it is only that which has given you sorrow that is giving you joy." -Kahlil Gibran
"When love beckons to you, follow him,Though his ways are hard and steep.And when his wings enfold you yield to him,Though the sword hidden among his pinions may wound you.And when he speaks to you believe in him,Though his voice may shatter your dreamsas the north wind lays waste the garden. For even as love crowns you so shall he crucify you. Even as he is for your growth so is he for your pruning.Even as he ascends to your height and caresses your tenderest branches that quiver in the sun,So shall he descend to your roots and shake them in their clinging to the earth. Like sheaves of corn he gathers you unto himself.He threshes you to make you naked.He sifts you to free you from your husks.He grinds you to whiteness.He kneads you until you are pliant;And then he assigns you to his sacred fire, that you may become sacred bread for God's sacred feast. All these things shall love do unto you that you may know the secrets of your heart, and in that knowledge become a fragment of Life's heart. But if in your fear you would seek only love's peace and love's pleasure,Then it is better for you that you cover your nakedness and pass out of love's threshing-floor,Into the seasonless world where you shall laugh, but not all of your laughter, and weep, but not all of your tears.Love gives naught but itself and takes naught but from itself.Love possesses not nor would it be possessed;For love is sufficient unto love. When you love you should not say, ""God is in my heart,"" but rather, ""I am in the heart of God.""And think not you can direct the course of love, for love, if it finds you worthy, directs your course. Love has no other desire but to fulfill itself.But if you love and must needs have desires, let these be your desires:To melt and be like a running brook that sings its melody to the night.To know the pain of too much tenderness.To be wounded by your own understanding of love;And to bleed willingly and joyfully.To wake at dawn with a winged heart and give thanks for another day of loving;To rest at the noon hour and meditate love's ecstasy;To return home at eventide with gratitude;And then to sleep with a prayer for the beloved in your heart and a song of praise upon your lips." -Kahlil Gibran
"How beautiful to find a heart that loves you, without asking you for anything, but to be okay." -Kahlil Gibran
"في كلِّ فردٍ منّا شخصان: واحدٌ يقظٌ في العتمة والآخر غافلٌ في النُّور. " -Kahlil Gibran
"Wisdom ceases to be wisdom when it becomes too proud to weep, too grave to laugh, and too selfish to seek other than itself." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your children are not your children.They are the sons and daughters of Life's longing for itself.They come through you but not from you,And though they are with you yet they belong not to you.You may give them your love but not your thoughts,For they have their own thoughts.You may house their bodies but not their souls,For their souls dwell in the house of tomorrow,which you cannot visit, not even in your dreams.You may strive to be like them,but seek not to make them like you.For life goes not backward nor tarries with yesterday." -Kahlil Gibran
"Pain is the breaking of the shell that encloses your understanding. " -Kahlil Gibran
"That deepest thing, that recognition, that knowledge, that sense of kinship began the first time I saw you,and it is the same now - only a thousand times deeper and tenderer. I shall love you to eternity. I loved you long before we met in this flesh. I knew that when I first saw you. It was destiny. We are together like this and nothing can shake us apart." -Kahlil Gibran
"طوبى للذين لا يبيتون أسرى ما يملكون، لأنهم سوف يضحون أحرارا.وطوبى لمن يذكرون أتراحهم، وفى أتراحهم يرقبون أفراحهم.وطوبى للذين يتضورون جوعاً وينشدون الحق والجمال، فسيكون لهم من جوعهم الخبر الذى يأكلون، ومن ظمئهم الماء القراح الذى يشربون.وطوبى لذوى الكرم والحلم، لهم من كرمهم وحلمهم خير عزاء وسلوى.وطوبى للذين قد طهرت قلوبهم، لأنهم لن يكونوا بعيدين من الله." -Kahlil Gibran
"Accept the seasons of your heart, even as you have always accepted the seasons that pass over your fields.And you would watch with serenity through the winters of your grief." -Kahlil Gibran
"Yes, there is a Nirvanah; it is leading your sheep to a green pasture, and in putting your child to sleep, and in writing the last line of your poem" -Kahlil Gibran
"God listens not to your words save when He Himself utters them through your lips." -Kahlil Gibran
"أعطني أذناً أعطك صوتاً .العقل إسفنجة , والقلب جدول .أفليس بالغريب أن أكثرنا يؤثرون الامتصاص على الإنطلاق ؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"Because the soul is like a flower that folds its petals when dark comes, and breathes not its fragrance into the phantoms of the night." -Kahlil Gibran
"فخفت لأول وهلة خوف فقير وجد جوهرة بقرب قصر الأمير فلم يجسر أن يلتقطها لخوفه، ولم يقدر أن يتركها لفاقته. وبكيت بكاء ظامىء رأى الينبوع العذب محاطاً بكواسر الغاب فارتمى على الأرض مترقباً جازعاً." -Kahlil Gibran
"How can I lose faith in the justice of life, when the dreams of those who sleep upon feathers are not more beautiful than the dreams of those who sleep upon the earth?" -Kahlil Gibran
"الإنسان متى جلس على عرش الملك فقد صار عبداًومتى أدرك الناس أعماق روحه فقد طوى كتاب حياتهومتى بلغ أوج كماله فقد قضي نحبهبل هو كالثمرة إذا نضجت سقطت واندثرت" -Kahlil Gibran
"كل ما يوجع النفوس الحساسة في هذا العالم...هوسوء التفاهم" -Kahlil Gibran
"وبين عبوسة النمر وابتسامة الذئب يفنى القطيع" -Kahlil Gibran
"It was but yesterday I thought myself a fragment quivering without rhythm in the sphere of life. Now I know that I am the sphere, and all life in rhythmic fragments moves within me." -Kahlil Gibran
"وقد يكون في الكلام بعض الراحة, وقد يكون في الصمت بعض الفضيلة." -Kahlil Gibran
"Remembrance is a form of meeting." -Kahlil Gibran
"All our words are but crumbs that fall down from the feast of the mind." -Kahlil Gibran
"وما الذكري سوى ورقة خريف لا ترتعش فى الهواء هنيهةحتى تُكّفن بالتراب دهراً" -Kahlil Gibran
"منذ ابتداء الدهر إلى أيامنا هذه، والفئة المتمسكة بالشرف الموروث تتحالف وتتفق مع الكهان ورؤساء الأديان على الشعب. هي علة مزمنة قابضة بأظفارها على عنق الجامعة البشرية، ولن تزول إلا بزوال الغباوة من هذا العالم عندما يصير عقل كل رجل ملكاً ويصبح قلب كل امرأة كاهناً. ابن الشرف الموروث يبني قصره من أجساد الفقراء الضعفاء. والكاهن يقيم الهيكل على قبور المؤمنين المستسلمين. الأمير يقبض على ذراعي الفلاح المسكين والكاهن يمد يده إلى جيبه. الحاكم ينظر إلى أبناء الحقول عابساً والمطران يلتفت نحوهم مبتسماً. وبين عبوسة المنر واتسامة الذئب يفنى القطيع. الحاكم يدعي تمثيل الشريعة والكاهن يدعي تمثيل الدين، وبين الاثنين تفنى الأجساد وتضمحل الأرواح." -Kahlil Gibran
"من يهوى النور فالنور يهواه." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your reason and your passion are the rudder and the sails of your seafaring soul.For reason, ruling alone, is a force confining; and passion, unattended, is a flame that burns to its own destruction.Therefore let your soul exalt your reason to the height of passion, that it may sing;And let it direct your passion with reason, that your passion may livethrough its own daily resurrection, and like the phoenix rise above its own ashes.And since you are a breath in God's sphere, and a leaf in God's forest, you too should rest in reason and move in passion." -Kahlil Gibran
"Vain are the beliefs and teachings that make man miserable, and false is the goodness that leads him into sorrow and despair, for it is man's purpose to be happy on this earth and lead the way to felicity and preach its gospel wherever he goes. He who does not see the kingdom of heaven in this life will never see it in the coming life. We came not into this life by exile, but we came as innocent creatures of God, to learn how to worship the holy and eternal spirit and seek the hidden secrets within ourselves from the beauty of life." -Kahlil Gibran
"And now you ask in your heart, ‘How shall we distinguish that which is good in pleasure from that which is not good?'Go to your fields and your gardens, and you shall learn that it is the pleasure of the bee to gather honey of the flower,But it is also the pleasure of the flower to yield its honey to the bee.For to the bee a flower is a fountain of life,And to the flower a bee is a messenger of love,And to both, bee and flower, the giving and the receiving of pleasure is a need and an ecstasy.*People of Orphalese, be in your pleasures like the flowers and the bees." -Kahlil Gibran
"ليس من يكتب بالحبر كمن يكتب بدم القلب و ليس السكوت الذي يحدثه الملل كالسكوت الذي يوجده الألم." -Kahlil Gibran
"وافرحي لأنني سأبقى بك حياً بعد موتي" -Kahlil Gibran
"The person you consider ignorant and insignificant is the one who came from God, that he might learn bliss from grief and knowledge from gloom" -Kahlil Gibran
"التسامح محبة أصابها التعالى" -Kahlil Gibran
"Thus with my lips have I denounced you, while my heart, bleeding within me, called you tender names." -Kahlil Gibran
"No man can reveal to you aught but that which already lies half asleep in the dawning of your knowledge." -Kahlil Gibran
"Have mercy on me, my Soul.You have shown me Beauty,But then concealed her.You and Beauty live in the light;Ignorance and I are bound together in the dark.Will e'er the light invade darkness?Your delight comes with the Ending,And you revel now in anticipation;But this body suffers with the lifeWhile in life.This, my Soul, is perplexing.You are hastening toward Eternity,But this body goes slowly toward perishment.You do not wait for him,And he cannot go quickly.This, my Soul, is sadness. You ascend high, though heaven's attraction,But this body falls by earth's gravity.You do not console him,And he does not appreciate you.This, my Soul, is misery.You are rich in wisdom,But this body is poor in understanding.You do not compromise,And he does not obey.This, my Soul, is extreme suffering.In the silence of the night you visit The BelovedAnd enjoy the sweetness of His presence.This body ever remains,The bitter victim of hope and separation.This, my Soul, is agonizing torture.Have mercy on me, my Soul!" -Kahlil Gibran
"Pity the nation whose statesman is a fox, whose philosopher is a juggler, and whose art is the art of patching and mimicking.Pity the nation that welcomes its new ruler with trumpetings, and farewells him with hootings, only to welcome another ruler with trumpetings again.Pity the nation whose sages are dumb with years and whose strong men are yet in the cradle.Pity the nation divided into fragments, each fragment deeming itself a nation." -Kahlil Gibran
"Only when you drink from the river of silence shall you indeed sing.And when you have reached the mountain top, then you shall begin to climb.And when the earth shall claim your limbs, then shall you truly dance." -Kahlil Gibran
"جلس إلى مائدتي ذات مرة رجل فأكل خبزي و رشف نبيذي ثم غادرني يهزأ بيثم عاد ثانية إلى خبزي ونبيذي فأقصيته، فسخرت مني الملائكة" -Kahlil Gibran
"ويل لأمة، عاقلها أبكم، و قويها أعمى، و محتالها ثرثار" -Kahlil Gibran
"Is not dread of thirst when your well is full, the thirst that is unquenchable?" -Kahlil Gibran
"My friend, I am not what I seem. Seeming is but a garment I wear-a care-woven garment that protects me from thy questionings and thee from my negligence. The 'I' in me, my friend, dwells in the house of silence, and therein it shall remain for ever more, unperceived, unapproachable. I would not have thee believe in what I say nor trust in what I do-for my words are naught but thy own thoughts in sound and my deeds thy own hopes in action. When thou sayest, 'The wind bloweth eastward,' I say, 'Aye it doth blow eastward'; for I would not have thee know that my mind doth not dwell upon the wind but upon the sea. Thou canst not understand my seafaring thoughts, nor would I have thee understand. I would be at sea alone. When it is day with thee, my friend, it is night with me; yet even then I speak of the noontide that dances upon the hills and of the purple shadow that steals its way across the valley; for thou canst not hear the songs of my darkness nor see my wings beating against the stars-and I fain would not have thee hear or see. I would be with night alone. When thou ascendest to thy Heaven I descend to my Hell-even then thou callest to me across the unbridgeable gulf, 'My companion, my comrade,' and I call back to thee, 'My comrade, my companion'-for I would not have thee see my Hell. The flame would burn thy eyesight and the smoke would crowd thy nostrils. And I love my Hell too well to have thee visit it. I would be in Hell alone. Thou lovest Truth and Beauty and Righteousness; and I for thy sake say it is well and seemly to love these things. But in my heart I laughed at thy love. Yet I would not have thee see my laughter. I would laugh alone. My friend, thou art good and cautious and wise; nay, thou art perfect-and I, too, speak with thee wisely and cautiously. And yet I am mad. But I mask my madness. I would be mad alone. My friend, thou art not my friend, but how shall I make thee understand? My path is not thy path, yet together we walk, hand in hand." -Kahlil Gibran
"And my heart bled within me; for you can only be free when even the desire of seeking freedom becomes a harness to you, and when you cease to speak of freedom as a goal and a fullfilment. you should be free indeed when your days are not without care nor your nights without a word and a grief, but rather when these things girdle your life and yet you rise above them naked unbound." -Kahlil Gibran
"As the strings of a lute are apart though they quiver the same music." -Kahlil Gibran
"وإن يكن مبتغاكم أن تنزلوا طاغية عن عرشه، فاعملوا أولاً على تحطيم ذلك العرش الذي أقمتموه له في قلوبكم. إذ كيف لطاغية أن يحكم شعباً حراً وأبياً ما لم يكن في حرية ذلك الشعب شيء من الاستبداد وفي إبائه شيء من الذل؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"Exaggeration is truth that has lost its temper." -Kahlil Gibran
"إشفق يا رب,وشدد جميع الأجنحة المنكسرة" -Kahlil Gibran
"كثيراً ما يكون الذكاء قناعاً ، إذا ملكت أن تهتكه وجدت إما عبقرية مُستثارة أو مهارة مُشعوذة." -Kahlil Gibran
"يقول لي منزلي : ناشدتُك ألا تهجرني فها هنا يقيمُ ماضيك .و يقولُ لي الطريق : فلتمضِ في إثري فإني لك المستقبل .و أقولُ لهما معاً منزلي و الطريق : أنا لا ماضي لي هنا و لا مستقبل ، و إذا ما أٌقمتُ هنا ففي إقامتي رحيل ، و إذا ما رحلتُ ففي رحيلي إقامة . الحبُ و الموتُ وحدهما يبدلان الأشياءَ كلها ." -Kahlil Gibran
"ما أظلم من يعطيك من جيبه ليأخذ من قلبك." -Kahlil Gibran
"فَما أحلى أيّامَ الحُبِّ! ومَا أعذَبَ أحلامَها! ومَا أمرَّ ليَاليَ الحُزنِ ومَا أكثرَ مَخاوِفَها!" -Kahlil Gibran
"Your joy is your sorrow unmasked. And the selfsame well from which your laughter rises was oftentimes filled with your tears. And how else can it be? The deeper that sorrow carves into your being, the more joy you can contain. When you are joyous, look deep into your heart and you shall find it is only that which has given you sorrow that is giving you joy.When you are sorrowful look again in your heart, and you shall see that in truth you are weeping for that which has been your delight." -Kahlil Gibran
"إنكم تتكلمون عندما توصد دونكم أبواب السلام مع أفكاركم.وعندما تعجزون عن السكنى فى وحدة قلوبكم، تقطنون ف شفاهكم، والصوت يلهيكم ويسليكم.وف الكثير من كلامكم يكاد فكركم يقضى ألما وكآبة." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن الحياة تكون بالحقيقة ظالمة حالكة إذا لم ترافقها الحركةوالحركة تكون عمياء لا بركة فيها إن لم ترافقها المعرفةوالمعرفة تكون عميقة سقيمة إن لم يرافقها العملوالعمل يكون باطلا وبلا ثمر إن لم يقترن بالمحبة لأنكم إذا اشتغلتم بمحبة فإنما تربطون أنفسكم وأفرادكم بعضها ببعض ويرتبط كل واحد منكم بربه" -Kahlil Gibran
"But memory is an autumn leaf that murmurs a while in the wind and then is heard no more." -Kahlil Gibran
"The soul unfolds itself, like a lotus of countless petals." -Kahlil Gibran
"إنك محسن حقا حين تتزكى ، وعندما تتزكى أدر وجهك عمن يتقبل عطاءك حتى لا تبصر حياءه عاريا" -Kahlil Gibran
"لا بأس ... إن كلمتي لم تزل في قلبي وهي كلمة حية مجنحة ولا بد من قولها. لا بد من قولها لتزيل بوقعها كل ما أوجدته ثرثرتي من الذنوب . لا بد من إخراج الشعلة" -Kahlil Gibran
"Your friend is your needs answered.He is your field which you sow with love and reap with thanksgiving.And he is your board and your fireside.For you come to him with your hunger, and you seek him for peace." -Kahlil Gibran
"لَيَسَ مَنْ يَكّتُب بالحِبْر كمن يَكْتُب بِدَم اَلَقَلَب وَلَيَسَ اَلْسُكُوتَ اَلَذِيِ يُحْدِثُهُ اَلْمَلَل .. كَاَلَسُكُوت اَلَذِي يُوجِدهُ اَلْألَم" -Kahlil Gibran
"Poetry is a deal of joy and pain and wonder, with a dash of the dictionary." -Kahlil Gibran
"life unfolds itself in mysteries ways." -Kahlil Gibran
"And then to sleep with a prayer for the beloved in your heart and a song of praise upon your lips." -Kahlil Gibran
"* المدينة العظيمة هى التى لا تتدخل فى شؤونها سلطة أجنبيةهى التى يكون كل امرئ فيها تمثالاً للحرية والإخاءوهى التى يتعلم الأولاد الاستقلال وعزة النفس فى مدارسها قبل كل العلوموهى التى تكون الصداقة فيها أمراً مقدساً والإخلاص محترماً كسرٍ من الأسرار الالهية ." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your daily life is your temple and your religion. When you enter into it take with you your all." -Kahlil Gibran
"أروع ما كتب جبران ..نحبهملكن لا نقترب منهمفهم في البعد أحلىوهم في البعد أرقىوهم في البعد أغلىوالبعض نحبهمونسعى كي نقترب منهمونتقاسم تفاصيل الحياة معهمويؤلمنا الإبتعاد عنهمويصعب علينا تصور الحياة حين تخلو منهموالبعض نحبهمونتمنى ان نعيش حكاية جميلة معهمونفتعل الصدف لكي نلتقي بهمونختلق الأسباب كي نراهمونعيش في الخيال أكثر من الواقع معهموالبعض نحبهملكن بيننا وبين أنفسنا فقطفنصمت برغم ألم الصمتفلا نجاهر بحبهم حتى لهملان العوائق كثيرهوالعواقب مخيفهومن الافضل لنا ولهمان تبقى الابواب بيننا وبينهم مغلقه...والبعض نحبهمفنملأ الارض بحبهم ونحدث الدنيا عنهمونثرثر بهم في كل الاوقاتونحتاج الى وجودهم..كالماء .. والهواء ..ونختنق في غيابهمأو الإبتعاد عنهموالبعض نحبهملأننا لا نجد سواهموحاجتنا الى الحب تدفعنا نحوهمفالأيام تمضيوالعمر ينقضيوالزمن لا يقفويرعبنا بأن نبقى بلا رفيقوالبعض نحبهملأن مثلهم لا يستحق سوى الحبولا نملك امامهم سوى ان نحبفنتعلم منهم أشياء جميلةونرمم معهم أشياء كثيرةونعيد طلاء الحياة من جديدونسعى صادقين كي نمنحهم بعض السعادةوالبعض نحبهملكننا لانجد صدى لهذاالحب في قلوبهــمفننهار و ننكسرو نتخبط في حكايات فاشلةفلا نكرههمولا ننساهمولا نحب سواهمونعود نبكيهم بعد كل محاوله فاشله.. والبعض نحبهم .... ويبقى فقط ان يحبوننا.... مثلما نحبهم.." -Kahlil Gibran
"إذا كنتم أفضل من الناس السائرين في موكب الحياة عليكم أن تذهبوا إليهم وتعلموهم وإن كانوا أفضل منكم امتزجوا بهم وتعلموا" -Kahlil Gibran
"كثير الرغبات طويل الحياة" -Kahlil Gibran
"على هذه الشطآن أسعى إلى الأبدبين الرمل مسعاى و بين الزَبَدسوف يطغى المدّ على آثار قدمى فيمحو ما وجدو تطوّح الريح بعيداً بعيداً بالزَبَدأما البحر و أما الشاطئ ، فباقيان إلى الأبد" -Kahlil Gibran
"ان ما نراه بأعيننا ليس بأكثر من غمامة تحجب عنا ما يجب ان نشاهده ببصائرنا" -Kahlil Gibran
"إن النفس الكئيبة تجد راحة بالعزلة والانفراد فتهجر الناس مثلما يبتعد الغزال الجريح عن سربه ويتوارى في كهفه حتى يبرأ أو يموت ." -Kahlil Gibran
"فليكن وداعنا هائلاً عظيماً مثل حُبِنا." -Kahlil Gibran
"أنت أقرب الناس إلى روحي , أنتِ أقرب الناس إلى قلبي ونحن لم نتخاصم قط بروحينا أو بقلبينا. لم نتخاصم بغير الفكر والفكر شيءٌ مكتسب , شيءٌ نقتبسه من المحيط , من المرئيات , من مآتي الأيام . أما الروح والقلب فقد كانا فينا جوهريين علويين قبل أن نفتكر." -Kahlil Gibran
"خيّل إلي في الأمس أني ذرة تتموج مرتجفة في دائرة الحياة بغير انتظام.واليوم أعرف كل المعرفة أني انا الدائرة وأن الحياة بأسرها تتحرك فيَ بذرات منتظمة.يقولون في يقظتهم : ما أنت والعالم الذي تعيش فيه سوى حبة رمل على شاطىء غير متناه لبحر غير متناه.وفي حلمي اقول لهم : أنا هو البحر غير المتناهي . وما جميع العوالم سوى حبات من الرمل على شاطئي" -Kahlil Gibran
"You are good when you walk to your goal firmly and with bold steps.Yet you are not evil when you go thither limping.For those who limp go not backwards.But you who are strong and swift, see that you do not limp before the lame, deeming it kindness." -Kahlil Gibran
"Much of your pain is the bitter potion by which the physician within you heals your sick self." -Kahlil Gibran
"ان حياة الانسان لا تبتدىء في الرحم كما انها لا تنتهي امام القبر، وهذا الفضاء الواسع المملوء باشعة القمر والكواكب لا يخلو من الارواح المتعانقة بالمحبة والنفوس المتضامنة بالتفاهم" -Kahlil Gibran
"Behind the veil of each night, there is a smiling dawn." -Kahlil Gibran
"God has created several doors which open onto truth. He opens them to all those who knock on them with the hand of faith. " -Kahlil Gibran
"إنّ َقلبي ظمآن، وإنّي مع ذك لا أرضى لنفسي أن أرشفَ دماً رخيصاً لجنسٍ هزيل،فالكأسُ ملوّثةٌ، وما فيها من خمرٍ مذاقهُ مرٌّ في فمي" -Kahlil Gibran
"But you, children of space, you restless in rest, you shall not be trapped nor tamed." -Kahlil Gibran
"الحيرة بدء المعرفة" -Kahlil Gibran
"The true wealth of a nation lies not in it's gold or silver but in it's learning, wisdom and in the uprightness of its sons." -Kahlil Gibran
"Jesus was not sent here to teach the people to build magnificent churches and temples amidst the cold wretched huts and dismal hovels. He came to make the human heart a temple, and the soul an altar, and the mind a priest." -Kahlil Gibran
"ويقولون لك أكثر من ذلك لأن أشباح جدودهم مازالت حيةً في أجسادهم فهم مثل كهوف الأودية الخالية يُرجِعون صدى أصوات ولا يفهمون معناها." -Kahlil Gibran
"أعطني الناي و غن فالغنا سر الخلودو أنين الناي يبقى بعد أن يفنى الوجودهل تخذت الغاب مثلي منزلا دون القصورفتتبعت السواقي و تسلقت الصخورهل تحممت بعطر و تنشفت بنورو شربت الفجر خمراُ في كؤوس من أثيرأعطني الناي و غن فالغنا خير الصلاةو أنين الناي يبقى بعد أن تفنى الحياةهل جلست العصر مثلي بين جفنات العنبو العناقيد تدلت كثريات الذهبهل فرشت العشب ليلاُ و تلحفت الفضازاهداُ في ما سيأتي ناسياُ ما قد مضىأعطني الناي و غن فالغنا عدل القلوبو أنين الناي يبقى بعد أن تفنى الذنوبأعطني الناي و غن و انس داء و دواءإنما الناس سطور كتبت لكن بماء" -Kahlil Gibran
"نحن أبناء الكآبة.نحن الأنبياء والشعراء والموسيقيون" -Kahlil Gibran
"Your friend is your needs answered.He is your field which you sow with love and reap with thanksgiving.And he is your board and your fireside.For you come to him with your hunger, and you seek him for peace.When your friend speaks his mind you fear not the ""nay"" in your own mind, nor do you withhold the ""ay.""And when he is silent your heart ceases not to listen to his heart;For without words, in friendship, all thoughts, all desires, all expectations are born and shared, with joy that is unacclaimed.When you part from your friend, you grieve not;For that which you love most in him may be clearer in his absence, as the mountain to the climber is clearer from the plain.And let there be no purpose in friendship save the deepening of the spirit.For love that seeks aught but the disclosure of its own mystery is not love but a net cast forth: and only the unprofitable is caught.And let your best be for your friend.If he must know the ebb of your tide, let him know its flood also.For what is your friend that you should seek him with hours to kill?Seek him always with hours to live.For it is his to fill your need, but not your emptiness.And in the sweetness of friendship let there be laughter, and sharing of pleasures.For in the dew of little things the heart finds its morning and is refreshed." -Kahlil Gibran
"ما صعدت عقبة حرجة الا بلغت سهلا اخضراً" -Kahlil Gibran
"عبرت له ""مي"" عن خوفها من الحب. ورد عليها جبران: "".. هل تخافين ضوء الشمس؟ هل تخشين مد البحر وجزره؟♥" -Kahlil Gibran
"إذا الحب أومأ إليكم فاتبعوه حتى وإن كانت مسالكه وعرة وكثيرة المزالق .وإذا الحب لفكم بجناحيه فاطمئنوا إليه، حتى وإن جرحتكم النصال المخبوءة تحت قوادمه.وإذا الحب خاطبكم فصدقوه، حتى وإن عبث صوته بأحلامكم كما تعبث ريح الشمال بأزهار الحديقة .و مثلما يتسلق الحب أعاليكم فيدغدغ أغصانكم اللدنة المرتعشة في الشمس ، هكذا ينحدر إلى أعماقكم فيهز جذوركم في الأرض هزاً عنيفاً." -Kahlil Gibran
"A fox looked at his shadow at sunrise and said, 'I will have a camel for lunch today.' And all morning he went about looking for camels. But at noon he saw his shadow again-and he said, 'A mouse will do." -Kahlil Gibran
"If he is indeed wise he does not bid you enter the house of his wisdom, but rather leads you to the threshold of your own mind." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your joy can fill you only as deeply as your sorrow has carved you." -Kahlil Gibran
"Beauty is not a need but an ecstasy.It is not a mouth thirsting nor an empty hand stretched forth,But rather a heart inflamed and a soul enchanted.It is not the image you would see nor the song you would hear,But rather an image you see though you close your eyes and a song you hear though you shut your ears.It is not the sap within the furrowed bark, nor a win attached to a claw,But rather a garden forever in bloom and a flock of angels forever in flight.Beauty is life when life unveils her holy face. But you are life and you are the veil.Beauty is eternity gazing at itself in the mirror.But you are eternity and you are the mirror." -Kahlil Gibran
"غريبة في هذا العالم..غريبة ..وفي الغربة وحدة قاسية..ووحشة موجعة ..غير أنها تجعلني أفكر أبداًبوطن سحري لا أعرفهوتملأ احلامي بأشباح أرض قصيّة ما رأتها عينيغريبة في هذا العالموقد جبت مشارق الأرض ومغاربهافلم أجد مسقط رأسي ولا لقيت من يعرفني ولا من يسمع بي" -Kahlil Gibran
"المنصف حقاً هو من يحس أنه شريكك فى النصف من سيئاتك" -Kahlil Gibran
"لألف عام خلت قال لي جاري:""إنني برمٌ بحياتي، فما هي إلا قطعة من الألم"". وبالأمس مررت بالمقابر ورأيت الحياة ترقص فوق ضريحه" -Kahlil Gibran
"He who wears his morality but as his best garment were better naked.The wind and the sun will tear no holes in his skin." -Kahlil Gibran
"وكم سكرت بخمرة الذات فحسبتني وجليسي حملا"" وذئبا"", حتى إذا ما صحوت من نشوتي رأيتني بشرا"" ورأيته بشرا" -Kahlil Gibran
"* وقد طالما سمعتك تقول متبجحاً ""إننى أحب أن أعطى ، ولكن المستحقين فقط ! ""فهل نسيت يا صاح أن الأشجار فى بستانك لاتقول قولك ومثله القطعان فى مراعيك ؟فهى تُعطي لكى تحيا ، لإنها إذا لم تعطه عرضت حياتها للتهلكة ." -Kahlil Gibran
"من يصبر على الضيم ولا يتمرد على الظلم يكون حليف البطل على الحق وشريك السفاحين بقتل الأبرياء." -Kahlil Gibran
"وجد الانسان فأوحيت له الموسيقى من العلاء لغة ليست كاللغات تحكى ما يكنه القلب للقلب فهى حديث القلوب و هى كالحب عم تأثيرها الناس" -Kahlil Gibran
"من لا يرى الأحزان لا يرى الفرح" -Kahlil Gibran
"Your hearts know in silence the secrets of the days and the nights.But your ears thirst for the sound of your heart's knowledge.You would know in words that which you have always known in thought.You would touch with your fingers the naked body of your dreams.And it is well that you should.The hidden well-spring of your soul must needs rise and run murmuring to the sea;and the treasure of your infinite depths would be revealed to your eyes.But let there be no scales to weigh your unknown treasure;And seek not the depths of your knowledge with staff or sounding line.For self is a sea boundless and measureless." -Kahlil Gibran
"Seven times have I despised my soul: The sixth time when she despised the ugliness of a face, and knew not that it was one of her own masks." -Kahlil Gibran
"For Reason, ruling alone, is a force confining; and Passion, unattended,is a flame that burns to its own destruction." -Kahlil Gibran
"Listen to the women when she looks at you, not when she talks to you." -Kahlil Gibran
"Perhaps time's definition of coal is the diamond." -Kahlil Gibran
"أجمل ثلاث نساء فى العالم أمـى وظلهـا وانعكاس مرآتها" -Kahlil Gibran
"And if you would know God, be not therefore a solver of riddles.Rather look about you and you shall see Him playing with your children.And look into space; you shall see Him walking in the cloud, outstretching His arms in the lightning and descending in rain.You shall see Him smiling in flowers, then rising and waving His hands in trees." -Kahlil Gibran
"إنما فرحكم حزنكم رفع عن وجهه القناع" -Kahlil Gibran
"* كان الأقدمون يقولون : ألا فاختر لنفسك الدنيا أو الآخرةوانا أقول : لقد اخترت الاثنين الدنيا والآخرة لأنهما من صنع اللهوالله يحب كل ما صنعت يداه القدسيتان ." -Kahlil Gibran
"It is when you give of yourself that you truly give." -Kahlil Gibran
"ولمّا فتحت قلبي لكي ارى السعادة, وجدت مرآتها وسريرها وملابسها, لكنّي لم اجدها." -Kahlil Gibran
"ليملأ كل منكما كأس الآخر ولكن لا تشربا من كأس واحدهتقاسما الخبز ولكن لا تأكلا من رغيف واحدغنوا وارقصوا معا وأفرحوا ولا يفسد زوج عزلة زوجه كأوتاد العود، ناء بعضها عن بعض لكنها ترتعش في لحنِ واحد" -Kahlil Gibran
"You are far, far greater than you know - and all is well." -Kahlil Gibran
"وعظتني نفسي فعلمتني أن أقول : (لبيك) عندما يناديني المجهول والخطر . وقبل أن تعظني نفسي كنت لا أنهض إلا لصوت مناد عرفته , ولا أسير إلا على سبل خبرتها فاستهونتها . أما الآن فقد أصبح المعلوم مطية أركبها نحو المجهول , والهسل سلّما أتسلق درجاته لأبلغ الخطر" -Kahlil Gibran
"إن السماء لا تريد أن أصرف العمر صارخة متوجعة في الليالي قائلة متى يجيء الفجر، وعندما يجيء الفجر أقول متى ينقضي هذا النهار. إن السماء لا تريد أن يكون الإنسان تعساً لأنها وضعت في أعماقه الميل إلى السعادة، لأنه بسعادة الإنسان يتمجد الله. . ." -Kahlil Gibran
"And could you keep your heart in wonder at the daily miracles of your life, your pain would not seem less wondrous than your joy;And you would accept the seasons of your heart, even as you have always accepted the seasons that pass over your fields." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your body is the harp of your soul and it is yours to bring forth sweet music from it or confused sounds." -Kahlil Gibran
"قد جمعنا الحب فمن يُفرّقُنَا؟ وأخذنا الموت فمن يُرجٍعُنا؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"Extreme torture is mute, and so we sat silent, petrified, like columns of marble buried under the sand of an earthquake. Neither wished to listen to the other because our heart-threads had become weak and even breathing would have broken them." -Kahlil Gibran
"نحن نتكلم عندما توصد أمامنا أبواب السلام عن افكارنا ، وعندما نعجز عن الوصول لحالة السكون في وحدة قلوبنا ، نتحول لنستولي على شفاهنا ، فالصوت يلهينا ويسلينا ، وفي الكثير من كلامنا يكاد فكرنا ينفجر من الألم والكآبة ، لأن الفكر طائر من طيور الفضاء ن يمكنه ان يبسط جناحيه في قفص الألفاظ ، ولكنه لا يستطيع أن يطير" -Kahlil Gibran
"الرغبة نصف الحياة، وقلة المبالاة نصف الموت" -Kahlil Gibran
"لإن البشر لا ينفون الا من تمردت روحه الكبيرة على الظلم والجور .ومن لا يؤثر النفي على الاستعباد لا يكون حراً بما في الحرية من الحق والواجب ." -Kahlil Gibran
"أما رأيتم عصافير الحقل تدرب فراخها على الطيران فكيف تعلمون صغاركم جر القيود والسلاسل ؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"هو الحب ذا يستهزئ بي. ها قد جعلني سخرية وقادني حيث الآمال تعد عيوباً والأماني مذلة." -Kahlil Gibran
"Beauty is that which attracts your soul, and that which loves to give and not to receive." -Kahlil Gibran
"And in the sweetness of friendship let there be laughter, and sharing of pleasures." -Kahlil Gibran
"وقد طالما سمعتك تقول متبجحاً: إنني أحب أن أعطي ولكن المستحقين فقط، فهل نسيت يا صاح أن الأشجار في بستانك لا تقول قولك ومثلها القطعان في مراعيك؟ فهي تعطي لكي تحيا لأنها إذا لم تعطِ عرضت حياتها للتهلكة" -Kahlil Gibran
"أتستغربين هذا الكلام ؟ إن أغرب الأشياء أقربها إلى الحقائق الثابتة . وفي الإرادة البشرية قوة واشتياق يحولان السديم فينا إلى شموس ..." -Kahlil Gibran
"في تلك السنة ولدت ثانية و المرء إن لم تحبل به الكآبة و يتمخض به اليأس ، و تضعه المحبة في مهد الاحلام ، تظل حياته كصفحة خالية بيضاء في كتاب الكيان .في تلك السنة شاهدت ملائكة السماء تنظر الى من وراء أجفان امرأة جميلة ، و فيها رأيت ابالسة الجحيم يضجون و يتراكضون في صدر رجل مجرم ، و من لا يشاهد الملائكة و الشياطين في محاسن الحياة و مكروهاتها يظل قلبه بعيدا عن المعرفة و نفسه فارغة من العواطف" -Kahlil Gibran
"وفي هذه الحفرة أيضا قد دفنت قلبي أيها الرجل , فما أقوى ساعديك!" -Kahlil Gibran
"للكآبة آياد حريرية الملامس، قوية الأعصاب تقبض على القلوب وتؤلمها بالوحدة. فالوحدة حليفة الكآبة كما أنها أليفة كل حركة روحية. ونفس الصبي المنتصبة أمام عوامل الوحدة وتأثيرات الكآبة شبيهة بالزنبقة البيضاء عند خروجها من الكمام ترتعش أمام النسيم، وتفتح قلبها لأشعة الفجر وتضم أوراقها بمرور خيالات المساء، فأن لم يكن للصبي من الملاهي ما يشغل فكرته، ومن الرفاق من يشاركه في الأميال، كانت الحياة أمامه كحبس ضيق لا يرى في جوانبه غير أنوال العناكب ولا يسمع من زواياه سوى دبيب الحشرات.9.	أما تلك الكآبة التي اتبعت أيام حداثتي فلم تكن ناتجة عن حاجتي إلى الملاهي لأنها كانت متوفرة لدي، ولا عن افتقاري إلى الرفاق لأنني كنت أجدهم أينما ذهبت، بل هي من أعراض علة طبيعية في النفس كانت تحبب إليّ الوحدة والانفراد وتميت في روحي الأميال إلى الملاهي والألعاب، وتخلع عن كتفيّ أجنحة الصبا وتجعلني أمام الوجود كحوض مياه بين الجبال يعكس بهدوئه المحزن رسوم الأشباح وألوان الغيوم وخطوط الأغصان ولكنه لا يجد ممراً يسير فيه جدولاً مترنماً إلى البحر." -Kahlil Gibran
" ومن اكتسى بفضائله ليبرز في أبهى زيه ، أولى به أن يظل عاريا " -Kahlil Gibran
"وقد تلتقي بين صباحك ومسائك رجلين فيخاطبك الأول وفي صوته أهازيج العاصفة وفي حركاته هول الجيش أما الثاني فيحدثك متخوفا""وجلا""بصوت مرتعش وكلمات متقطعة , فتعزو العزم والشجاعة إلى الأول , والوهن والجبن إلى الثاني , غير أنك لو رأيتهما وقد دعتهما الأيام إلى لقاء المصاعب , أو إلى الاستشهاد في سبيل مبدأ, لعلمت أن الوقاحة المبهرجة ليست ببسالة والخجل الصامت ليس بجبانة." -Kahlil Gibran
"Love is all I can possess and no one can deprive me of it.Kahlil Gibran (Visions of the Prophet)" -Kahlil Gibran
"Pleasure is a freedom-song,But it is not freedom.It is the blossoming of your desires,But it is not their fruit.It is a depth calling unto a height,But it is not the deep nor the high.It is the caged taking wing,But it is not space encompassed.Aye, in very truth, pleasure is a freedom-song.And I fain would have you sing it with fullness of heart; yet I would not have you lose your hearts in the singing.Some of your youth seek pleasure as if it were all, and they are judgedand rebuked.I would not judge nor rebuke them. I would have them seek.For they shall find pleasure, but not her alone;Seven are her sisters, and the least of them is more beautiful thanpleasure.Have you not heard of the man who was digging in the earth for rootsand found a treasure?And some of your elders remember pleasures with regret like wrongscommitted in drunkenness.But regret is the beclouding of the mind and not its chastisement.They should remember their pleasures with gratitude, as they wouldthe harvest of a summer.Yet if it comforts them to regret, let them be comforted.And there are among you those who are neither young to seek nor oldto remember;And in their fear of seeking and remembering they shun all pleasures,lest they neglect the spirit or offend against it.But even in their foregoing is their pleasure.And thus they too find a treasure though they dig for roots with quiveringhands.But tell me, who is he that can offend the spirit?Shall the nightingale offend the stillness of the night, or the firefly thestars?And shall your flame or your smoke burden the wind?Think you the spirit is a still pool which you can trouble with a staff?Oftentimes in denying yourself pleasure you do but store the desire inthe recesses of your being.Who knows but that which seems omitted today, waits for tomorrow?Even your body knows its heritage and its rightful need and will notbe deceived.And your body is the harp of your soul,And it is yours to bring forth sweet music from it or confused sounds.And now you ask in your heart, 'How shall we distinguish that whichis good in pleasure from that which is not good?'Go to your fields and your gardens, and you shall learn that it is thepleasure of the bee to gather honey of the flower,But it is also the pleasure of the flower to yield its honey to the bee.For to the bee a flower is a fountain of life,And to the flower a bee is a messenger of love,And to both, bee and flower, the giving and the receiving of pleasureis a need and an ecstasy." -Kahlil Gibran
"إنكم تتكلمون حين يدب الخصام بينكم وبين أفكاركم ، ومع أكثر كلامكم يهلك نصف تفكيركم." -Kahlil Gibran
"Happiness is a vine that takes root and grows within the heart, never outside it." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن الكُتّابَ والشعراءَ يحاولون إدراك حقيقة المرأة ولكنهم للآن لم يفهموا أسرار قلبها ومخبآت صدرها لأنهم ينظرون إليها من وراء نقاب الشهوات فلا يرونَ غيرَ خطوط جسدها، أو يضعونها تحت مكبرات الكره فلا يجدون فيها غير الضعف والاستسلام." -Kahlil Gibran
"قد تسعدنا أشياء لا قيمة لها عند البعض٠" -Kahlil Gibran
"بعد ذلك قنطت. وليس بين عناصر النفس عنصر أمر من القنوط. ليس في الحياة شيء أصعب من أن يقول المرء لنفسه ""لقد غُلبت." -Kahlil Gibran
"الحياة تنبثق من داخل الانسان ولم تجئ ممن يحيطون به" -Kahlil Gibran
"If in the twilight of memory we should meet once more, we shall speak again together and you shall sing to me a deeper song.And if our hands should meet in another dream, we shall build another tower in the sky." -Kahlil Gibran
"You work that you may keep pace with the earth and the soul of the earth.For to be idle is to become a stranger unto the seasons, and to step out of life's procession, that marches in majesty and proud submission towards the infinite.When you work you are a flute through whose heart the whispering of the hours turns to music.Which of you would be a reed, dumb and silent, when all else sings together in unison?Always you have been told that work is a curse and labour a misfortune.But I say to you that when you work you fulfil a part of earth's furthest dream, assigned to you when that dream was born,And in keeping yourself with labour you are in truth loving life,And to love life through labour is to be intimate with life's inmost secret.But if you in your pain call birth an affliction and the support of the flesh a curse written upon your brow, then I answer that naught but the sweat of your brow shall wash away that which is written.You have been told also that life is darkness, and in your weariness you echo what was said by the weary.And I say that life is indeed darkness save when there is urge,And all urge is blind save when there is knowledge,And all knowledge is vain save when there is work,And all work is empty save when there is love;And when you work with love you bind yourself to yourself, and to one another, and to God.And what is it to work with love?It is to weave the cloth with threads drawn from your heart, even as if your beloved were to wear that cloth.It is to build a house with affection, even as if your beloved were to dwell in that house.It is to sow seeds with tenderness and reap the harvest with joy, even as if your beloved were to eat the fruit.It is to charge all things you fashion with a breath of your own spirit,And to know that all the blessed dead are standing about you and watching.Often have I heard you say, as if speaking in sleep, ""He who works in marble, and finds the shape of his own soul in the stone, is nobler than he who ploughs the soil.And he who seizes the rainbow to lay it on a cloth in the likeness of man, is more than he who makes the sandals for our feet.""But I say, not in sleep but in the overwakefulness of noontide, that the wind speaks not more sweetly to the giant oaks than to the least of all the blades of grass;And he alone is great who turns the voice of the wind into a song made sweeter by his own loving.Work is love made visible.And if you cannot work with love but only with distaste, it is better that you should leave your work and sit at the gate of the temple and take alms of those who work with joy.For if you bake bread with indifference, you bake a bitter bread that feeds but half man's hunger.And if you grudge the crushing of the grapes, your grudge distils a poison in the wine.And if you sing though as angels, and love not the singing, you muffle man's ears to the voices of the day and the voices of the night." -Kahlil Gibran
"You ask me how I became a madman. It happened thus: One day, long before many gods were born, I woke from a deep sleep and found all my masks were stolen, the seven masks I have fashioned and worn in seven lives, I ran maskless through the crowded streets shouting, ""Thieves, thieves, the cursed thieves."" Men and women laughed at me and some ran to their houses in fear of me. And when I reached the market place, a youth standing on a house-top cried, ""He is a madman."" I looked up to behold him; the sun kissed my own naked face for the first time. For the first time the sun kissed my own naked face and my soul was inflamed with love for the sun, and I wanted my masks no more. And as if in a trance I cried, ""Blessed, blessed are the thieves who stole my masks."" Thus I became a madman." -Kahlil Gibran
"ما اتعس المرأة التي تستيقظ من غفلة الشبيبةفتجد ذاتها في منزل رجل يغمرها بأمواله وعطاياه،ويسربلها بالتكريم والمؤانسة..لكنه لا يقدر ان يلامس قلبها بشعلة الحب المحيية..ولا يستطيع ان يشبع روحها... من الخمرة السماوية التي يسكبها اللهفي عيني الرجل في قلب الرجل" -Kahlil Gibran
"When love beckons to you, follow him," -Kahlil Gibran
"ليحبَّ أحدكمت الآخر , ولكن لا تجعلا من الحب قيدًا, بل اجعلاه بحرًا متدفقًا بين شواطئ أرواحكما" -Kahlil Gibran
"لأن أشباح جدودهم ما زالت حية في أجسادهم" -Kahlil Gibran
"You often say,'I would give, but only to the deserving.'The trees in your orchard say not so, nor the flocks in your pasture.They give that they may live, for to withhold is to perish.Surely he who is worthy to receive his days and his nights, is worthy of all else from you.And he who has deserved to drink from the ocean of life deserves to fill his cup from your little stream. " -Kahlil Gibran
"أنت لا ترى غير ظلك حين تولّي ظهرك للشمس ." -Kahlil Gibran
"أنت يا مي كنز من كنوز الحياة, بل وأكثر من ذلك- أنتِ أنتِ, وإني أحمد الله لأنك من أمة أنا من أبناها ولأنك عائشة في زمن أعيش فيه. كلما تخيلتك عائشة في القرن الماضي أو في القرن الآتي رفعت يدي وخفقت بها الهوا كمن يريد أن يزيل غيمة من الدخان من أمام وجهه.يا مي , يا ماري , يا صديقتي" -Kahlil Gibran
"You may forget the one with whom you have laughed, but never the one with whom you have wept." -Kahlil Gibran
"كم من امرأة تستعير قلب الرجل، وما أندر اللائي يقدرن على امتلاكه" -Kahlil Gibran
"رأيت وجهاً يظهر بألف مظهر. ووجهاً مظهره واحداً أبداً كأنما قد سبك في قالب.ورأيت وجهاً قدرت أن أقرأ تحت طلاوته الظاهرة بشاعته المستترة، ووجهاً ما رأيت روعة جماله المحتجب حتى رفعت قناعه الظاهر.ورأيت وجهاً شيخاً قد تجعّد ولكن على لاشيء، ووجهاً ناعماً قد ارتسمت على ملامحه جميع الأشياء.أنا أعرف الوجوه لأنني أنظر إليها من خلال ما ينسجه بصري فأرى الحقيقة التي وراءها بباصرتي." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن الملامح التي تُبيح أسرار الذات المعنوية تُكسب الوجه جمالًا وملاحة ، مهما كانت تلك الأسرار موجعة وأليمة ." -Kahlil Gibran
"And one of the elders of the city, said, speak to us of good and evil.And he answered:You are good in countless ways, and you are not evil when you are not good." -Kahlil Gibran
"And as a single leaf turns not yellow but with the silent knowledge of the whole tree." -Kahlil Gibran
"How often have you sailed in my dreams. And now you come in my awakening, which is my deeper dream." -Kahlil Gibran
"ليس السِّجن سيِّئاً إلى حدٍّ كبير ولكنَّني أكره الجدار بين زنزانتي وزنزانة السَّجين الآخر. وأؤكد لكَ أنني لستُ ألومُ السَّجَّان ولا مَنْ بنى السِّجن. " -Kahlil Gibran
"You are my brother and I love you. I love you worshipping in your church, kneeling in your temple, and praying in your mosque. You and I and all are children of one religion, for the varied paths of religion are but the fingers of the loving hand of the Supreme Being, extended to all, offering completeness of spirit to all, anxious to receive all." -Kahlil Gibran
"We stood up and bade each other farewell, but love and despair stood between us like two ghosts, one stretching his wings with his fingers over our throats, one weeping and the other laughing hideously.As I took Selma's hand and put it to my lips, she came close to me and placed a kiss on my forehead, then dropped on the wooden bench. She shut her eyes and whispered softly, ""Oh, Lord God, have mercy on me and mend my broken wings!" -Kahlil Gibran
"If I extend an empty hand and in retrieving it and finding it still empty, I feel disappointment, that is foolishness; yet if I extend a hand which is full and yet find no one to receive it, then that is hopelessness." -Kahlil Gibran
"أحبو بعضكم بعضاًو لكن لاتقيدو المحبه بالقيود بل لتكن المحبه بحراً متموجاً بين شواطئ نفوسكم " -Kahlil Gibran
"كل ما في الأرض يحيا بناموس طبيعته ومن طبيعة ناموسه يستمد مجد الحرية وأفراحها. أما البشر فمحرومون من هذه النعمة لأنهم وضعوا لأرواحهم الإلهية شريعة عالمية محدودة، وسنوا لأجسادهم ونفوسهم قانوناً واحداً قاسياً، وأقاموا لميولهم وعواطفهم سجناً ضيقاً مخيفاً، وحفروا لقلوبهم وعقولهم قبراً عميقاً مظلماً. ولكن هل يظل الإنسان عبداً لشرائعه الفاسدة إلى انقضاء الدهر أم تحرره الأيام ليحيا بالروح وللروح؟ أيبقى الإنسان محدقاً إلى التراب أم يحول عينيه نحو الشمس...؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"في عقيدتي أنه اذا لا بد من السيادة في هذا العالم فالسيادة يجب ان تكون للمرأة لا للرجلأنا مديون بكل ما هو ""انا"" للمرأة منذ كنت طفلاً حتى الساعة . والمرأة تفتح النوافذ في بصري والابواب في روحي" -Kahlil Gibran
"إن لم ترمِ حياتنا إلى مستقبل أنبل وأبهى فباطلة هى" -Kahlil Gibran
"فالفراشة التي تظل مرفرفة حول السراج حتى تحترق هي أسمى من الخُلد الذي يعيش براحة و سلامة في نفق مظلم" -Kahlil Gibran
"فسارق الزهر مذموم ومحتقرٌوسارق الحقل يدعى الباسل الخطرُ!" -Kahlil Gibran
"الـقـلـب يـعـرف ما لا ينطق بـه الـلسـان و ما لا تسمعه الآذان" -Kahlil Gibran
"أنا هو ذلك الشرير فاسمعوا احتجاجي ولاتكونوا مشفقين بل كونوا عادلين لأن الشفقة تجوز على المجرمين الضعفاء. أما العدل فهو كل مايطلبه الأبرياء." -Kahlil Gibran
"كانَ لي بِالأَمسِ قَلبٌ فَقَضى  وَأَراحَ النّاسَ مِنهُ وَاِستَراحذاكَ عَهدٌ مِن حَياتي قَد مَضى  بَينَ تَشبيبٍ وَشَكوى وَنواحإِنَّما الحُبُّ كَنجمٍ في الفَضا  نُورُهُ يُمحَى بِأَنوار الصَّباحوَسُرورُ الحُبِّ وَهمٌ لا يَطول  وَجَمالُ الحُبِّ ظِلٌّ لا يُقيموَعُهودُ الحُبِّ أَحلامٌ تَزُول  عِندَما يَستَيقظُ العَقلُ السَّليمكَم سَهرتُ اللَّيل وَالشَّوق مَعي  ساهِرٌ أَرقبهُ كَي لا أَناموَخَيالُ الوَجدِ يَحمي مَضجَعي  قائِلاً لا تَدنُ فَالنَّومُ حَراموَسقامي هامِسٌ في مَسمَعي  مَن يُريد الوَصل لا يَشكو السقام" -Kahlil Gibran
"إن المحبة المحدودة تطلب امتلاك المحبوب، أما المحبة غير المتناهية فلا تطلب غير ذاتها." -Kahlil Gibran
"أنا متطرف ؛ لأن من يعتدل بإظهار الحق يبين نصف الحق و يبثي نصفه الاخر محجوبا وراء خوفه من ظنون الناس و تقولاتهم ." -Kahlil Gibran
"And that which sings and contemplates in you is still dwelling within the bounds of that first moment which scattered the stars into space." -Kahlil Gibran
"إنك لتُعطي القليل حين تُعطي ممّا تملك، فإذا أعطيتَ من ذاتك أعطيتَ حقًا." -Kahlil Gibran
"Art arises when the secret vision of the artist and the manifestation of nature agree to find new shapes." -Kahlil Gibran
"Amigo mío... yo no soy lo que parezco. Mi aspecto exterior no es sino un traje que llevo puesto; un traje hecho cuidadosamente, que me protege de tus preguntas, y a ti, de mi negligencia.El ""yo"" que hay en mí, amigo mío, mora en la casa del silencio, y allí permanecerá para siempre, inadvertido, secreto. No quisiera que creyeras en lo que digo ni que confiaras en lo que hago, pues mis palabras no son otra cosa que tus propios pensamientos, hechos sonido, y mis hechos son tus propias esperanzas en acto.Cuando dices: ""El viento sopla hacia el Este"", digo: ""Sí, siempre sopla hacia el Este""; pues no quiero que sepas entonces que mi mente no mora en el viento, sino en el mar.No puedes comprender mis navegantes pensamientos, ni me interesa que los comprendas. Prefiero estar a solas en el mar. Cuando es de día para tí, amigo mío, es de noche para mí; sin embargo, todavía entonces hablo de la luz del día que danza en las montañas, y de la sombra purpúrea que se abre paso por el valle; pues no puedes oír las canciones de mi oscuridad, ni puedes ver mis alas que se agitan contra las estrellas, y no me interesa que oigas ni que veas lo que pasa en mí; prefiero estar a solas con la noche.Cuando tú subes a tu Cielo yo desciendo a mi Infierno. Y aún entonces me llamas a través del golfo infranqueable que nos separa: "" ¡Compañero! ¡Camarada!"" Y te contesto: ""¡Compañero! ¡Camarada!, porque no quiero que veas mi Infierno. Las llamas te cegarían, y el humo te ahogaría. Y me gusta mi Infierno; lo amo al grado de no dejar que lo visites. Prefiero estar solo en mi Infierno.Tu amas la Verdad, la Belleza y lo Justo, y yo, por complacerte, digo que está bien, y finjo amar estas cosas. Pero en el fondo de mi corazón me río de tu amor por estas entidades. Sin embargo, no te dejo ver mi risa: prefiero reír a solas. Amigo mío, eres bueno, discreto y sensato; es más: eres perfecto. Y yo, a mi vez, hablo contigo con sensatez y discreción, pero... estoy loco. Sólo que enmascaro mi locura. Prefiero estar loco, a solas.Amigo mío, tú no eres mi amigo. Pero, ¿cómo hacer que lo comprendas? Mi senda no es tu senda y, sin embargo, caminamos juntos, tomados de la mano." -Kahlil Gibran
"A man's true wealth is the good he does in the world." -Kahlil Gibran
"الموسيقى ترافق أرواحنا وتجتاز معنا مراحل الحياة، تشاطرنا الأرزاء والأفراح وتساهمنا السّرَّاء والضّرَّاء. وتقوم كالشَّاهد في أيام مسرّتنا وكقريبٍ شفيقٍ في أيام شقائنا." -Kahlil Gibran
"A traveller I am, and a navigator, and everyday I discover a new region within my soul." -Kahlil Gibran
"لابد للكشف عن الحق من اثنين : رجل يجهر به و آخر يفهمه ." -Kahlil Gibran
"من نه عاشق بودمو نه محتاج نگاهي که بلغزد بر منمن خودم بودم و يک حس غريبکه به صد عشق و هوس مي ارزيد من خودم بودم دستي که صداقت ميکاشتگر چه در حسرت گندم پوسيدمن خودم بودم هر پنجره ايکه به سرسبزترين نقطه بودن وا بودو خدا ميداند بي کسي از ته دلبستگي ام پيدا بودمن نه عاشق بودمو نه دلداده به گيسوي بلندو نه آلوده به افکار پليدمن به دنبال نگاهي بودمکه مرا از پس ديوانگي ام ميفهميدآرزويم اين بوددور اما چه قشنگکه روم تا در دروازه نورتا شوم چيره به شفافي صبحبه خودم مي گفتمتا دم پنجره ها راهي نيستمن نمي دانستمکه چه جرمي دارددستهايي که تهي ستو چرا بوي تعفن داردگل پيري که به گلخانه نرستروزگاريست غريبتازگي مي گويندکه چه عيبي داردکه سگي چاق رود لاي برنجمن چه خوشبين بودمهمه اش رويا بودو خدا مي داندسادگي از ته دلبستگي ام پيدا بود" -Kahlil Gibran
"Advance, and never halt, for advancing is perfection. Advance and do not fear the thorns in the path, for they draw only corrupt blood." -Kahlil Gibran
"ما تجمعه الأحلام .. تُفرّقُه اليقظة" -Kahlil Gibran
"والعدل في الأرض يبكي الجن لو سمعوا ... به و يستضحك الأموات لو نظروافالسجن والموت للجانين إن صغروا..والمجد والفخر والإثراء.. إن كبروا!فسارق الزهر مذمومٌ ومحتقر..وسارق الحقل يدعى الباسل الخطروقاتل الجسم مقتول بفعلتهوقاتل الروح لا تدري به البشر" -Kahlil Gibran
"هناك بعض الاختبارات التي تضعنا امامها الحياة نستغربها بل وننكرها لانها تظهر لنا بمظاهر المستحيل ولكن استغرابنا ونكرننا لا يمحوان حقيقتها في نفوسنا" -Kahlil Gibran
"للجمال لغة سماوية تترفع عن الأصوات والمقاطيع التي تحدثها الشفاه والألسنة. لغة خالدة تضم إليها جميع أنغام البشر، وتجعلها شعورًا صامتًا مثلما تجتذب البحيرة الهادئة أغاني السواقي إلى أعماقها وتجعلها سكونًا أبديًا. إن الجمال سر تفهمه أرواحنا وتفرح به وتنمو بتأثيراته، أما أفكارنا فتقف أمامه محتارة محاولة تحديده وتجسيده بالألفاظ ولكنها لا تستطيع - هو سيال خاف عن العين تتموج بين عواطف الناظر وحقيقة المنظور. الجمال الحقيقي هو أشعة تنبعث من قدس أقداس النفس وتنير خارج الجسد مثلما تنبثق الحياة من أعماق النواة وتكسب الزهرة لونًا وعطرًا - هو تفاهم كلي بين الرجل والمرأة يتم بلحظة وبلحظة يولد ذلك الميل المترفع عن جميع الأميال. ذلك الانعطاف الروحي ندعوه حبًا." -Kahlil Gibran
"What is fear of need but need itself?" -Kahlil Gibran
"نصفُ شربةٍ لن تروي ظمأك، ونصفُ وجبةٍ لن تشبعَ جُوعك، نصفُ طريقِ لن يوصلك إلى أيّ مكانٍ، ونصفُ فكرةٍ لن تُعطي لك نتيجة.. النصفُ هو لحظة عجزك وأنت لست بعاجز .. لأنك لست نصفَ إنسان. أنت إنسانٌ .. وُجدت كي تعيش الحياة، وليسَ كي تعيش نصفَ حياة" -Kahlil Gibran
"Fue así que me enloquecí.Y en mi locura he hallado libertad y seguridad; la libertad de la soledad y la seguridad de no ser comprendido, pues quienes nos comprenden esclavizan una parte de nuestro ser." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن قلب المرأة لا يتغير مع الزمن ولا يتحول مع الفصول، قلب المرأة ينازع طويلاً ولكنه لا يموت، قلب المرأة يشابه البرية التي يتخذها الإنسان ساحة لحروبه ومذابحه، فهو يقتلع أشجارها ويحرق أعشابها ويلطخ صخورها بالدماء ويغرس تربتها بالعظام والجماجم، ولكنها تبقى هادئة ساكنة مطمئنة ويظل يها الربيع ربيعاً والخريف خريفاً إلى نهاية الدهور" -Kahlil Gibran
"إني لأوثر أن أكون الأدنى بين ذوي الأحلام الطامحين إلى تحقيقها على أن أكون الأعلى بين مَنْ لا حُلم لهم ولا طموح." -Kahlil Gibran
"Yea, I shall return with the tide." -Kahlil Gibran
"Give your hearts, but not into each other's keeping. For only the hand of Life can contain your hearts. And stand together, yet not too near together: For the pillars of the temple stand apart, And the oak tree and the cypress grow not in each other's shadow." -Kahlil Gibran
"تسلك المرأة طريق العبيد لتسود الرجل، ويسلك الرجل طريق الأسياد لتستعبده المرأة." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن الجمال نصيب المتأملين" -Kahlil Gibran
"رُبَّ إخفاق في حياء أنبل من نجاح في تبجُّح." -Kahlil Gibran
"if you cannot but weep when your soul summons you to prayer, she should spur you again and yet again, though weeping, until you shall come laughing" -Kahlil Gibran
"He who loses his mother loses a pure soul who blesses and guards him constantly." -Kahlil Gibran
"تتغير الأشياء أمام أعيننا بتغيُّر عواطفنا ، وهكذا نتوهم الأشياء متَّشِحة بالسحر والجمال عندما لا يكون السحر والجمال إلا في نفوسنا ." -Kahlil Gibran
"Oftentimes have I heard you speak of one who commits a wrong as though he were not one of you, but a stranger unto you and an intruder upon your world.But I say that even as the holy and the righteous cannot rise beyond the highest which is in each one of you,So the wicked and the weak cannot fall lower than the lowest which is in you also.And as a single leaf turns not yellow but with the silent knowledge of the whole tree,So the wrong-doer cannot do wrong without the hidden will of you all.Like a procession you walk together towards your god-self.You are the way and the wayfarers.And when one of you falls down he falls for those behind him, a caution against the stumbling stone. " -Kahlil Gibran
"الشاعر مَلك خُلع عن عرشه، جلس بين أطلال قصره يحاول أن يسوّي من الاطلال صورة" -Kahlil Gibran
"There are those who give with joy, and that joy is their reward." -Kahlil Gibran
"عندما تصلُ إلى جوهرِ الحياة ستحسُ الجمال في كل شئ ، حتى في العيون التي عميت عن رويةِ الجمال ." -Kahlil Gibran
"ونحن الذين تبلدت منا الحواس ننظر فى رائعة النهار فلا نرى شيئا،ونصيخ آذاننا فلا نسمع،ونبسط أيدينا فلا نلمس." -Kahlil Gibran
"Rest in reason. Move in Passion." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن البلبل لا يحوك عشاً في القفص كيلا يورث العبودية لفراخه" -Kahlil Gibran
"Love is the only flower that grows and blossoms without the aid of the seasons" -Kahlil Gibran
"الفراشة التي تظل مرفرفة حول السراج حتى تحترق هي أسمى من الخلد الذي يعيش براحة وسلام في نفقه المظلم!" -Kahlil Gibran
"لستُ ممنْ يندمون على وضعِ ما في نفوسِهِم بين شِفاهِهم، ولستُ ممنْ ينفونَ في يقظَتِهِم ما يُثبتونَهُ في أحلامِهِم" -Kahlil Gibran
"هل وهبنا الله نسمة الحياة لنضعها تحت أقدام الموت، وأعطانا الحرية لنجعلها ظلاً للاستعباد؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"و يلٌ لأمة تأكل مما لا تزرع ، و تلبـس مما لا تنسج ، إنها يومئذ أمة عقيمة ، لا صوت لها و لا رأي و لا وجود" -Kahlil Gibran
"For if you bake bread with indifference, you bake a bitter bread that feeds but half man's hunger." -Kahlil Gibran
"وإنى وإياك لنعرف هؤلاء المزيفين القول، الذين لا يعظمون إلا من هو أكثر منهم زيفاً، هؤلاء الذين يحملون عقولهم فى سلاسل إلى الأسواق يبيعونها أول من يساومهم عليها." -Kahlil Gibran
"Yet the timeless in you is aware of life's timelessness, And knows that yesterday is but today's memory and tomorrow is today's dream. And that that which sings and contemplates in you is still dwelling within the bounds of that first moment which scattered the stars into space. Who among you does not feel that his power to love is boundless? And yet who does not feel that very love, though boundless, encompassed within the centre of his being, and moving not from love thought to love thought, nor from love deeds to other love deeds? And is not time even as love is, undivided and paceless?" -Kahlil Gibran
"الجمال الحقيقي هو أشعة تنبعث من قدس أقداس النفس وتنير خارج الجسد مثلما تنبثق الحياة من أعماق النواة وتكسب الزهرة لوناً وعطراً." -Kahlil Gibran
"كلُّ حافز ضرير، إلا إذا اقترن بالمعرفة.وكلُّ معرفةٍ هباءُ، إلا إذان رافقها العمل.وكلُّ عملٍ خواءُ، إلا إذا امتزج بالحب." -Kahlil Gibran
"And let your best be for your friend.If he must know the ebb of your tide, let him know its flood also.For what is your friend that you should seek him with hours to kill?Seek him always with hours to live.For it is his to fill your need, but not your emptiness.And in the sweetness of friendship let there be laughter, and sharing of pleasures.For in the dew of little things the heart finds its morning and is refreshed." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your house is your larger body." -Kahlil Gibran
"The breath of life is in the sunlight and the hand of life is in the wind." -Kahlil Gibran
"I am a stranger in this world, and there is a severe solitude and painful lonesomeness in my exile." -Kahlil Gibran
"من يشنقه صوت الماضيلا يستطيع مخاطبة المستقبل !" -Kahlil Gibran
"هؤلاء الذين يقيسون ضمير العالم بمقياس ضمائرهم و يحللون مراد الوجود بالفكرة القصيرة التي يستخدمونها لحفظ وجودهم الفردي فكأن الشمس لم تكن إلا لتدفئتهم، و كأن البحر لم يوجد إلا لغسل أرجلهم." -Kahlil Gibran
"والصبي الحساس الذي يشعر كثيراً ويعرف قليلاً هو أتعس المخلوقات أمام وجه الشمس لأن نفسه تظل واقفة بين قوتين هائلتين متباينتين: قوة خفية تحلق به إلى السحاب وتريه محاسن الكائنات من وراء ضباب الأحلام، وقوة ظاهرة تقيده بالأرض وتغمر بصيرته بالغبار وتتركه ضائعاً خائفاً في ظلمة حالكة." -Kahlil Gibran
"البئر الواحدة التى تسقون منها ماء ضحككم قد طالما ملئت من سخين دموعكم" -Kahlil Gibran
"إن الإنسان وإن ولد حراً يظل عبداً لقسوة الشرائع التي سنها آباؤه وأجداده." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن بهرجة الأعراس الشرقية تصعد بنفوس الفتيان والصبايا صعود النسر إلى ما وراء الغيوم ثم تهبط بهم هبوط حجر الرحى إلى أعماق أليم ، بل هي مثل آثار الأقدام على رمال الشاطئ لا تلبث أن تمحوها الأمواج." -Kahlil Gibran
"المرأة السامية تستلزم وجود الطيبة في روح الرجل حتى ولو كان جاهلاً.الشعلة الزرقاء - جبران" -Kahlil Gibran
"إنَّ كآبةَ الوالدَيْن لزوَاجِ الابنةِ يُضارعُ فرحَهُما بِزوَاجِ الابن، لأنَّ هَذَا ُيكسِبُ العَائلةَ عُضوًا جَديدًا، أمَّا ذَاك فيَسلُبُها عُضوًا قَدِيمًا عَزيزًا." -Kahlil Gibran
"These things he said in words. But much in his heart remained unsaid.For he himself could not speak his deeper secret." -Kahlil Gibran
"نصف ما أقوله لك لا معنى له، غير أنى أقوله لعل النصف الآخر يبلغك" -Kahlil Gibran
"هكذا صرت مجنوناًولكني وجدت بجنوني هذا, الحرية والنجاة معاًحرية الإنفراد, والنجاة من أن يدرك الناس كيانيلأن الذين يُدركون كياننا إنما يستعبدون بعض ما فينا." -Kahlil Gibran
"And is not the lute that soothes your spirit the very wood that was hollowed with knives?" -Kahlil Gibran
"Work is love made visible." -Kahlil Gibran
"Love gives nothing but itself, and takes nothing but from itself. Love does not possess, nor would it be possessed. And do not think that you can direct the course of love, for love, if it finds you worthy, directs your course. Love has no other desire but to fulfill itself." -Kahlil Gibran
"قد ينتحر المرء خلال دفاعه عن نفسه" -Kahlil Gibran
"علموا الإنسان أن يرى بسمعه ويسمع بقلبه" -Kahlil Gibran
"When you work you are a flute through whose heart the whispering of the hours turns to music." -Kahlil Gibran
"الحُب كالزمن .. لا ينقسم ولا يُقاس !" -Kahlil Gibran
"و من منا لا يتأفف و يتبرم إذا علم أن الأشياء المختصة به دون سواه قد مرت بين أصابع و أمام عيون من ليس لهم الحق بمعرفتها؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"FOR HEAVEN'S SAKE, MY HEART!For heaven's sake, my heart, keep secret your love, and hide the secret from those you see and you will have better fortune.He who reveals secrets is considered a fool; silence and secrecy are much better for him who falls in love.For heaven's sake, my heart, if someone asks, ""What has happened?"", do not answer.If you are asked, ""Who is she?"";Say she is in love with anotherAnd pretend that it is of no consequence.For heaven's sake, my love, conceal your passion; your sickness is also your medicine because love to the soul is as wine in a glass - what you see is liquid, what is hidden is its spirit.For heaven's sake, my heart, conceal your troubles; then, should the seas roar and the skies fall, you will be safe." -Kahlil Gibran
"ماذا أقول في أمثال هؤلاء ؟؟إنهم كجميع الناس يقفون في أشعة الشمس و لكنهم يولون الشمس ظهورهم ،، فهم لذلك لا ينظرون سوى أظلالهم" -Kahlil Gibran
"Saying this, he turned his head toward the window as if he were trying to solve the problems of human existence by concentrating on the beauty of the universe." -Kahlil Gibran
"منذ ابتداء الدهر إلى أيامنا هذه والفئة المتمسكة بالشرف الموروث تتحالف وتتفق مع الكهان ورؤساء الأديان على الشعب هي علة مزمنة قابضة بأظفارها على عنق الجامعة البشرية ولن تزول الا بزوال الغباوة من هذا العالم عندما يصير عقل كل رجل ملكا ويصبح قلب كل امرأة كاهنا" -Kahlil Gibran
"Look at the Darkness, giving birth to the Sun" -Kahlil Gibran
"Your house shall be not an anchor but a mastIt shall not be a glistening film that covers a wound, but an eyelid that guards the eye." -Kahlil Gibran
"لسوف تحيا بذورك فى جسدي،وتُزهر براعمُ غدك في قلبي،ويصبح عبيرك أنفاسي،ومعاً نبتهج على مر الفصول" -Kahlil Gibran
"For that which is boundless in you abides in the mansion of the sky, whose door is the morning mist, and whose windows are the songs and the silences of night." -Kahlil Gibran
"إنكم تستلذون أن تضعوا شرائع لأنفسكم، بيد أنكم تستلذون أكثر أن تكسروها وتتعدوا فرائضها" -Kahlil Gibran
"That which seems most feeble and bewildered in you is the strongest and most determined.Is it not your breath that has erected and hardened the structure of your bones?" -Kahlil Gibran
"قلبی را که عشق می‌ورزداما رام نمی‌شودمی‌سوزد اما نرم نمی‌شودمی‌پذیری؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"What is it to die but to stand naked in the wind and to melt into the sun?" -Kahlil Gibran
"منذ البدء و ظلام الليل يخيم علي أرواحنا فأي متي يجئ الفجر؟ من الحبوس إلي الحبوس تنتقل أجسادنا و الأجيال تمربنا ساخرة فإلي متي نحتمل سخرية الأجيال ؟ و من نير ثقيل إلي نيرأثقل تذهب أعناقنا و أمم الأرض تنظر من بعيد ضاحكة منا فإلام نصبر علي ضحك الأمم ؟ و من القيود إلي القيود تسير ركابنا فلا القيود تفني و لا نحن ننقرض . فإلي متي نحيا ؟من عبودية المصريين إلي سبي بابل إلي قساوة الفرس إلي خدمة الإغريقيين إلي استبداد الروم إلي مظالم المغول إلي مطامع الإفرنج فإلي أين نحن سائرون الآن ، و أي متي نبلغ جبهة العقبة ؟من مقابض فرعون إلي مخالب نبوخذنصر إلي أظافر الاسكندر إلي أسياف هيرودس إلي براثن نيرون إلي أنياب الشيطان فإلي يد من نحن ذاهبون الآن ، و أي متي نبلغ قبضة الموت فنرتاح من سكينة العدم ؟بعزم سواعدنا قد رفعوا أعمدة الهياكل و المعابد لمجد آلهتهم ، و علي ظهورنا قد نقلوا الطين والحجارة لبناء الأسوار و البروج لتعزيز حماهم ، و بقوي أجسادنا قد أقاموا الأهرام لتخليد أسمائهم ، فحتي متي نبني القصور و الصروح ولا نسكن غير الأكواخ و الكهوف ،و نملأ الأهرام والخزائن و لا نأكل غير الثوم و الكراث ، ونحوك الحريرو الصوف ولا نلبس غيرالمسوح و الأطمار ؟ بخبثهم و احتيالهم قد فرّقوا بين العشيرة و العشيرة و أبعدوا الطائفة عن الطائفة،و بغّضوا القبيلة بالقبيلة، فحتي متي نتبدد كالرماد أمام هذه الزوبعة القاسية، ونتصارع كالأشبال الجائعة بقرب هذه الجيفة النتنة ؟ لحفظ عروشهم وطمنأنينة قلوبهم قد سلّحوا الدرزي لمقاتلة العربي و حـمّـسوا الشيعي لمصارعة السني و نشّطوا الكردي لذبح البدوي و شجّعوا الأحمدي لمنازعة المسيحي ، فحتي متي يصرع الأخ أخاه علي صدر الأم و إلي متي يتوعد الجار جاره بجانب قبر الحبيبة وإلام يتباعد الصليب عن الهلال أمام عين الله؟ أصغي أيتها الحرية و أسمعينا ، التفتي يا أم ساكني الأرض و انظرينا فنحن لسنا أبناء ضرّتك ، تكلمي بلسان فرد واحد منا ، فمن شرارة واحدة يشتعل القش اليابس ، أيقظي بحفيف أجنحتك روح رجل من رجالنا ،فمن سحابة واحدة ينبثق البرق و ينير بلحظة خلايا الأودية و قمم الجبال ، بددي بعزمك هذه الغيوم و انزلي كالصاعقة و اهدمي كالمنجنيق قوائئم العروش المرفوعة علي العظام و الجماجم المصفحة بذهب الجزية و الرشوة ، المغمورة بالدماء و الدموع .اسمعينا أيتها الحرية ، ارحمينا يا ابنة أثينا ، أنقذينا يا أخت رومة ، خلصينا يا رفيقة موسي ، أسفعينا يا حبيبة محمد ، علمينا يا عروسة يسوع ، قوي قلوبنا لنحيا أو شددي .سواعد أعدائناعلينا فنفني و ننقرض و نرتاح" -Kahlil Gibran
"إن أعذب ما تحدثه الشفاه البشرية هو لفظة « الأم » ، وأجمل مناداة هي : يا أمي ، كلمة صغيرة كبيرة مملوءة بالأمل والحب والانعطاف ، وكل ما في القلب البشري من الرقة والحلاوة والعذوبة . الأم هي كل شيء في هذه الحياة ، هي التعزية في الحزن ، والرجاء في اليأس ، والقوة في الضعف ، هي ينبوع الحنو والرأفة والشفقة والغفران ، فالذي يفقد أمه يفقد صدرًا يسند إليه رأسه ويدًا تباركه وعينًا تحرسه … كل شيء في الطبيعة يرمز ويتكلم عن الأمومة ، فالشمس هي أم هذه الأرض ترضعها حرارتها وتحتضنها بنورها ، ولا تغادرها عند المساء إلا بعد أن تنوّمها على نغمة أمواج البحر وترنيمة العصافير والسواقي ، وهذه الأرض هي أم للأشجار والأزهار تلِدُها وتُرضعها ثم تَفطمها . والأشجار والأزهار تصير بدورها أمهات حنونات للأثمار الشهية والبزور الحية . وأم كل شيء في الكيان هي الروح الكلية الأزلية الأبدية المملوءة بالجمال والمحبة ." -Kahlil Gibran
"وها اني أضع قبلة في راحة يمينكِ، وقبلة ثانية في راحة شمالكِ، طالباً من الله أن يحرسك ويبارككِ ويملأ قلبكِ بأنواره، وأن يبقيكِ أحب الناس إلى" -Kahlil Gibran
"لتعط كل إنسان وفق حاجته، فالخالق لا يعطى الملح للعطشان، ولا الحجر للجوعان، ولا اللبن للفطيم." -Kahlil Gibran
"البغضاء موت...من منك يحب أن يكون لحداً؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"للبحر مد وجزر، وللقمر نقص وكمال، وللزمن صيف وشتاء، أما الحق فلا يحول ولا يزول ولا يتغير.فلماذا تحاولون تشويه وجه الحق؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"ولكن ايسوغ للمراة ان تشتري سعادتها بتعاسة بعلها ؟فاجابتني نفسي قائلة وهل يجوز للرجل ان يستعبد عواطف زوجته ليبقي سعيدا ؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"And some of your elders remember pleasures with regret like wrongs committed in drunkenness.But regret is the beclouding of the mind and not its chastisement. They should remember their pleasures with gratitude, as they would the harvest of a summer." -Kahlil Gibran
"you can muffle the drum, and you can loosen the strings of the lyre, but who shall command the skylark not to sing?" -Kahlil Gibran
"كثيرة حقاً هذه البوم التى لا تعرف شدواً غير نعيقها." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your pain is the breaking of the shell that encloses your understanding.Even as the stone of the fruit must break, that its heart maystand in the sun, so must you know pain.And could you keep your heart in wonder at the daily miracles ofyour life, your pain would not seem less wondrous than your joy;And you would accept the seasons of your heart, even as you havealways accepted the seasons that pass over your fields.And you would watch with serenity through the winters of your grief" -Kahlil Gibran
"قد تكون أسمى الفضائل في عالمنا هي أدناها في عالم آخر" -Kahlil Gibran
"In the summer heat the reapers say, 'We have seen her dancing with the autumn leaves, and we saw a drift of snow in her hair." -Kahlil Gibran
"دينكم رياء ودنياكم ادعاء وآخرتكم هباء فلماذا تحيون والموت راحة الأشقياء؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"A God who is good knows no segregation amongst words or names. And were a God to deny his blessing to those who pursue a different path to eternity, there would be no human who should offer worship." -Kahlil Gibran
"كلُّنا نتسلَّق إلى قِمَّة نزوات القلب. فإن سرق متسلِّقٌ حقيبتكَ ومحفظة نقودكَ فأبدَنَتْهَ الأولى وأثقلت كاهلَه الثانية فاشفقْ عليه، لأنَّ التَّسلُّق سيغدو عليه عسيراً وأحماله ستجعل طريقه طويلة. وإنْ رأيتَه وأنتَ في نحولِكَ وهو يرزح تحت حِمْله، ساعدْه فذلك يزيد مِن سرعتِك. " -Kahlil Gibran
"وما رفعت نظري أول مرة لأراه حتى قبّلت الشمس وجهي العاري لأول مرة. لأوّل مرة قبلت الشمس وجهي العاري فالتهبت نفسي بمحبة الشمس ولم أعد بحاجة إلى براقعي. وكأنما أنا في غيبوبة صرخت قائلاً: "" مباركون مباركون أولئك اللصوص الذين سرقوا براقعي!!"" ." -Kahlil Gibran
"ولأنى ككل الأطفال !أشعر أنني أريد أن أقول لك فقط:'أحبك' ومن ثمّ أبكي،أبكي لأنها لا تعبر عن الكثير،ولأنها تختصر الكثير،ولأن الأطفال حينما يعجزون عن التعبير يبكونويرددون كلمة واحدة غير مفهومة ومبهمة." -Kahlil Gibran
"صديقك هو حاجة لك قضيتُ ، وهو حقلك تلقى فيه البذور فى حب ، وتجنى منه الثمار فى شكر." -Kahlil Gibran
"وجدتني أخرس مرة واحدة: حين سألني امرؤ "" من انت؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"إن المدنية الحاضرة قد أنمت مدارك المرأة قليلاً ولكنها أكثرت أوجاعها بتعميم مطامع الرجل، كانت المرأة بالأمس خادمة سعيدة فصارت اليوم سيدة تعسة، كانت بالأمس عمياء تسير في نور النهار فأصبحت مبصرة تسير في ظلمة الليل، كانت جميلة بجهلها فاضلة بباسطتها قوية بضعفها فصارت قبيحة بتفننها سطحية بمداركها بعيدة عن القلب بمعارفها." -Kahlil Gibran
"رحاله أنا وملاح،ومع مطلع كل يوم ينكشف لى فى روحى أقليم جديد" -Kahlil Gibran
"السلاحفُ أعلمُ بالطريق من الأرانب ." -Kahlil Gibran
"Long were the days of pain I have spent within its walls, and long were the nights of aloneness; and who can depart from his pain and his aloneness without regret?" -Kahlil Gibran
"صرت مجنونا ، و لكني وجدت بجنوني هذا ، الحرية و النجاة معا : حرية الانفراد ، و النجاة من أن يدرك الناس كياني ، لأن الذين يدركون كياننا إنما يستعبدون بعض ما فينا" -Kahlil Gibran
"My life is quiet. There is little beside working and walking. I have no desire to see people, and I feel as though I am waiting for something new and strange which will burn the unburnt side of my soul." -Kahlil Gibran
"إذا لم تفهم صديقك في كل حال فلن تفهمه أبداً ." -Kahlil Gibran
"هيهات أن أعلمك كلمات تردد ف دعاء فالله يستجيب أكثر لكلمات أجراها علي شفاهكم" -Kahlil Gibran
"In the depths of your hopes and desires lies your silent knowledge of the beyond;And like seeds dreaming beneath the snow your heart dreams of spring.Trust the dreams, for in them is hidden the gate to eternity." -Kahlil Gibran
"الرحمة نصف العدالة" -Kahlil Gibran
"Among the hills, when you sit in the cool shade of the white poplars, sharing the peace and serenity of distant fields and meadows - then let your heart say in silence, ""God rests in reason."" And when the storm comes, and the mighty wind shakes the forest, and thunder and lightning proclaim the majesty of the sky, - then let your heart say in awe, ""God moves in passion." -Kahlil Gibran
"وحين تمضون في العمل تمارسون في الحق حب الحياة" -Kahlil Gibran
"ثم تفترش القش اليابس مسندة رأسها بساعديها وتنام متنهدة متمنية لو كانت الحياة كلها نوماً عميقاًلا تقطعه الأحلام ولا تليه اليقظة." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your joy is your sorrow unmasked...The deeper that sorrow carves into your being, the more joy you can contain...I say unto you, they are inseparable.Together they come, and when one sits alone with you at your board, remember that the other is asleep upon your bed." -Kahlil Gibran
"گنجی که در اعماق نامحدود شما حبس شده است ، در لحظه ای که خود نمی دانید ، کشف خواهد شد "" ." -Kahlil Gibran
"فالفن أن نعكس روح الشجرة لا أن نرسم جزيئاتها، وأن نأتي بضمير البحر لا أن نصور أمواجه بتلاطمها، وأن نرى في المألوف ما ليس مألوفا" -Kahlil Gibran
"إن النفس الحزينة المتألمة تجد راحة بانضمامها إلى نفس أخرى تماثلها بالشعور وتشاركها بالإحساس مثلما يستأنس الغريب بالغريب في أرض بعيدة عن وطنيهما - فالقلوب التي تدنيها أوجاع الكآبة بعضها مع بعض لا تفرقها بهجة الأفراح وبهرجتها، فرابطة الحزن أقوى في النفوس من رورابط الغبطة والسرور؛ والحب الذي تغسله العيون بدموعها يظل طاهرًا وجميلًا وخالدًا." -Kahlil Gibran
"You cannot judge any man beyond your knowledge of him, and how small is your knowledge." -Kahlil Gibran
"For love is sufficient unto love." -Kahlil Gibran
"هل لطاغيةٍ أنْ يَحكمَ الأحرار والأعزة إلا إذا شابَ حريَتهم الاستبداد ، وخالط عزتهم العار ؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"قد تنسى مَنْ شاركك الضحك، ولكنك لا تنسى أبدًا مَنْ شاطرك البكاء." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن النفس الكئيبة تجد راحة بالعزلة والانفراد فتهجر الناس مثلما يبتعد الغزال الجريح عن سربه ويتوارى في كهفه حتى يبرأ أو يموت" -Kahlil Gibran
"ربّ اجعلني فريسةً للأسد قبل أن تجعل الأرنبَ فريسةً لي ." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن المحبة المحدودة تطلب امتلاك المحبوب ، أما المحبة غير المتناهية فلا تطلب غير ذاتها ." -Kahlil Gibran
"The things which the child loves remain in the domain of the heart until old age. The most beautiful thing in life is that our souls remain hovering over the places where we once enjoyed ourselves. I am one of those who remembers those places regardless of distance or time." -Kahlil Gibran
"كما يتوّجك الحبّ.. يعذّبك" -Kahlil Gibran
"هو واحد من القليلين الذين يجيئون هذا العالم ويغادرونه قبل أن يلامسوا بالأذى نفس مخلوق ــ ولكن هؤلاء الرجال يكونون غالباً تعساء مظلومين لأنهم يجهلون سبل الاحتيال التي تنقذهم من مكر الناس وخبثهم" -Kahlil Gibran
"Joy and sorrow are inseparable, together they came and where one sits alone with you at the board remember that the other is asleep upon your bed" -Kahlil Gibran
"أنت حرُّ حين تطالعك شمس يومك، وحرُّ حين تُظلّك نجوم الليل.وأنت حرُّ حين لا شمس ولا قمر ولا نجوم.بل أنت حرُّ حين تُغمض عينيك عن كل ما هو موجودولكنك عبدٌ لمن أحببت لأنك تُحبّهوعبدٌ لمن أحبّك لأنه يُحبك." -Kahlil Gibran
"-أسمعينا أيتها الحرية ، أرحمينا يا ابنة اثينا ، أنقذينا يا أخت روما ،خلصينا يا رفيقة موسى ، أسعفينا يا حبيبة محمد ، علمينا يا عروسة اليسوع ، قوى قلوبنا لنحيى أو شددى سواعد أعدائنا علينا فنفنى و ننقرض ونرتاح" -Kahlil Gibran
"For the breath of life is in the sunlight and the hand of life is in the wind." -Kahlil Gibran
"Love has no other desire but to fulfill itself." -Kahlil Gibran
"عندما تكون صامتا مصغيا الى ذاتك العميقة، في حلمك المستيقظ، تنثال أفكارك انثيال الثلوج المندوفة، وتتهاوى وتنتثر وتلف أصداء فضائك بصمت أبيض.وأي شيء هي الأحلام المستيقظة سوى غمام يبرعم ويتفتح في شجرة سماء قلبك؟ وأي شيء هي أفكارك سوى الأوراق التي تذروها رياح قلبك على الروابي وحقولها؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"إن المرأة التي تمنحها الآلهة جمال النفس مشفوعًا بجمال الجسد هي حقيقة ظاهرة غامضة نفهمها بالمحبة ونلمسها بالطهر، وعندما نحاول وصفها بالكلام تختفي عن بصائرنا وراء ضباب الحيرة والالتباس." -Kahlil Gibran
"كذا يُضعف القنوط بصيرتنا ، فلا نرى غير أشباحنا الرهيبة ، وهكذا يصمّ اليأس آذاننا ، فلا نسمع غير طرقات قلوبنا المضطربة ." -Kahlil Gibran
"لا يوجد في داخل الإنسان عاطفة أنقى وأعذب من تلك العاطفة الخفية التي تستفيق على حين غفلة في قلب الصبية وتملأ خلايا صدرها بالأنغام السحرية وتجعل أيامها شبيهة بأحلام الشعراء ولياليها مثل الأنبياء ، ولا يوجد بين أسرار الطبيعة سر أقوى وأجمل من ذلك الميل الذي يحول سكينة نفس العذراء إلى حراك مستمر يميت بعزمه ذكرى الأيام الغابرة ويحيي بحلاوته الآمال بالأيام الآتية" -Kahlil Gibran
"إنها تعطي لتحيا، لأن الامتناع عن العطاء سبيل الفناء" -Kahlil Gibran
"What shall i say of these save that they too stand in the sunlight, but with their backs to the sun?They see only their shadows, and their shadows are their laws." -Kahlil Gibran
"كذا يبتدع الإنسان من المسكين سفاحا باستمساكه , و من ابن السلام قاتلا بقساوته..." -Kahlil Gibran
"إذا أشارت إليكم المحبة فاتبعوها, وإن كانت مسالكها صعبة متحدرة.وإذا ضمتكم جناحيها فاطيعوها, وإن جرحكم السيف المستور بين ريشها. واذا خاطبتكم المحبة فصدقُوها, وإن عَطل صوتها أحلامكم وبدَدها كما تجعل الريح الشمالية البستان قاعا صفصفا.لأنه كما أن المحبة تكللكم فهي أيضا تصلبكم,وكما تعمل على نموكم هكذا تعلمكم وتستأصل الفاسد منكم." -Kahlil Gibran
"الحياة موكب عظيم، ينظر إليه بطىء الخطى فيحسبه سريعاً جداً ولذلك يهرب منه. وينظر إليه سريع الخطى فيحسبه بطيئاً ويهرب منه." -Kahlil Gibran
"ثمة مسافة بين ما يتخيّل المرء وما يحقّقه، لا يقطعها غير شوقه." -Kahlil Gibran
"ان المرأة التى تمنحها الآلهة جمال النفس مشفوعا بجمال الجسد هى حقيقة ظاهرة غامضة نفهمها بالمحبة ونلمسها بالطهر، وعندما نحاول وصفها بالكلام تختفى عن بصائرنا وراء ضباب الحيرة والالتباس""." -Kahlil Gibran
"Tolerance is love sick with the sickness of haughtiness." -Kahlil Gibran
"Then a lawyer said, But what of our laws, master? And he answered: 'You delight in laying down laws. Yet you delight more in breaking them." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن ما تهمس به جنباتنا هو الذي يغذي ألمنا الدفين. وهو أيضا الذي ينحت لأرواحنا شكلا ويصرف أقدارنا" -Kahlil Gibran
"من العجب أن حماستنا حين ندافع عن سيئاتنا أكثر منها حين ندافع عن طيّباتنا" -Kahlil Gibran
"For to be idle is to become a stranger unto the seasons, and to step out of life's procession that marches in majesty and proud submission towards the infinite." -Kahlil Gibran
"Long ago you were a dream in your mother's sleep, and then she awoke to give you birth." -Kahlil Gibran
"And then a scholar said, ""Speak of talking."" And he answered, saying: ""And when you can no longer dwell in the solitude of your heart you live in your lips, and sound is a diversion and a pastime." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your friend is your needs answered.When you part from your friend, you grieve not;For that which you love most in him may be clearer in his absence, as the mountain to the climber is clearer from the plain." -Kahlil Gibran
"Then a ploughman said, speak to us of work: in keeping yourself with labour you are in truth loving life,And to love life through labour is to be intimate with inmost secrets.And what is it to work with love?It is to weave the cloth with threads from your heart, even as if your beloved were to wear that cloth.It is to build a house with affection, even as if your beloved were to dwell in that house.It is to sow seeds with tenderness and reap the harvest with joy, even as if your beloved were to eat the fruit .It is to change all things you fashion with a breath of your own spirit.He who works in marble, and finds the shape of his own soul in the stone, is nobler than he who ploughs the soil." -Kahlil Gibran
"You give but little when you give of your possessions.It is when you give of yourself that you truly give.For what are your possessions but things you keep and guard for fear you may need them tomorrow?And tomorrow, what shall tomorrow bring to the overprudent dog burying bones in the trackless sand as he follows the pilgrims to the holy city?And what is fear of need but need itself?Is not dread of thirst when your well is full, the thirst that is unquenchable?There are those who give little of the much which they have--and they give it for recognition and their hidden desire makes their gifts unwholesome.And there are those who have little and give it all.These are the believers in life and the bounty of life, and their coffer is never empty.There are those who give with joy, and that joy is their reward.And there are those who give with pain, and that pain is their baptism.And there are those who give and know not pain in giving, nor do they seek joy, nor give with mindfulness of virtue;They give as in yonder valley the myrtle breathes its fragrance into space.Through the hands of such as these God speaks, and from behind their eyes He smiles upon the earth.It is well to give when asked, but it is better to give unasked, through understanding;And to the open-handed the search for one who shall receive is joy greater than giving.And is there aught you would withhold?All you have shall some day be given;Therefore give now, that the season of giving may be yours and not your inheritors'.You often say, ""I would give, but only to the deserving.""The trees in your orchard say not so, nor the flocks in your pasture.They give that they may live, for to withhold is to perish.Surely he who is worthy to receive his days and his nights, is worthy of all else from you.And he who has deserved to drink from the ocean of life deserves to fill his cup from your little stream.And what desert greater shall there be, than that which lies in the courage and the confidence, nay the charity, of receiving?And who are you that men should rend their bosom and unveil their pride, that you may see their worth naked and their pride unabashed?See first that you yourself deserve to be a giver, and an instrument of giving.For in truth it is life that gives unto life while you, who deem yourself a giver, are but a witness.And you receivers... and you are all receivers... assume no weight of gratitude, lest you lay a yoke upon yourself and upon him who gives.Rather rise together with the giver on his gifts as on wings;For to be overmindful of your debt, is to doubt his generosity who has the freehearted earth for mother, and God for father." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن الجامعة البشرية قد استسلمت سبعين قرنًا إلى الشرائع الفاسدة فلم تعد قادرة على إدراك معاني النواميس العلوية الأولية الخالدة . وقد تعودت بصيرة الإنسان النظر الى ضوء الشموع الضئيلة فلم تعد تستطيع أن تحدق إلى نور الشمس . لقد توارثت الأجيال الأمراض والعاهات النفسية بعضها عن بعض حتى أصبحت عمومية ، بل صارت من الصفات الملازمة للإنسان ، فلم يعد الناس ينظرون إليها كعاهات و أمراض بل يعتبرونها كخلال طبيعية نبيلة أنزلها الله على آدم ، فإذا ما ظهر بينهم فرد خالٍ منها ظنوه ناقصًا محرومًا من الكمالات الروحية ." -Kahlil Gibran
"الذكرى صورة من صور اللقاء" -Kahlil Gibran
"فلا تنسوا أن الاحتشام درع يقيكم من نظرات أهل الدنس. ..فإذا زال الدنس فأي شيء يبقى في الاحتشام سوى أنه كان قيدًا ومفسدة للعقل؟ولا تنسوا أن الأرض تهتز لمسّ أقدامكم العارية، وأن الرياح تحن إلى مداعبة شعوركم المرسلة" -Kahlil Gibran
"الحياة ظلام إلا إذا كان هناك أمل، و الأمل ضرير إلا إذا سبقته المعرفة، و كل معرفة بلا جدوى إذا لم يرافقها العمل، و كل عمل سوف يضيع إذا لم يمتزج بالحب !" -Kahlil Gibran
"لا يوجد نور اشد سطوعا واكثر لمعانا من الاشعه التي يبعثها الجنين السجين في ظلمة الاحشاء" -Kahlil Gibran
"And if our hands should meet in another dream, we shall build another tower in the sky." -Kahlil Gibran
"It was in my heart to help a little because I was helped much." -Kahlil Gibran
"Only those beneath me can envy or hate me. I have never been envied nor hated; I am above no one. Only those above me can praise or belittle me. I have never been praised nor belittled; I am below no one." -Kahlil Gibran
"ترى هل يكون يوم الفراق هو بعينه يوم التلاقي؟وهل يقال إن ساعة غروبي كانت في الحق ساعة مطلعي؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"ولا تقل في ذاتك : ""قد وجدتُ الحق"" بل قل بالأحرى: ""قد وجدت حقًا""." -Kahlil Gibran
"كلنا سجناء، غير أن فئة منّا في زنازين ذات نوافذ، وفئة لا نوافذ لزنازينها" -Kahlil Gibran
"ولكن هل يظل الانسان عبدا لشرائعه الفاسدة الى انقضاء الدهر أم تحرره الأيام ليحيا بالروح وللروح؟ أيبقى الانسان محدقا بالتراب أم يحول عينيه نحو الشمس كيلا يرى ظل جسده بين الأشواك والجماجم ؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"No matter how busy a man is, he is never too busy to stop and talk about how busy he is." -Kahlil Gibran
"The veil that clouds your eyes shall be lifted by the hands that wove it," -Kahlil Gibran
"الوحدة عاصفة ساكنة تحطّم أغصاننا الميتة. وهي مع ذلك تضرب بجذورها في أقصى أعماق القلب النابض من الأرض الحية" -Kahlil Gibran
"أليسَ الهيابُ من الظمأ وبئركَ مليئةُ بالماء , هو ذلك الظمأ الذي لن يرويه شيء؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"أعـطني النــاي وغني فالغنا ســـــر الخلود وأنين النـــاي يبقى بعد أن يفنى الوجــــودهل إتخذت الغـاب مثلي منزلاً دون القصورفتتبعـــت السـواقي وتسلقــت الصخــــــورهـــل تحممــــت بعطـــــر وتنشفــت بنــــوروشربت الفجـر خمـــراً من كؤوس من أثيرهل جلست العصر مثلي بين جفنات العنب والعنـاقيــــد تــدلـــت كثريــات الذهــــــــــبهل فرشت العشـــب ليلاً وتلحفت الفضــاء زاهداً في ما سيأتي ناسياً ما قد مضـىأعطني النـاي وغني وانســــى داء ودواءإنمــا النــاس ســــــطورٌ كتبت لكن بمــاء" -Kahlil Gibran
"For in truth it is life that gives unto life-while you, who deem yourself a giver, are but a witness." -Kahlil Gibran
"And an old priest said, Speak to us of Religion. And he said: Have I spoken this day of aught else? Is not religion all deeds and all reflection, And that which is neither deed nor reflection, but a wonder and a surprise ever springing in the soul, even while the hands hew the stone or tend the loom? Who can separate his faith from his actions, or his belief from his occupations? Who can spread his hours before him, saying, ""This for God and this for myself; This for my soul and this other for my body""? All your hours are wings that beat through space from self to self. He who wears his mortality but as his best garment were better naked. The wind and the sun will tear no holes in his skin. And he who defines his conduct by ethics imprisons his song-bird in a cage. The freest song comes not through bars and wires. And he to whom worshiping is a window, to open but also to shut, has not yet visited the house of his soul whose windows are from dawn to dawn. Your daily life is your temple and your religion. Whenever you enter into it take with you your all. Take the plough and the forge and the mallet and the lute, The things you have fashioned in necessity or for delight. For in reverie you cannot rise above your achievements nor fall lower than your failures. And take with you all men: For in adoration you cannot fly higher than their hopes nor humble yourself lower than their despair. And if you would know God, be not therefore a solver of riddles. Rather look about you and you shall see Him playing with your children. And look into space; you shall see Him walking in the cloud, outstretching His arms in the lightning and descending in rain. You shall see Him smiling in flowers, then rising and waving His hands in trees." -Kahlil Gibran
"The deeper that sorrow carves into your being, the more joy you can contain.Is not the cup that holds your wine the very cup that was burned in the potters oven?And is not the lute that soothes your spirits the very wood that was hollowed with knives?" -Kahlil Gibran
"إن الشيوخ يرجعون بالفكر إلى أيام شبابهم رجوع الغريب المشتاق إلى مسقط رأسه ويميل إلى سرد حكايات الصبا ميل الشاعر إلى تنغيم أبلغ قصائده فهم يعيشون بالروح في زوايا الماضي الغابر لأن الحاضر لا يمر بهم ولا يلتفت والمستقبل يبدو لأعينهم متشحاً بضباب الزوال وظلمة القبر." -Kahlil Gibran
"الذكرى هى شكل من اشكال اللقاء" -Kahlil Gibran
"هل وهبنا الله نسمة الحياة لنضعها تحت أقدام الموت ؟ وأعطانا الحرية لنجعلها ظلًّا للاستعباد ؟ إن من يخمد نار نفسه بيده يكون كافرًا بالسماء التي أوقدتها . ومن يصبر على الضيم ولا يتمرد على الظلم يكون حليف البطل على الحق وشريك السفّاحين بقتل الأبرياء . قد أحببتك يا سلمى وأحببتِني ، والحب كنز ثمين يودِعه الله النفوس الكبيرة الحساسة ، فهل نرمي بكنزنا إلى حظائر الخنازير لتبعثره بأنوفها وتذريه بأرجلها ؟ أمامنا العالم مسرحًا واسعًا مملوءًا بالمحاسن والغرائب ، فلماذا نسكن في هذا النفق الضيق الذي حفره المطران وأعوانه ؟ أمامنا الحياة وما في الحياة من الحرية وما في الحرية من الغبطة والسعادة ، فلماذا لا نخلع النير الثقيل عن عاتقينا ونكسر القيود الموثقة بأرجلنا ، ونسير إلى حيث الراحة والطمأنينة ؟ قومي يا سلمى نذهب من هذا المعبد الصغير إلى هيكل الله الأعظم . هلمي نرحل من هذه البلاد وما فيها من العبودية والغباوة إلى بلاد بعيدة لا تطالها أيدي اللصوص ولا يبلغها لهاث الأبالسة ، تعاليْ نسرع إلى الشاطئ مستترين بوشاح الليل ، فنعتلي سفينة تقلّنا إلى ما وراء البحار ، وهناك نحيا حياة مكتنفة بالطهر والتفاهم ، فلا تنفثنا الثعابين بأنفاسها ، ولا تدوسنا الضواري بأقدامها . لا تترددي يا سلمى ، فهذه الدقائق أثمن من تيجان الملوك وأسمى من سرائر الملائكة . قومي نتبع عمود النور فيقودنا من هذه الصحراء القاحلة إلى حقول تنبت الأزاهر والرياحين ." -Kahlil Gibran
"وهل يتعزى كسير القلب بالقلب الكسير ؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"لن تسرع الخطو ما أن تكونَ مُطارداً" -Kahlil Gibran
"إن الكتاب والشعراء يحاولون إدراك حقيقة المرأة ولكنهم للآن لم يفهموا أسرار قلبها ومخبآت صدرها لأنهم ينظرون اليها من وراء نقاب الشهوات فلا يرون غير خطوط جسدها أو يضعونها تحت مكبرات الكره فلا يجدون فيها غير الضعف والاستسلام." -Kahlil Gibran
"وإن كانت طاغية تودون خلعه عن عرشه فانظروا أولاً إن كان عرشه القائم في اعماقكم قد تهدم لأنه كيف يستطيع طاغية ان يحكم الاحرار الفخورين، ما لم يكن الطغيان اساسا لحريتهم والعار قاعدة لفخرهم؟ وإن كانت هماً ترغبون في التخلص منه، فان ذلك الهم انما انتم اخترتموه لانفسكم، ولم يفرضه احد عليكم.وان كانت خوفا تريدون طرده عنكم، فان جرثومة هذا الخوف مغروسة في صميم قلوبكم، وليست في يدي من او ما تخافون." -Kahlil Gibran
": ماذا فعلت المرأة يا رب فاستحقّت غضبك ؟ ! ماذا أتت من الذنوب ليتبعها سخطك إلى آخر الدهور ؟ ! هل اقترفت جرمًا لا نهاية لفظاعته ليكون عقابك لها بغير نهاية ؟ ! أنت قوي يا رب وهي ضعيفة ، فلماذا تبيدها بالأوجاع ؟ ! أنتَ عظيم وهي تدبّ حول عرشك ، فلماذا تسحقها بقدميك ؟ ! أنتَ عاصفة شديدة وهي كالغبار أمام وجهك ، فلماذا تذريها على الثلوج ؟ ! أنت جبار وهي بائسة ، فلماذا تحاربها ؟ ! أنت بصير عليم وهي تائهة عمياء ، فلماذا تهلكها ؟ ! أنت توجدها بالمحبة ، فكيف بالمحبة تُفنيها ؟ ! بيمينك ترفعها إليك وبشمالك تدفعها إلى الهاوية ، وهي جاهلة لا تدري أنَّى ترفعها وكيف تدفعها ؟ ! في فمها تنفخ نسمة الحياة ، وفي قلبها تزرع بذور الموت ، على سبل السعادة تسيرها راجلة ثم تبعث الشقاء فارسًا ليصطادها ، في حنجرتها تبث نغمة الفرح ثم تغلق شفتيها بالحزن وتربط لسانها بالكآبة ، بأصابعك الخفية تمنطق باللذة أوجاعها ، وبأصابعك الظاهرة ترتسم هالات الأوجاع حول ملذاتها ، في مضجعها تخفي الراحة والسلامة ، وبجانب مضجعها تقيم المخاوف والمتاعب ، بإرادتك تحيي ميولها ، ومن ميولها تتولد عيوبها وزلاتها ، بمشيئتك تريها محاسن مخلوقاتك ، وبمشيئتك تنقلب محبتها للحسن مجاعة مهلكة ، بشريعتك تزوج روحها من جسد جميل ، وبقضائك تجعل جسدها بَعْلًا للضعف والهوان . أنت تسقيها الحياة بكأس الموت والموت بكأس الحياة . أنت تطهرها بدموعها ، وبدموعها تذيبها . أنت تملأ حفنة الرجل من حبات صدرها . أنت أنت يا رب ، قد فتحت عيني بالمحبة ، وبالمحبة أعميتني ، أنت قبَّلتني بشفتيك ، وبيدك القوية صفعتني ، أنت زرعت في قلبي وردة بيضاء ، وحول هذه الوردة أنبتَّ الأشواك والحسَك ، أنت أوثقت حاضري بروح فتى أحبه ، وبجسد رجل لا أعرفه قيدت أيامي ؛ فساعدني لأكون قوية في هذا الصراع المميت ، وأسعِفْني لأبقى أمينة وطاهرة حتى الموت … لتكن مشيئتك يا رب ، ليكن اسمك مباركًا إلى النهاية ." -Kahlil Gibran
"السعادة صبية تولد وتحيا في أعماق القلب، ولن تجيء إليه من محيطه" -Kahlil Gibran
"You're reason and your passion are the rudder.. and the sails of your soul. If either be broken, you will drift or be held at a standstill in mid-seas. For reason, ruling alone, is a force confining; and passion, unattended, is a flame that burns to it's own destruction" -Kahlil Gibran
"It is not a garment I cast off this day, but a skin that I tear with my own hands." -Kahlil Gibran
"When a man kills another man, the people say he is a murderer, but when the Emir kills him, the Emir is just. When a man robs a monastery, they say he is a thief, but when the Emir robs him of his life, the Emir is honourable. When a woman betrays her husband, they say she is an adulteress, but when the Emir makes her walk naked in the streets and stones her later, the Emir is noble. Shedding of blood is forbidden, but who made it lawful for the Emir? Stealing one's money is a crime, but taking away one's life is a noble act. Betrayal of a husband may be an ugly deed, but stoning of living souls is a beautiful sight. Shall we meet evil with evil and say this is the Law? Shall we fight corruption with greater corruption and say this is the Rule? Shall we conquer crimes with more crimes and say this is Justice? Had not the Emir killed an enemy in his past life? Had he not robbed his weak subjects of money and property? Had he not committed adultery? Was he infallible when he killed the murderer and hanged the thief in the tree? Who are those who hanged the thief in the tree? Are they angels descended from heaven, or men looting and usurping? Who cut off the murderer's head? Are they divine prophets, or soldiers shedding blood wherever they go? Who stoned that adulteress? Were they virtuous hermits who came from their monasteries, or humans who loved to commit atrocities with glee, under the protection of ignorant Law? What is Law? Who saw it coming with the sun from the depths of heaven? What human saw the heart of God and found its will or purpose? In what century did the angels walk among the people and preach to them, saying, ""Forbid the weak from enjoying life, and kill the outlaws with the sharp edge of the sword, and step upon the sinners with iron feet?" -Kahlil Gibran
"إنما نعيش لنهتدي إلى الجمال، وكل ما خلا ذلك نوع من الانتظار" -Kahlil Gibran
"I have seen a face with a thousand countenances, and a face that was but a single countenance as if held in a mould. I have seen a face whose sheen I could look through to the ugliness beneath, and a face whose sheen I had to lift to see how beautiful it was. I have seen an old face much lined with nothing, and a smooth face in which all things were graven. I know faces, because I look through the fabric my own eye weaves, and behold the reality beneath." -Kahlil Gibran
"كان نيسان قد أنبت الأزهار والأعشاب فظهرت في بساتين المدينة كأنّها أسرار تعلنها الأرض للسماء. وكانت أشجار اللوز والتفاح قد اكتست بحلل بيضاء معطرة فبانت بين المنازل كأنّها حوريات بملابس ناصعة قد بعثت بهن الطبيعة عرائس وزوجات لأبناء الشعر والخيال." -Kahlil Gibran
"You who travel with the wind, what weather vane shall direct your course?" -Kahlil Gibran
"إذكروا أن ما يبدو لكم كما لو كان أضعف ما فيكم وأشده حيرة لهو في الواقع أقوى مافيكم وأصلبه عوداً .أليس أن نفسكم هو الذي شاد و شدد عظامكم؟أليس أن حلما لا يذكر أحد منكم أنه حلمه هو الذي بنى مدينتكم و كون كل مافيها ؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"أنا وأنتم أيّها النّاس مأخوذون بما بان من حالنا ، متعامون عمّا خفي من حقيقتنا" -Kahlil Gibran
"The most wonderful thing, Mary, is that you and I are always walking together, hand in hand, in a strangely beautiful world, unknown to other people. We both stretch one hand to receive from Life - and Life is generous indeed." -Kahlil Gibran
"What is word knowledge but a shadow of wordless knowledge?" -Kahlil Gibran
"Many a doctrine is like a window pane. We see truth through it but it divides us from truth." -Kahlil Gibran
"It is well to give when asked, but it is better to give unasked through understanding." -Kahlil Gibran
"ليس من الذكاء ان تنتصر في الجدال وانما من الذكاء ألا تدخل في الجدال اصلاً" -Kahlil Gibran
"ما أهْونني حين تهبني الحياة ذهبًا وأهبُك فضة، ثم أعدّ نفسي كريمًا." -Kahlil Gibran
"A truly religious man does not embrace a religion; and he who embraces one has no religion." -Kahlil Gibran
"لقد توارثت الأجيال الأمراض والعاهات النفسية بعضها عن بعض حتى أصبحت عمومية بل صارت من الصفات الملازمة للإنسان فلم يعد الناس ينظرون إليها كعاهات وأمراض بل يعتبرونها كخلال طبيعية نبيلة أنزلها الله على آدم فإذا ما ظهر بينهم فردٌ خالٍ منها ظنوه ناقصاً محروماً من الكمالات الروحية." -Kahlil Gibran
"إنّ الحياة تكون بالحقيقة ظلمةً حالكةً إذا لم ترافقها الحركةوالحركة تكون عمياءَ لا بركةَ فيها إنْ لم ترافقها المعرفةوالمعرفة تكون عميقةً سقيمةً إنْ لم يرافقها العمل" -Kahlil Gibran
"لابد للكشف عن الحق من اثنين : رجل يجهر به و آخر يفهمه" -Kahlil Gibran
"ليست قيمة الإنسان بما يبلغ إلية بل بما يتوق للبلوغ إلية" -Kahlil Gibran
"و لكن ما أغرب سكوت صغيرتي المحبوبة, ما أغرب سكوتها. ذلك السكوت الطويل كالأبدية العميق كأحلام الآلهة-ذلك السكوت الذي لا يترجم إلى أية لغة بشرية. ألا تذكرين أنه لما جاء دورك في الكتابة لم تكتبي؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"أن الطير فى السماء، والقمم التى تتوج الجبال، لا تلقى بالاً للأفاعى فى جحورها المظلمة. دع الموتى يدفنون موتاهم، وكن أنت بين الأحياء ، وحلق عالياً." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your fear of death is but the trembling of the shepherd when he stands before the king whose hand is to be laid upon him in honour." -Kahlil Gibran
"إذا حجب الظلام الأشجار والرياحين عن العين ، فالظلام لا يحجب الحب عن النفس ." -Kahlil Gibran
"Yesterday was a beautiful tune on the lips of life and today is a silent secret." -Kahlil Gibran
"أملي أن تكوني المرأة التي تهجع فيّّ أماً صغيرة *" -Kahlil Gibran
"And when you were a silent word upon Life's quivering lips, I too was there, another silent word. Then life uttered us and we came down the years throbbing with memories of yesterday and with longing for tomorrow, for yesterday was death conquered and tomorrow was birth pursued." -Kahlil Gibran
"هل هو الكلام الذي يحدث التفاهم بين الأرواح المتحابة؟ هل هي الأصوات والمقاطيع الخارجة من الشفاه والألسنة التي تقرب بين القلوب والعقول؟ أفلا يوجد شيء أسمى مما تلده الأفواه وأطهر مما تهتز به أوتار الحناجر؟ أليست هي السكينة التي تحمل شعاع النفس إلى النفس وتنقل همس القلب إلى القلب؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"تتغير الأشياء أمام أعيننا بتغيير عواطفنا، وهكذا نتوهم الأشياء متشحة بالسحر والجمال عندما لا يكون السحر والجمال إلا في نفوسنا" -Kahlil Gibran
"Much have we loved you. But speechless was our love, and with veils has it been veiled,Yet now it cries aloud unto you, and would stand revealed before you.And ever has it been that love knows not it's depth until the hour of separation" -Kahlil Gibran
"الجمال العظيم يأسرني, ولكن الجمال الأعظم يحررني من أسر ذاته" -Kahlil Gibran
"Remembrance is a form of meeting.Forgetfulness is a form of freedom." -Kahlil Gibran
"زرعت أوجاعي في حقل من التجلد فنبتت أفراحاً ." -Kahlil Gibran
"Life is not only merriment,It is desire and determination." -Kahlil Gibran
"تأكل مسرعا وتمشي متباطئًا،فهلاّ أكلت برجلك،ومشيت على كفيك" -Kahlil Gibran
"لكل روح فصول..., وشتاء الروح ليس كربيعها, ولا صيفها كخريفها.الشعلة الزرقاء - جبران" -Kahlil Gibran
"الحياة لا تعود القهقرى, ولا هي تتمهل عند الأمس" -Kahlil Gibran
"The wolves prey upon the lambs in the darkness of the night, but the blood stains remain upon the stones in the valley until the dawn comes, and the sun reveals the crime to all." -Kahlil Gibran
"الضمير قاض عادل ضعيف والضعف واقف في سبيل تنفيذ أحكامه" -Kahlil Gibran
"Forget not that the earth delights to feel your bare feet and the winds long to play with your hair.Out of suffering have emerged the strongest souls; the most massive characters are seared with scars.You give but little when you give of your possessions. It is when you give of yourself that you truly give.Let there be spaces in your togetherness.Yesterday is but today's memory, and tomorrow is today's dream.I have learnt silence from the talkative, toleration from the intolerant, and kindness from the unkind; yet strange, I am ungrateful to these teachers.Your children are not your children. They are the sons and daughters of Life's longing for itself.Ever has it been that love knows not its own depth until the hour of separation.Work is love made visible.If you cannot work with love but only with distaste, it is better that you should leave your work." -Kahlil Gibran
"خطاست اگر بیندیشیم ""عشق"" حاصل مصاحبت دراز مدت .و با هم بودنی مجدّانه است عشق ثمره ی ""خویشاوندی روحی"" است ،و اگر این خویشاوندی در لحظه تحقق نیابد .در طول سالیان و حتی نسل ها نیز تحقق نخواهد یافت" -Kahlil Gibran
"Shall the day of parting be the day of gathering?And shall it be said that my eve was in truth my dawn?" -Kahlil Gibran
"فإذا اشتغلت فما أنت سوى مزمار تختلج في قلبك مناجاة الأيام فتتحول إلى موسيقى خالدةومن منكم يود أن يكون قصبة خرساء صماء وجميع ما حولها يترنم معا بأنغام متفقة؟قد طالما أخبرتم أن العمل لعنة والشغل نكبة ومصيبةأما أنا فأقول لكم إنكم بالعمل تحققون جزءا من حلم الأرض البعيد جزءا خصص لكم عند ميلاد ذلك الحلمفإذا واظبتم على العمل النافع تفتحون قلوبكم بالحقيقة لمحبة الحياةلأن من أحب الحياة بالعمل النافع تقتح له الحياة أعماقها وتدنيه من أبعد أٍرارها" -Kahlil Gibran
"ما أجلَّ القلب المهموم حين يشارك القلوب المرحة أنشودة مرحة ." -Kahlil Gibran
"When you see a man led to prison say in your heart, ""Mayhap he is escaping from a narrower prison."" And when you see a man drunken say in your heart, ""Mayhap he sought escape from something still more unbeautiful." -Kahlil Gibran
"إنك محسنٌ حقاً حين تتزكى , وعندما تتزكى أدر وجهك عمن يتقبل عطاءك حتى لاتبصر حياءه عارياً  (F)" -Kahlil Gibran
"Yesterday is but today's memory, and tomorrow is today's dream." -Kahlil Gibran
"ذات يومٍ وقع نظري على وجه امرأة فشاهدت أطفالها جميعاً و ما وُلِدوا بعد .و رَنَت امرأة إلى وجهي ، فتعرفت أجدادي جميعاً و قد مضوا جميعاً قبل أن تولد ." -Kahlil Gibran
"Man struggles to find life outside himself, unaware that the life he is seeking is within him." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن الحب إذ يكلل هاماتكم , فكذلك يشدكم على الصليب" -Kahlil Gibran
"حينما تتوق إلى إلى نعمة لا تعرف لها اسماً، وحينما تحزن دونما تدري لذلك سبباً، فأنت في الحق تنمو مع كل ما ينمو ويرتفع إلى ذاتك الكبرى" -Kahlil Gibran
"الحماسة بركان ولا تنبت على قمته اعشاب التردد" -Kahlil Gibran
"يالحقارة مجابهة الرياح الأربعة برأس مكلل رفيع ." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن لم يجر بينكم التبادل بالحب والعدل، شرهت فيكم نفوس وجاعت أخرى." -Kahlil Gibran
"ويل لأمة تكره الشهوة في أحلامها، وتعنو لها في يقظتها" -Kahlil Gibran
"تتنفس الأرض فنولد ثم تسترجع أنفاسها فنموت" -Kahlil Gibran
"إن للطير شرفاً ليس للإنسان ، فالإنسان يعيش في ظلال شرائع وتقاليد ابتدعها لنفسه. أما الطيور فتحيا بحسب الناموس الكلي المطلق الذي يسير بالأرض حول الشمس" -Kahlil Gibran
"مـا أغربنـي عندما آشكـو آلماً فيه لذتـي" -Kahlil Gibran
"ما أجهل من يعطيك مما في جيبه عسى أن يأخذ مما في قلبك" -Kahlil Gibran
"Let not the waves of the sea separate us now, and the years you have spent in our midst become a memory." -Kahlil Gibran
"And I have found both freedom and safety in my madness; the freedom of loneliness and the safety from being understood, for those who understand us enslave something in us." -Kahlil Gibran
"الحب الذي لا يُضفي على نفسه جديداً كل يوم يستحيل عادة، ثم لا يلبث أن يكون رقاً" -Kahlil Gibran
"حاولت أن أفقد ذاتي بين صفحات الكتب لعلني أستأنس بأخيلة الذين طواهم الدهر ، وكم جربت أن أنسى حاضري لأعود بقراءة الأسفار إلى مسارح الأجيال الغابرة ، فلم يُجْدِني كل ذلك نفعًا ، بل كنت كمن يحاول إخماد النار بالزيت ، لأنني لم أكن أرى من مواكب الأجيال سوى أشباحها السوداء ، ولا أسمع من أنغام الأمم غير الندب والنواح ، فسفر أيوب كان عندي أجمل من مزامير داود ، ومراثي أرميا كان أحب لديّ من نشيد سليمان ، ونكبة البرامكة أشد وقعًا في نفسي من عظمة العباسيين ، وقصيدة ابن زريق أكثر تأثيرًا من رباعيات الخيام ، ورواية هملت أقرب إلى قلبي من كل ما كتبه الإفرنج . كذا يُضعف القنوط بصيرتنا ، فلا نرى غير أشباحنا الرهيبة ، وهكذا يصمّ اليأس آذاننا ، فلا نسمع غير طرقات قلوبنا المضطربة ." -Kahlil Gibran
"و لمّا فتحتُ قلبي لكَي أرى السعادةَ, وجَدتُ هُناكَ مرآتها, وسَريرَهَا, وملابِسَها لكنّني لم أجِدْهَا." -Kahlil Gibran
"قد تنسى الذي ضحكت معه ولكن لن تنسى الذي بكيت معه." -Kahlil Gibran
"فقال المصطفى : إنَّ قلوبكم في صمت ...تدرك أسرار الايام والليالي ...ولكن آذانكم تتعطش الى صوت المعرفة ينبعث من قلوبكم ...وكم تتمنون أن تعرفوا باللفظ ما عرفتموه دائماً بالفكر ...وأن تلمسوا بأصابعكم العُري في مجسدات أحلامكم ... ونِعْمَ ما تريدون ...فلا بدَّ أن يفيض الينبوع المحجوب في نفوسكم ... وأن ينطلق هامساً الى البحر ...وأن يتكشف لأبصاركم الكنز المنطوي في أغوار لا تنتهي في نفوسكم السرمدية ولكن حذار أن تزنوا بالموازين كنوزكم الخافية ... أو تدلو العصي أو الحبال لتسبروا أغوار معرفتكم فإن الذات بَحر لا يُحدُّ ولا يُقاس ...ولا تقل (( وجدتُ الحقيقة )) بل قل (( وجدتُ بعض الحقيقة )) ولا تقل (( أكتشفت سبيل الروح )) بل قُلْ (( وجدتُ الروح تسير في سبيلي )) ...فإن الروح تسير في جميع السُبل ... لا تسير في خط مرسوم ...ولا تنمو كما تنمو القصبة ...وإنما هي تتفتح كزهرة اللوتس ...أكمامها لا تحصى جبران خليل جبران - النبي" -Kahlil Gibran
"العمل حب تجسم للعيون. فإذا كنت تعمل كارها وحليفك النفور لا الحب ، فخير لك أن تهجر العمل ، فتقعد على باب المعبد تتلقى الصدقات ممن يعملون مبتهجين ، لأنك إذا خبزت العيش سادرا فأنت إذا تهيئ خبزا مرا ، لا يسد من جوع الإنسان إلا بعضه. وإذا أنت عصرت الكرم متبرما ، فسوف يتقاطر تبرمك في الخمر سما. وإذا شدوت ولو شدوا الملائكة دون أن تحب ما تشدو ، فأنت إذا تصد صوت النهار وصوت الليل عن آذان البشر ، بما تصبه فيها من وقر ." -Kahlil Gibran
"أنت رحوم إذا أعطيت , ولكن لا تنس وأنت تعطي , أن تدير وجهك عمن تعطيه , لكي لا ترى حياءه عارياً أمام عينيك" -Kahlil Gibran
"And let there be no purpose in friendship save the deepening of the spirit. For love that seeks aught but the disclosure of its own mystery is not love but a net cast forth: and only the unprofitable is caught." -Kahlil Gibran
"ما إن يعظُم فرحك أو شجنك حتى تمسي الدنيا صغيرة في عينيك" -Kahlil Gibran
"لا تحفظ الأبدية إلا المحبة لأنها مثلها" -Kahlil Gibran
"Art thou like me, child of my darkest heart? And dost thou think my untamed thoughts and speak my vast language?' 'Yea, we are twin brothers, O, Night; for thou revealest space and I reveal my soul." -Kahlil Gibran
"The sorrowful spirit finds relaxation in solitude." -Kahlil Gibran
"Then said a teacher, speak to us of teaching. And he said:The teacher who walks in the shadow of the temple among his followers gives not of his wisdom but rather of his faith and his lovingness.The astronomer may speak to you of his understanding of space, but he cannot give you his understanding.The musician may sing to you of the rhythm which is in all space, but he cannot give you the ear which arrests the rhythm nor the voice that echoes it.And he who is versed in the science of numbers can tell of the regions of weight and measure, but he cannot conduct you thither.For the vision of one man lends not its wings to another man." -Kahlil Gibran
"They dip their pens in our hearts and think they are inspired." -Kahlil Gibran
"بعض الأشياء تسقط وليس للجاذبية ذنب هى هكذا .. لا يليق بها الصعود" -Kahlil Gibran
"We are the seeds of the tenacious plant, and it is in our ripeness and our fullness of heart that we are given to the wind and are scattered." -Kahlil Gibran
"وكم مرة وضعت نبالة التضحية بجانب سعادة المتمردين لأرى أيهما أجلّ وأجمل؟ ولكنني للآن لم أفهم سوى حقيقة واحدة وهي: أن الإخلاص يجعل جميع الأعمال حسنة وشريفة." -Kahlil Gibran
"You may give them your love but not your thoughts,For they have their own thoughts.You may house their bodies but not their souls,For their souls dwell in the house of tomorrow, which you cannot visit, not even in your dreams.You may strive to be like them, but seek not to make them like you.For life goes not backwards nor tarries with yesterday." -Kahlil Gibran
"The resting place of my soul is a beautiful grove where my knowledge of you lives." -Kahlil Gibran
"الجمال الحقيقي هو أشعة تنبعث من قدس أقداس النفس وتنير خارج الجسد مثلما تنبثق الحياة من أعماق النواة وتُكسب الزهرة لونا وعطراً؛ هو تفاهم كلي يتم بلحظة، وبلحظة يولد ذلك الميل المترفع عن جميع الميول، ذلك الإنعطاف الروحي ندعوه حباً" -Kahlil Gibran
"المحبة لا تعطي إلا نفسها، ولا تأخذ إلا من نفسها.المحبة لا تملك شيئا، ولا تريد أن يملكها أحد، لأن المحبة مكتفية بالمحبة." -Kahlil Gibran
"كل شيء عظيم وجميل في هذا العالم يتولَّد من فكر واحد أو من حاسة واحدة في داخل الإنسان . كل ما نراه اليوم من أعمال الأجيال الغابرة كان قبل ظهوره فكرًا خفيًّا في عاقلة رجل أو عاطفة لطيفة في صدر امرأة … الثورات الهائلة التي أجرت الدماء كالسواقي وجعلت الحرية تُعبد كالآلهة كانت فكرًا خياليًّا مرتعشًا بين تلافيف دماغ رجل فرد عائش بين ألوف من الرجال . والحروب الموجعة التي ثَلَّت العروش وخربت الممالك كانت خاطرًا يتمايل في رأس رجل واحد . والتعاليم السامية التي غيرت مسير الحياة البشرية كانت ميلًا شعريًّا في نفس رجل واحد منفصل بنبوغه عن محيطه ؛ فِكر واحد أقام الأهرام ، وعاطفة واحدة خرّبت تروادة ، وخاطر واحد أوجد مجد الإسلام ، وكلمة واحدة أحرقت مكتبة الإسكندرية .فِكر واحد يجيئك في سكينة الليل يسير بك إلى المجد أو إلى الجنون . نظرة واحدة من أطراف أجفان امرأة تجعلك أسعد الناس أو أتعسهم ، كلمة واحدة تخرج من بين شفتي رجل تُصَيِّرك غنيًّا بعد الفقر أو فقيرًا بعد الغنى … كلمة واحدة لفظتها سلمى كرامة في تلك الليلة الهادئة أوقفتني بين ماضيَّ ومستقبلي وقوف سفينة بين لجة البحار وطبقات الفضاء . كلمة واحدة معنوية قد أيقظتني من سُبات الحداثة والخلوّ ، وسارت بأيامي على طريق جديدة إلى مسارح الحب حيث الحياة والموت ." -Kahlil Gibran
"كل ما هو مفطور فينا صامت، أما المكتسب فثرثار" -Kahlil Gibran
"إن السجين المظلوم الذى يستطيع أن يهدم جدران سجنه ولا يفعل يكون جباناً." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن ظمأ الرّوح أعظم من ارتواء المادة، وخوف النفس أحبّ من طمأنينة الجسد." -Kahlil Gibran
"أن النحلة تجد المتعة في جني العسل من الزهرة. لكن الزهرة أيضا تجد المتعة في أن تسلم النحل رحيقها. فالزهرة في عين النحلة ينبوع حياة ، والنحلة في عين الزهرة رسول حب. والنحلة والزهرة يجدان في الأخذ والعطاء حاجة ونشوة." -Kahlil Gibran
"In your winter you deny your spring," -Kahlil Gibran
"لا , لا أريد أن يفهمني بشري إذا كان فهمه إياي ضرياً من العبودية المعنوية . وما أكثر الذين يتوهمون أنهم يفهموننا لأنهم وجدوا في بعض مظاهرنا شيئاً شبيهاً بما اختبروه مرة في حياتهم . وليتهم يكتفون بادعائهم ادراك أسرارنا – تلك الأسرار التي نحن ذواتنا لا ندركها – ولكنهم يصموننا بعلامات وأرقام ثم يضعوننا على رف من رفوف أفكارهم واعتقاداتهم مثلما يفعل الصيدلي بقناني الأدوية والمساحيق !" -Kahlil Gibran
"When you kill a beast, say to him in your heart:~By the same power that slays you, I too am slain, and I too shall be consumed.~For the law that delivers you into my hand shall deliver me into a mightier hand.~Your blood and my blood is naught but the sap that feeds the tree of heaven." -Kahlil Gibran
"أعطني الناي و غن . . فالغنا نار و نورو أنين الناي شوق . . لا يدانيه الفتور‏" -Kahlil Gibran
"إن الحياة ظلامٌ إلاّ إذا صاحبها الحافز،وكل حافز ضرير إلاّ إذا اقترن بالمعرفة،وكل معرفة هَباء، إلاّ إذا رافقها العمل،وكل عمل خَواء، إلا إذا امتزج بالحبَّ؛فإذا امتزج عملُك بالحب فقد وصلتَ نَفسَك بنفسك، وبالناس وبالله." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن كان هناك من يريد أن يشاهدني راقصا ويسمعنى متطبلا و مزمرا فعليه أن يدعوني إلى بيت العريس لا أن يوقفني بين المقابر." -Kahlil Gibran
"Even as the strings of a lute are alone though they quiver with the same music." -Kahlil Gibran
"بالعلم تدرك مصر الحرية العصماءوتستعيد الفخار القديم والعلياءوتسترد من الدهر عزها والرخاءشبابها صفوة النشء فطنة وذكاءإن ثقفوا بهروا الخلق همة ومضاءهم المخايل في أوجه العلى تتراءى" -Kahlil Gibran
"الأشجار أشعارٌ تكتبها الأرض في السَّماء. نحن نقطعها ونُحيلُها ورقاً نضمِّنه حماقتنا." -Kahlil Gibran
"أنت انسان ..وُلِدت كي تعيش الحياةوليس كي تعيش... نصف حياة" -Kahlil Gibran
"I came here to be for all and with all,and what I do today in my solitudewill be echoed tomorrow by the multitude. What I say now with one heartwill be said tomorrow by thousands of hearts..." -Kahlil Gibran
"For the vision of one man lends not its wings to another man." -Kahlil Gibran
"أنا اللهب، وأنا الهشيم اليابس وإن بعضي ليأكل بعضي." -Kahlil Gibran
"رأيت عينيه ما زالتا تتبعانني بتلك النظرة الغريبة-تلك النظرة التي لم أفهم معانيها حتى عتقت نفسي من عالم المقاييس والكمية وطارت إلى مسارح الملأ الأعلى حيث تتفاهم القلوب بالنظرات وتنمو الأرواح بالتفاهم" -Kahlil Gibran
"ما عسى أن يصير إليه العالم بعد أن تنتهي الجبابرة من صراعها؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"ما أكثر ما تمتلئ البئر التي تستقون منها ضحكاتكم بفيض دموعكم" -Kahlil Gibran
"،صديقُك هو حاجَةٌ لك قُضيت،و هو حقْلك تُلقي فيه البذور في حُبٍ، و تجني منه الثّمار في شُكرو هو مائدة طعامك و مدْفأتك؛.لأنك تسعى إليه بجوعك، وتَنشُد عنده الطُّمأنينةو حين يُفضي إليك صديقُك بما يدور في نفسه لا تخشى أن تُصرِّح ""له بـ ""لا""، وأن تَضن عليه بـ ""نعم.،فإذا أمسك عن الكلام، ظلَّ قلبك يُصغي إلى حديث قلبهففي الصداقة تنبعث الأفكار و الرَّغبات و الأماني جميعاً في صمت، .و تُشاركُ فيها النُّفوس في بهجة مُضْمَرة" -Kahlil Gibran
"الحياة أقدم من جميع الكائنات الحية، حتى الجمال تجنح قبل ان يولد الجميل على الأرض، والحقيقة منذ كانت حقيقة عرفت ووجد من تفوه بها" -Kahlil Gibran
"The wind speaks not more sweetly to the giant Oaks than to the least of all blades of grass, And he alone is great who turns the voice of the wind into a song made sweeter by his own loving" -Kahlil Gibran
"إن المرأة من الأمة بمنزلة الشعاع من السراج ، وهل يكون شعاع السراج ضئيلاً إذا لم يكن زيته شحيحاً؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"بعضنا كالحبر وبعضنا مالورق. فلولا سواد بعضنا لكان البياض أصم. ولولا بياض بعضنا لكان السواد أعمى. .." -Kahlil Gibran
"نظرت تلك الساعة نحو الطبيعة الراقدة وتأملت ملياً فوجدت فيها شيئاً لا حد له ولا نهاية . شيئاً لايشترى بالمال .وجدت شيئاً لا تمحوه دموع الخريف ولا يميته حزن الشتاء . شيئاً لا توجده بحيرات سويسرا ولا منتزهات إيطاليا .وجدت شيئاً يتجلد فيحيا في الربيع ويثمر في الصيف وجدت فيها المحبة." -Kahlil Gibran
"لا تعتاد الصراخ أبدا فمن يفهمكيسمع صمتك جيدا" -Kahlil Gibran
"نسكن .. وغناء الحياة لا ينقطع .. ونغفو وأحلامها لا تزال موصولة .. وحتى حين نمسي مقهورين متطامنين .. تظل الحياة متربّعة على عرشها عزيزة .. وحين نبكي .. تظل الحياة باسمة غير عابسة .. وحين نرسف في الأغلال .. تظل الحياة حرّة .. طليقة ..وما أكثر ما ننعي على الحياة وندعوها بلاذع الأسماء .. ولكننا لا نفعل إلا حين نحس في نفوسنا لذعاً وإظلاماً .. ونحن نرمي الحياة بأنها خاوية لا غناء فيها .. لكننا لا نفعل إلا حين تهيم النفس في آفاق موحشة .. ويترنح القلب مثقلاً بشواغل النفس" -Kahlil Gibran
"إذا كان الحب لا يرجعك إلي في هذه الحياة فالحب يضمني إليك في الحياة الآتية." -Kahlil Gibran
"If we were all to sit in a circle and confess our sins, we would laugh at each other for lack of originality. —Kahlil Gibran" -Kahlil Gibran
"لا تدعوا كاهناً إلى جانب فراشي لأن تعازيمه لا تكفر عن ذنوبي إن كنت خاطئاً، ولا تسرع بي إلى الجنة إن كنت باراً. إن إرادة البشر لا تغير مشيئة الله كما أن المنجمين لا يحولون مسار النجوم. أما بعد موتي فليفعل الأطباء والكهان ما شاؤوا، فاللجة تنادي اللجّة أما السفينة فتظل سائرة حتى تبلغ الساحل" -Kahlil Gibran
"Too many fragments of the spirit have I scattered in these streets, and too many are the children of my longing that walk naked among these hills, and I cannot withdraw from them without a burden and an ache." -Kahlil Gibran
"Even as the stone of the fruit must break, that its heart may stand in the sun, so must you know pain." -Kahlil Gibran
"A Tear And A Smile - I would not exchange the sorrows of my heart For the joys of the multitude.And I would not have the tears that sadness makes To flow from my every part turn into laughter. I would that my life remain a tear and a smile.A tear to purify my heart and give me understandingOf life's secrets and hidden things. A smile to draw me nigh to the sons of my kind and To be a symbol of my glorification of the gods.A tear to unite me with those of broken heart; A smile to be a sign of my joy in existence.I would rather that I died in yearning and longing than that I live Weary and despairing.I want the hunger for love and beauty to be in the Depths of my spirit,for I have seen those who are Satisfied the most wretched of people. I have heard the sigh of those in yearning and Longing, and it is sweeter than the sweetest melody.With evening's coming the flower folds her petals And sleeps, embracingher longing. At morning's approach she opens her lips to meet The sun's kiss.The life of a flower is longing and fulfilment.A tear and a smile.The waters of the sea become vapor and rise and come Together and area cloud.And the cloud floats above the hills and valleys Until it meets the gentle breeze, then falls weeping To the fields and joins with brooks and rivers to Return to the sea, its home.The life of clouds is a parting and a meeting. A tear and a smile.And so does the spirit become separated from The greater spirit to move in the world of matter And pass as a cloud over the mountain of sorrow And the plains of joy to meet the breeze of death And return whence it came.To the ocean of Love and Beauty----to God." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن الأمم المسنة التي لا تكتسب مما تثمره الأمم الحديثة تموت ادبياً وتنقرض معنوياً." -Kahlil Gibran
"ترى هل يكون يوم الفراق هو نفسه يوم التلاق؟وهل يُقال إن ساعة غروبي كانت في الحق ساعة مطلعي؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"memory is an autumn leaf that murmurs a while in the wind and then is heard no more." -Kahlil Gibran
"For what is prayer but the expansion of your self into the living ether?" -Kahlil Gibran
"لن يسعك أن تحكم على الآخرين إلا بما تُمليه عليك معرفتك لذاتك. والآن خبّرني: أيُّنا البرىء وأيُّنا المذنب؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"You are blind and I am deaf and dumb, so let us touch hands and understand." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن الذين يناولونك حية حين تسألهم سمكة قد لا يملكون غير الحيّات ليقدموها. فهو إذن من جانبهم سخاء" -Kahlil Gibran
"عين الإنسان مجهر تبين له الدنيا أكبر مما هي عليه حقيقة" -Kahlil Gibran
"إن العواصف و الثلوج تفني الزهور و لكنها لا تقتل البذور" -Kahlil Gibran
"If a man loses a dear friend, he looks around and sees many friends come to console and comfort him. If a man loses his wealth, after a little thought he will realize that the delight that came from wealth will be restored by finding more. Thus he forgets his loss and is consoled. But if a man's heart is deprived of peace, where will he find it again, how will he replace it?" -Kahlil Gibran
"و للرصد فى سكينة الليل وقع فى المشاعر يحاكى تأثير كلمات رسالة جاءت من عزيز غال انقطعت اخباره من بلاد بعيدة فجاء الكتاب يحيى عاطفة الأمل و يعد النفس باللقاء. و كأن بمغن الرصد يخبر بقرب الفجر و اندحار الظلام." -Kahlil Gibran
"فإذا كنت تعمل كارهًا وحليفك النفور لا الحب, فخير لك أن تترك العمل , فتقعد على باب المعبد تتلقى الصدقات ممن يعملون مبتهجينلأنك إن خبزت العيش سادرًا فأنت إذًا تهيئ خبزًا مرًا, لا يسد من جوع الانسان إلا بعضه.وإذا أنت عصرت الكرم متبرما, فسوف يتساقط تبرمك في الخمر سمًا" -Kahlil Gibran
"ينبغي أن نضحى بعلاقة جسدية سقيمة لكي تبقى لنا دائماً صداقة وطيدة.(مارى هاسكل)" -Kahlil Gibran
"ما أكرمك أيتها الأرض و ما أطول أناتك.ما أشد حنانك على أبنائك المنصرفين عن حقيقتهم إلى أوهامهم, الضائعين بين ما بلغوا إليه وماقصروا عنه.نحن نضج وأنت تضحكين !نحن نذنب وأنت تكفرين !نحن نجذف وأنت تباركين !نحن ننجس وأنت تقدسين !" -Kahlil Gibran
"One may not reach the dawn by the path of the night. " -Kahlil Gibran
"من لا يشاهد الملائكة والشياطين في محاسن الحياة ومكروهاتها يظل قلبه بعيداً عن المعرفة ونفسه فارغة من العواطف" -Kahlil Gibran
"But you who walk facing the sun, what images drawn on the earth can hold you?" -Kahlil Gibran
"ربنا إنا لا نسألك شيئا ؛ فإنك تعرف حاجتنا قبل أن تولد فينا ، ولأنت حاجتنا ، ولإن زدتنا عطاء من ذاتك ، فقد أعطيتنا كل شئ" -Kahlil Gibran
"THE ROBINO Robin, sing! for the secret of eternity is in song.I wish I were as you, free from prisons and chains.I wish I were as you; a soul flying over the valleys,Sipping the light as wine is sipped from ethereal cups.I wish I were asyou, innocent, contented and happyIgnoring the future and forgetting the past.I wish I were as you in beauty, grace and eleganceWith the wind spreading my wings for adornment by the dew.I wish I were as you in beauty, a thought floating above the landPouring out my songs between the forest and the sky.O Robin, sing! and disperse my anxiety.I listen to the voice within your voicethat whispers in my inner ear;" -Kahlil Gibran
"لك يا مي أن تتيهي كما شئت ولكن ترفعي في الدلالما الذي تحمل القلوب وقد زدت بسحر الغناء سحر الجمال" -Kahlil Gibran
"حين يغمرك` الحزن .. تأمل قلبك` من جديد .. فسترى أنك` في الحقيقة تبكي ممآ كان يومآ مصدر بهجتك" -Kahlil Gibran
"He who has not been bitten by the serpents of light and snapped at by the wolves of darkness will always be deceived by the days and the nights." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن أدران الجسد لا تلامس النفس النقية، والثلوج المتراكمة لا تُميت البذور الحية، وما هذه الحياة سوى بيدر أحزان تٌدرَس عليه أغمار النفوس قبل أن تعطى غلّتها، ولكن ويل للسنابل المتروكة خارج البيدر، لأن نمل الأرض يحملها وطيور السماء تلتقطها، فلا تدخل أهراء رب الحقل." -Kahlil Gibran
"ههنا الاستبداد القاسي. و هناك الخضوع الأعمى. فأيهما كان مولداً للآخر؟ هل الاستبداد شجرة قوية لا تنبت في غير التربة المنخفضة أم هو الخضوع حقل مهجور لا تعيش فيه غير الأشواك؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"A seeker of silences am I, and what treasure have I found in silences that I may dispense with confidence?" -Kahlil Gibran
"أَهَهناتُفرقنا سبل الحياة لتذهب بك إلى أمجاد الرجل وتسير بي إلى واجبات المرأة؟ أهكذا ينقضيالحلم الجميل وتندثر الحقيقة العذبة؟ أهكذا تبتلع اللُّجّة نغمة الشحرور وتنثر الرياحأوراق الوردة وتسحق الأقدام كأس الخمر؟ أباطلًا أوقفتنا تلك الليلة أمام وجه القمروباطلًا ضَمّنا الروح في ظلال هذه الياسمينة؟ هل تسرَّعنا بالصعود نحو الكواكب فكلّتأجنحتنا وهبطت بنا إلى الهاوية؟ هل فاجأنا الحب نائمًا فاستيقظ غاضبًا ليعاقبنا؟ أمهيجت أنفاسنا نسمات الليل فانقلبت ريحًا شديدة لتمزِّقنا وتجرفنا كالغبار إلى أعماقالوادي؟ لم نخالف وصية ولم نذُق ثمرًا، فكيف نخرج من هذه الجنة؟! لم نتآمر ولمنتمرّد، فلماذا نهبط إلى الجحيم؟! لا لا وألف لا ولا. إن الدقائق التي جمعتنا هي أعظم منالأجيال، والشعاع الذي أنار نفسينا هو أقوى من الظلام، فإن فرقتنا العاصفة على وجههذا البحر الغضوب فالأمواج تجمعنا على ذلك الشاطئ الهادئ، وإن قتلتنا هذه الحياةفذاك الموت يحيينا." -Kahlil Gibran
"اشفق يارب وشدد جميع الاجنحة المتكسرة" -Kahlil Gibran
"Is not the cup that holds your wine the very cup that was burned in the potter's oven?" -Kahlil Gibran
"المسكنة نقاب يخفي ملامح الكبرياء" -Kahlil Gibran
"إن دمعة واحدة تتلمع على وجنة شيخ متجعدة لهي أشد تأثيرًا في النفس من كل ما تهرقه أجفان الفتيان . إن دموع الشباب الغزيرة هي مما يفيض من جوانب القلوب المترعة ، أما دموع الشيوخ ، فهي من فضلات العمر تنسكب من الأحداق ، هي بقية الحياة في الأجساد الواهنة . الدموع في أجفان الشبيبة كقطرات الندى على أوراق الوردة ، أما الدموع على وجنة الشيخوخة فأشبه بأوراق الخريف المصفرة التي تنثرها الرياح وتذريها عندما يقترب شتاء الحياة ." -Kahlil Gibran
"In the stillness of the night I have walked in your streets, and my spirit has entered your houses,And your heart-beats were in my heart, and your breath was upon my face, and I knew you all.Aye, I knew your joy and your pain, and in your sleep your dreams were my dreams.And oftentimes I was among you a lake among the mountains.I mirrored the summits in you and the bending slopes, and even the passing flocks of your thoughts and your desires.And to my silence came the laughter of your children in streams, and the longing of your youths in rivers." -Kahlil Gibran
"Sing and dance together and be joyous, but let each one of you be alone.Even as the strings of a lute are alone though they quiver with the same music." -Kahlil Gibran
"ketika cinta memanggilmu, maka dekatilah ia walau jalannya terjal berliku. ketika cinta memelukmu, maka dakapilah ia walau pedang di sela-sela sayapnya melukaimu." -Kahlil Gibran
"وهل تكلمت اليوم في موضوع آخر غير الدين ؟أليس الدين كل ما في الحياة من الأعمال والتأملات ؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"And how shall you punish those whose remorse is already greater than their misdeeds?" -Kahlil Gibran
"Call me not wise unless you call all men wise. A young fruit am I, still clinging to the branch and it was only yesterday that I was a blossom. And call none among you foolish for we are neither wise nor foolish. We are green leaves upon the tree of life and surely life itself if beyond wisdom and surely beyond foolishness." -Kahlil Gibran
"اذا جاءت كلماتي هذه غامضه على افهمامكم فلا تسعو وراء ايضاحها. فـإن الغموض و السدين بدايه كل شيئ لا نهايته. و اني بملء الرغبه اود ان تذكروني كبدايه" -Kahlil Gibran
"اللوعة إذا عظمت تصير خرساء" -Kahlil Gibran
"لن يكشف حقيقتَكَ إلا حزنٌ عميق أو فرحٌ كبير." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن القلب بعواطفه المتشعبة يماثل الأرزة بأغصانها المتفرقة، فإذا ما فقدت شجرة الأرز غصناً قوياً تتألم ولكنها لا تموت بل تحول قواها الحيوية إلى الغصن المجاور لينمو ويتعالى ويملأ بفروعه الغضة مكان الغصن المقطوع"" هذا ما قالته والدتك يا سلمى عندما مات أبوها، وهذا ما يجب عليك أن تقوليه عندما يأخذ الموت جسدي إلى راحة القبر، وروحي إلى ظل الله." -Kahlil Gibran
"Where shall you seek beauty, and how shall you find her unless she herself be your way and your guide?And how shall you speak of her except she be the weaver of your speech?The aggrieved and the injured say, ""Beauty is kind and gentle.Like a young mother half-shy of her own glory she walks among us.""And the passionate say, ""Nay, beauty is a thing of might and dread.Like the tempest she shakes the earth beneath us and the sky above us.""The tired and the weary say, ""Beauty is of soft whisperings. She speaks in our spirit.Her voice yields to our silences like a faint light that quivers in fear of the shadow.""But the restless say, ""We have heard her shouting among the mountains,And with her cries came the sound of hoofs, and the beating of wings and the roaring of lions.""At night the watchmen of the city say, ""Beauty shall rise with the dawn from the east.""And at noontide the toilers and the wayfarers say,""We have seen her leaning over the earth from the windows of the sunset.""In winter say the snow-bound, ""She shall come with the spring leaping upon the hills."" And in the summer heat the reapers say, ""We have seen her dancing with the autumn leaves, and we saw a drift of snow in her hair.""All these things have you said of beauty, Yet in truth you spoke not of her but of needs unsatisfied,And beauty is not a need but an ecstasy. It is not a mouth thirsting nor an empty hand stretched forth,But rather a heart enflamed and a soul enchanted.It is not the image you would see nor the song you would hear,But rather an image you see though you close your eyes and a song you hear though you shut your ears.It is not the sap within the furrowed bark, nor a wing attached to a claw,But rather a garden for ever in bloom and a flock of angels for ever in flight.People of Orphalese, beauty is life when life unveils her holy face.But you are life and you are the veil.Beauty is eternity gazing at itself in a mirror.But you are eternity and you are the mirror." -Kahlil Gibran
"وكلما وقفت أمام المراه أرى فى وجهى مالا تشعر به نفسى وأجد فى عينى مالا تكنه أعماقى !" -Kahlil Gibran
"أن الشيوخ يرجعون بالفكر إلى إيام شبابهم رجوع الغريب المشتاق إلى مسقط رأسه، ويميلون إلى سرد حكايات الصبا ميل الشاعر إلى تنغيم أبلغ قصائدة، فهم يعيشون بالروح في زوايا الماضي الغابر الان الحاضر يمر بهم و لا يلتفت و المستقبل يبدو لأعينهم متشحاً بضباب الزوال و ظلمة القبر" -Kahlil Gibran
"تأثيرات قلب حبيبتي , رأيتها بعين سمعي فشغلتني عن جوهر حديثها بجواهر عواطفها المتجسمة لموسيقى هي صوت النفس" -Kahlil Gibran
"ليس حزن النفس إلا ......... ظلُّ وهمٍ لا يدومْوغيوم النفس تبدو ........... من ثناياها النجومْأعطني الناي وغنِّ ........... فالغنا يمحو المحنْوأنين الناي يبقى ............. بعد أن يفنى الزمنْ" -Kahlil Gibran
"ففي الآونة الأخيرة قد تحقق لي وجود رابطة معنوية دقيقة قوية غريبة تختلف بطبيعتها و مزاياها و تأثيرها عن كل رابطة أخرى, فهي أشد و أصلب و أبقى بما لا يقاس من الروابط الدموية و الجنينية حتى و الأخلاقية." -Kahlil Gibran
"منذ ابتداء الدهر إلى أيامنا هذه والفئة المتمسكة بالشرف الموروث تتحالف وتتفق مع الكهان ورؤساء الأديان على الشعب . هي علة مزمنة قابضة بأظافرها على عنق الجامعة البشرية ولن تزول إلا بزوال الغباوة من هذا العالم عندما يصير عقل كل رجل ملكا ويصبح قلب كل امرأة كاهناً" -Kahlil Gibran
"الشعور العميق غير المتناهي يفقد شيئًا من خاصته المعنوية عندما يتجسَّم بالألفاظ المحدودة." -Kahlil Gibran
".والدموع التي تذرفها ،أيها الحزين ،هي أعذب من ضحك المتناسي و احلى من قهقهة المستهزئ .تلك دموع تغسل القلب من أدران البغض و تعلم ذارفها كيف يشارك منكسري القلب بشواعره ،هي دموع الناصري" -Kahlil Gibran
".. غريب أنك تقصر شفقتك على بطيء القدمين دون بطيء الفكر .. وأعمى العينين دون أعمى القلب" -Kahlil Gibran
"كتبت على بابي : دع نفاقك خارجا وادخل فلم يزرني احد" -Kahlil Gibran
"Imagination sees the complete reality, - it is where past, present and future meet... Imagination is limited neither to the reality which is apparent - nor to one place. It lives everywhere. It is at a centre and feels the vibrations of all the circles within which east and west are virtually included. Imagination is the life of mental freedom. It realizes what everything is in its many aspects ... Imagination does not uplift: we don't want to be uplifted, we want to be more completely aware." -Kahlil Gibran
"The mountain veiled in mist is not a hill; an oak tree in the rain is not a weeping willow." -Kahlil Gibran
"Some of our children are our justifications and some are but our regrets." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن المجرم لايحاكمه المجرمون والكافر الشرير لايدافع عن نفسه أمام الخطاة" -Kahlil Gibran
"يا نفس.يا نفس ...أيتها السفينة المرساة المثقلة بالرغبات ,أنى لك الريح لتنشر شراعك, وأي مد عال سيوجه دفتك ؟فما أن ترفع مرساتك حتى ينبسط جناحاكعلى أن السموات من فوقك ساكنه,والبحر الساكن من سكونك ساخر.أي أمل هنالك بقى لي أو لك ؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"Yesterday is but to-day's memory and to-morrow is to-day's dream." -Kahlil Gibran
"زنی که کودکی در آغوش داشت گفت : با ما از فرزندان سخن بگوو او گفت : فرزندان شما ، فرزندان شما نیستند .آن ها پسران و دختران خواهشی هستند که زندگی به خویش دارد .آن ها به واسطه ی شما می آیند ، اما نه از شما ، وبا آن که با شما هستند ، از آن شما نیستند .شما میتوانید مهر خود را به آن ها بدهید ، اما نه اندیشه های خود را ، زیرا که آن ها اندیشه های خود را دارند . شما می توانید تن آن ها را در خانه نگاه دارید ، اما نه روحشان را . زیرا که روح آن ها در خانه ی فرداست ، که شما را به آن راه نیست ، حتی در خواب . شما می توانید بکوشید تا مانند آن ها باشید ، اما مکوشید تا آن ها را مانند خود سازید .زیرا که زندگی واپس نمی رود و در بند دیروز نمی ماند ." -Kahlil Gibran
"في "" فضيلة الاعتدال "" ردّ عليهم قائلا "" هل يستطيع هؤلاء المخاليق ادراك حقيقة الأمور وهم محدقون بأواسطها أفليس للأمور رؤوس وأذناب.. أحب الذين احرقوا ورجموا وشنقوا وقضوا من أجل فكرة امتلكت عقولهم أو عاطفة اشعلت قلوبهم" -Kahlil Gibran
"Life without love is like a tree without blossoms or fruit" -Kahlil Gibran
"يا نفس ,يا من لا أليف لها ,في جوعك تنهشين ذاتك ,وبدموعك تودين لو رويت غلتك ,فإن الليل لا يجمع قطرات نداه في كأسك, والنهار لا يحمل إليك ثماره" -Kahlil Gibran
"And there are those who have little and give it all." -Kahlil Gibran
"For if you should enter the temple for no other purpose than asking you shall not receive:" -Kahlil Gibran
"When love beckons to you follow him, though his ways are hard and steep. And when his wings enfold you yield to him thought the sword hidden among his pinions may wound you. And when he speaks to you believe in him, though his voice may shatter your dreams" -Kahlil Gibran
"النفس يا مرتا هى حلقة ذهبية مفروطة من سلسلة الألوهية، فقد تصهر النار الحامية هذه الحلقة وتُغيّر صورتها وتمحو جمال استدارتها، لكنها لا تُحيل ذهبها إلى مادة أخرى، بل تزيده لمعاناً." -Kahlil Gibran
"He is your field which you sow with love and reap with thanksgiving." -Kahlil Gibran
"There are those among you who seek the talkative through fear of being alone.The silence of aloneness reveals to their eyes their naked selves and they would escape.And there are those who talk, and without knowledge or forethought reveal a truth which they themselves do not understand.And there are those who have the truth within them, but they tell it not in words.In the bosom of such as these the spirit dwells in rhythmic silence." -Kahlil Gibran
"أنت صالح بطرق عديدة ، يا صاح ، وإذا لم تكن صالحاً فإنك لست بالشرير" -Kahlil Gibran
"بالأمس القريب خلتُني شَظيّة ترتعد نافرةَ في فَلك الحياة.والآن أعلمُ أنني أنا الفلك، تَجري فيَّ الحياة كلها شظايا متّسقة.يقولون لي في يقَظتهم: ما أنت والكون الذي يضمُّك إلا حبّة من رمل، على ساحل لا يتناهى لبحر لا يتناهى.وفي حُلمي أقول لهم: إنني أنا البحرُ لا نهاية له، وليست العوالم كلها غير حبّات من رمل على ساحلي." -Kahlil Gibran
"انا جاهل بالحق المطلق ، غير أنني أشعر بالضّعة أمام جهلي ، و في هذا موضع فخري و جزائي ." -Kahlil Gibran
"لو أننا قنعت بكل ما تعرفه أنت، فأي مكان يبقى لكل ما لاتعرفه؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"At ebb tide I wrote a line upon the sand, and gave it all my heart and all my soul. At flood tide I returned to read what I had inscribed and found my ignorance upon the shore." -Kahlil Gibran
"أما تلك الكآبةالّتي اتبعت أيام حداثتي فلم تكن ناتجة عن حاجتي إلى الملاهي لأنّها كانتمتوّفرة لديّ ولاعن افتقاري إلى الرفاق لأنني كنت أجدهم أينما ذهبت بل هي من أعراضعلّة طبيعيةفي النفس كانت تحبب إليّ الوحدة والانفراد وتميت في روحي الميول إلى الملاهيوالألعاب وتخلع عن كتفي أجنحةالصبا وتجعلني أمام الوجود كحوض مياه بين الجباليعكس بهدوئه المحزن رسوم الأشباح وألوان الغيوم وخطوط الأغصان ولكنّه لا يجد ممرًايسيرفيه جدولً امترنمًاإلى البحر." -Kahlil Gibran
"And that the corner-stone of the temple is not higher than the lowest stone in its foundation." -Kahlil Gibran
"المَال كالحب يُميت من يضن به ويُحيي واهبه." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن القلوب العظيمة، لا يمنعها حزنها من أن تغرد مع القلوب الفرحة السعيدة" -Kahlil Gibran
"Let us disperse from our aloofness and serve the weak who made us strong, and cleanse the country in which we live. Let us teach this miserable nation to smile and rejoice with heaven's bounty and glory of life and freedom. " -Kahlil Gibran
"Follow your heart. Your heart is the right guide in everything big" -Kahlil Gibran
"إنْ أدَرْتَ ظَهْرَكَ إلى الشَّمس، لنْ ترى سوى ظلِّك." -Kahlil Gibran
"Words are too poor and too scant to express the inmost feeling in the heart of man." -Kahlil Gibran
"Life is but a sleep disturbed by dreaming, prompted by the will; the saddened soul with sadness hides it's secrets, and the gay, with thrill." -Kahlil Gibran
"It takes two of us to discover truth: one to utter it and one to understand it." -Kahlil Gibran
"في الآونة الأخيرة قد تحقق لي وجود رابطة معنوية دقيقة قوية غريبة تختلف بطبيعتهاومزاياها وتأثيرها عن كلّ رابطة أخرى، فهي أشدّ وأصلب وأبقى بما لا يقاس من الروابطالدموية والجينية حتّى والأخلاقية. وليس بين خيوط هذه الرابطة خيط واحد من غزلالأيّام والليالي الّتي تمر بين المهد واللحد. وليس بين خيوطها خيط غزلته مقاصد الماضيأو رغائب الحاضر أو أماني المستقبل، فقد تكون موجودة بين اثنين لم يجمعهما الماضي ولايجمعهما الحاضر وقد لا يجمعهما المستقبل." -Kahlil Gibran
"When love beckons to you, follow him,Though his ways are hard and steep. And when his wings enfold you yield to him,Though the sword hidden among his pinions may wound you. And when he speaks to you believe in him,Though his voice may shatter your dreams as the north wind lays waste the garden." -Kahlil Gibran
"And there are those who give and know not pain in giving, nor do they seek joy, nor give with mindfulness of virtue;" -Kahlil Gibran
"When you love you should not say, ""God is in my heart,"" but rather, ""I am in the heart of God""." -Kahlil Gibran
"Knowledge of the self is the mother of all knowledge. So it is incumbent on me to know my self, to know it completely, to know its minutiae, its characteristics, its subtleties, and its very atoms." -Kahlil Gibran
"Am I a harp that the hand of the mighty may touch me, or a flute that his breath may pass through me?" -Kahlil Gibran
"كيف افقد إيماني بعدل الحياة، وأحلام الراقدين على الفراش ليست أجمل من أحلام الذين يفترشون الغبراء ؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"There is a desire deep within the soul which drives man from the seen to the unseen, to philosophy and to the divine." -Kahlil Gibran
"March on. Do not tarry. To go forward is to move toward perfection. March on, and fear not the thorns, or the sharp stones on life's path." -Kahlil Gibran
"إذا أحببت فلا تقل وسع قلبي الله بل قُل:وسعًني قلب الله" -Kahlil Gibran
"أواه! لقد تضعضعت أحلامى يا عشتروت المقدسة وذابت حشاشتى ومات قلبى فى داخلى والتهبت دموعى فى عينى، فأحيينى بالرأفة وأبقى لى حبيبتى." -Kahlil Gibran
"But you, children of space, you restless in rest, you shall not be trapped nor tamed.Your house shall be not an anchor but a mast.It shall not be a glistening film that covers a wound, but an eyelid that guards the eye.You shall not fold your wings that you may pass through doors, nor bend your heads that they strike not against a ceiling, nor fear to breathe lest walls should crack and fall down.You shall not dwell in tombs made by the dead for the living.And though of magnificence and splendour, your house shall not hold your secret nor shelter your longing.For that which is boundless in you abides in the mansion of the sky, whose door is the morning mist, and whose windows are the songs and the silences of night." -Kahlil Gibran
"الحــــــب : تجربة إنسانية معقدة وهو أخطر وأهم حدث يمر في حياة الإنسان لأنه يمس صميم شخصيته وجوهره ووجوده فيجعله يشعر وكأنه ولد من جديد" -Kahlil Gibran
"And the selfsame well from which your laughter rises was oftentimes filled with your tears." -Kahlil Gibran
"اما من به شــما می گـویم که این دو [شـادی و اندوه] از یکـدیگـر جــدا نیسـتنداین دو با هـم می آینـد ، و هـر گاه که شـما با یکی از آن ها بر ســرِ سـفـره می نشـینیـد ، به یاد داشـته باشـیدکه آن دیگری در بسـترِ شـما ...خـفـتـه اسـت" -Kahlil Gibran
"Progress lies not in enhancing what is, but in advancing toward what will be." -Kahlil Gibran
"إذا أبصرتَ رجلاً يقاد الى السجن فناجِ نفسك لعله قد خلص من سجن اكثر ضيقا , وإذا أبصرت رجلاً مخمورا فقل في نفسك عساه يرى النجاة بها من حال أشد قُبحاً" -Kahlil Gibran
"أو لست أنت أيضاً غريبة عن هذا العالم ؟ ألست بالحقيقة غريبة عن محيطك وعن كل ما في محيطك من الأغراض والمنازع والمآتي والمرامي ؟ أخبريني , أخبريني يا مي هل في هذا العالم كثيرون يفهمون لغة نفسك ؟ كم مرة يا ترى لقيتِ من يسمعك وأنت ساكتة ويفهمك وأنت ساكتة ويطوف معك في قدس أقداس الحياة وأنت جالسة قبالته في منزل بين المنازل ؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"كل ما يفعله الإنسان سرًّا في ظلمة الليل يظهره الإنسان علنًا في نور النهار . الكلمات التي تهمسها شفاهنا في السكينة تصير على غير معرفة منا حديثًا عموميًّا ، والأعمال التي نحاول اليوم إخفاءها في زاويا المنازل تتجسّم غدًا ، وتنتصب في منعطفات الشوارع ." -Kahlil Gibran
"الحياة بغير تمرد كالفصول بغير ربيع والتمرد بغير حق كالربيع فى الصحراء القاحلة الجرداء" -Kahlil Gibran
"Sen ve ben Hayata hep yaban kalacağız. Birimiz diğerine Ve her birimiz kendisine. Senin konuşacağın Ve benim seni dinleyeceğim güne değin. Sesini sesim sanarak. Ve karşında durduğum güne değin. Bir aynanın karşısında duruyormuşcasına." -Kahlil Gibran
"I abstain from the people who consider insolence bravery and tenderness cowardice. And I abstain from those who consider chatter wisdom and silence ignorance." -Kahlil Gibran
"O love, whose lordly hand Has bridled my desires, And raised my hunger and my thirst To dignity and pride, Let not the strong in me and the constant Eat the bread or drink the wine That tempt my weaker self. Let me rather starve, And let my heart parch with thirst, And let me die and perish, Ere I stretch my hand To a cup you did not fill, Or a bowl you did not bless." -Kahlil Gibran
"Forget not that modesty is for a shield against the eye of the unclean." -Kahlil Gibran
"يغمسون اقلامهم في دماء قلوبنا ثمَّ يدَّعون الوحي والإلهام ." -Kahlil Gibran
"You often say, ‘I would give, but only to the deserving.' The trees in your orchard say not so, nor the flocks in your pasture. They give that they may live, for to withhold is to perish." -Kahlil Gibran
"To be able to look back upon ones life in satisfaction, is to live twice" -Kahlil Gibran
"And there are those who have the truth within them, but they tell it not in words." -Kahlil Gibran
"ALMUSTAFA, the chosen and the beloved, who was a dawn unto his own day, had waited twelve years in the city of Orphalese for his ship that was to return and bear him back to the isle of his birth." -Kahlil Gibran
"If you sing of beauty though alone in the heart of the desert you will have an audience." -Kahlil Gibran
"I deserted the world and sought solitude because I became tired of rendering courtesy to those multitudes who believe that humility is a sort of weakness, and mercy a kind of cowardice, and snobbery a form of strength." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن الشيوخ يرجعون بالفكر إلى أيام شبابهم رجوع الغريب المشتاق إلى مسقط رأسه، ويميلون إلى سرد حكايات الصبا ميل الشاعر إلى تنغيم أبلغ قصائده، فهم يعيشون بالروح في زوايا الماضي الغابر لأن الحاضر لا يمر بهم ولا يلتفت." -Kahlil Gibran
"Let there be spaces in your togetherness...just as strings of a lute dance alone though they quiver with the same music." -Kahlil Gibran
"لو أن ما يقولونه عن الخير والشر كان حقا، إذا لأضحت حياتي جريمة متصلة" -Kahlil Gibran
"And how shall you rise beyond your days and nights unless you break the chains which you at the dawn of your understanding have fastened around your noon hour?" -Kahlil Gibran
"Shall I come to you, a boundless drop to a boundless ocean." -Kahlil Gibran
"خطاست اگر بیندیشیم ""عشق"" حاصل مصاحبت دراز مدت .و با هم بودنی مجدّانه است عشق ثمره ی ""خویشاوندی روحی"" است ،و اگر این خویشاوندی در لحظه تحقق نیابد .در طول سالیان و حتی نسل ها نیز تحقق نخواهد یافت " -Kahlil Gibran
"أبداً تغشانا موجة الكلام ، غير أن أعماقنا تلزم الصمت أبداً" -Kahlil Gibran
"And a man said, speak to us of self-knowledge.and he answered, saying:Your hearts know in silence the secrets of the days and the nights.But your ears thirst for the sound of your heart's knowledge.You would know in words that which you have always known in thought.You would touch with your fingers the naked body of your dreams.And it is well that you should.The hidden well-spring of your soul must needs rise and run murmuring to the sea;and the treasure of your infinite depths would be revealed to your eyes.But let there be no scales to weigh your unknown treasure;And seek not the depths of your knowledge with staff or sounding line.For self is a sea boundless and measureless." -Kahlil Gibran
"أنت صالح إذا كنت واحداً مع ذاتك" -Kahlil Gibran
"العقل فينا إسفنجة والقلب جدولأليس عجيباً أن أكثرنا يؤثر الامتصاص على الانسياب ؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"Work is love made visible. And if you cannot work with love, but only with distaste, it is better that you should leave your work and sit at the gate of the temple and take alms from those who work with joy. For if you bake bread with indifference, you bake a bitter bread that feeds but half our hunger." -Kahlil Gibran
"يا خيبتي ، يا خيبة ! يا شجاعتي التي لا تموتأنت تضحكين معي في العاصفة، و تحفرين معي قبورا لما يموت مني و منك، و تقفين معي أمام وجه الشمس بجلد و ثبات ...فنكون معا هائلين و راعبين" -Kahlil Gibran
"My God, my aim and my fulfillment; I am thy yesterday and thou are my tomorrow. I am they root in the earth and thou art my flower in the sky, and together we grow before the face of the sun." -Kahlil Gibran
"You would know the secret of death.But how shall you find it unless you seek it in the heart of life?" -Kahlil Gibran
"Who are you that men should rend their bosom and unveil their pride, that you may see their worth naked and their pride unabashed?See first that you yourself deserve to be a giver, and an instrument of giving." -Kahlil Gibran
"And a woman who held a babe against her bosom said, Speak to us of Children. And he said: Your children are not your children. They are the sons and daughters of Life's longing for itself. They come through you but not from you, And though they are with you yet they belong not to you. You may give them your love but not your thoughts, For they have their own thoughts. You may house their bodies but not their souls, For their souls dwell in the house of tomorrow, which you cannot visit, not even in your dreams. You may strive to be like them, but seek not to make them like you. For life goes not backward nor tarries with yesterday." -Kahlil Gibran
"رأيت هذه الانقلابات الموجعة في ملامح سلمى، رأيتها جميعها، ولكنها لم تكن فينظري إلا كسحابة رقيقة توشّح القمر فتزيد منظره حسنًا وهيبة. إن الملامح التي تُبيحأسرار الذات المعنوية تكسب الوجه جمالًا وملاحة مهما كانت تلك الأسرار موجعة وأليمة" -Kahlil Gibran
"ليت لي ألف عين ترى كل ما يعرضه علي الوجود منن عجائبه وطرائفه ، وليتني أبقى تائقا الى مرأى ما خفي عني من أسراره ومكنوناته" -Kahlil Gibran
"من، خاموش شده ام زیرا گوش های جهان از شنیدن نوای ضعیفان و ناله هایشان روی گردان شده اند" -Kahlil Gibran
"Say not, 'I have found the path of the soul.' Say rather, 'I have met the soul walking upon my path." -Kahlil Gibran
"ياعجباً، إن الرغبة في لذّات معينة هي بعض المي" -Kahlil Gibran
"In the depth of my soul there are songs unwilling to take the garb of words, songs living as seed in my heart. They will not flow with ink onto paper. Like a translucent veil, they are wrapped about emotions that can never flow sweetly on my tongue.Yet how can I even whisper them when I fear what the particles of air may do to them? To whom shall I sing them when they have become accustomed to live in the house of my soul and fear the harshness of other ears?Were you to look into my eyes, you would see the image of their image. Were you to touch my fingertips, you would feel their quick movements. The works of my hands reveal them as the lake reflects the twinkling of the stars.My tears disclose them as the mystery of the rose petal is disclosed at the moment the heat dissolves the drops of dew when that rose withers.… Who can combine the roaring of the sea and the warbling of the nightingale? Who can link the crashing thunder with the baby's sigh?" -Kahlil Gibran
"He who wears his morality but as his best garment were better naked." -Kahlil Gibran
"تعلّم كيفَ تتجاهل كلّ شيء،وكيف تَقِف وحيداً دون مساعدة أحد،نعلّم ألّا تعيش على الانتظار،ولا تكُن هامشاً بحياةِ أحد،تجاهل مشاعرك كثيراًواستوعب أن لا أحَد يَدوم لأحَد." -Kahlil Gibran
"لا تحفظ الأبدية إلا المحبة لأنها مثلها." -Kahlil Gibran
"اذا كان قلبك بركانا فأنّى لك أن ترى الازهار تتفتّح بين يديك" -Kahlil Gibran
"Have you beauty, that leads the heart from things fashioned of wood and stone to the holy mountain? Tell me, have you these in your houses? Or have you only comfort, and the lust for comfort, that stealthy thing that enters the house a guest, and becomes a host, and then a master? Ay, and it becomes a tamer, and with hook and scourge makes puppets of your larger desires. Though its hands are silken, its heart is of iron. It lulls you to sleep only to stand by your bed and jeer at the dignity of the flesh. It makes mock of your sound senses, and lays them in thistledown like fragile vessels. Verily the lust for comfort murders the passion of the soul, and then walks grinning in the funeral. But you, children of space, you restless in rest, you shall not be trapped nor tamed. Your house shall be not an anchor but a mast. It shall not be a glistening film that covers a wound, but an eyelid that guards the eye. You shall not fold your wings that you may pass through doors, nor bend your heads that they strike not against a ceiling, nor fear to breathe lest walls should crack and fall down. You shall not dwell in tombs made by the dead for the living. And though of magnificence and splendour, your house shall not hold your secret nor shelter your longing. For that which is boundless in you abides in the mansion of the sky, whose door is the morning mist, and whose windows are the songs and the silences of night." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن الملامح التي تبيح أسرار الذات المعنوية تكسب الوجه جمالًا وملاحة مهما كانت تلك الأسرار موجعة وأليمة. أما الوجوه التي لا تتكلم بصمتها عن غوامض النفس وخفاياها فلا تكون جميلة مهما كانت متناسقة الخطوط متناسبة الأعضاء." -Kahlil Gibran
"ليس السخاء بأن تعطيني ما أنا بحاجة إليه أكثر منك،بل السخاء في أن تعطيني ما تحتاج إليه أكثر منّي." -Kahlil Gibran
"Like a procession you walk together towards your god-self.You are the way and the wayfarers.And when one of you falls down he falls for those behind him, a caution against the stumbling stone.Ay, and he falls for those ahead of him, who though faster and surer of foot, yet removed not the stumbling stone." -Kahlil Gibran
"Like a procession you walk together towards your god-self." -Kahlil Gibran
"أني لك أن تغني إذا كان فمُك مفعماً بالطعام ؟و أنى ليدكَ أن ترتفع لتسأل البركة إذا كانت مترعة بالذهب ؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"كان لي مولد ثان حين انعقد الحب بين جسدي و روحي فتزاوجا." -Kahlil Gibran
"You have walked among us a spirit, and your shadow has been a light upon our faces." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن الرجل يشترى المجد والعظمة والشهرة، ولكن هى المرأة التى تدفع الثمن." -Kahlil Gibran
"But you who walk facing the sun, what images drawn on the earth can hold you? You who travel with the wind, what weathervane shall direct your course? What man's law shall bind you if you break your yoke but upon no man's prison door? What laws shall you fear if you dance but stumble against no man's iron chains? And who is he that shall bring you to judgment if you tear off your garment yet leave it in no man's path? People of Orphalese, you can muffle the drum, and you can loosen the strings of the lyre, but who shall command the skylark not to sing?" -Kahlil Gibran
"If you would indeed behold the spirit of death, open your heart wide unto the body of life." -Kahlil Gibran
"كم مرة سرت ورفيقي في عالم الظهور فقلت في نفسي ما أحمقه ما أبلده .. غير انني لم أبلغ عالم السر حتى وجدتني الجائر الظالم وألفيته الحكيم الظريف" -Kahlil Gibran
"نفرزندانتان از آنِ شما نیستند! آن‌ها پسران و دخترانی هستندکه از خودشیفتگی زندگی، جان گرفته‌اند. آن‌ها به وسیله شما، و نه از شما شکل می‌گیرند، گرچه درکنار شما آسوده‌اند اما در تملک شما نیستند. شما مجازید که عشق خود را به ایشان هدیه کنید، نه افکارتان را، که آن‌ها خود فکورند." -Kahlil Gibran
"You may give them your love but not your thoughts," -Kahlil Gibran
"دع روحك تحلق بعقلك إلى ذرى العاطفة، حتى تصدح بالنغم." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your hearts know in silence the secrets of the days and the nights.But your ears thirst for the sound of your heart's knowledge.You would know in words that which you have always known in thought.You would touch with your fingers the naked body of your dreams." -Kahlil Gibran
"تلاقى الجمال والقبح ذات يوم على شاطئ البحر، فقال كل منهما للآخر هل لك أن تسبح؟ثم خلعا ملابسهما، وخاضا العباب. وبعد برهة عاد القبح إلى الشاطئ وارتدى ثياب الجمال، ومضى في سبيله. وجاء الجمال أيضاً من البحر، ولم يجد لباسه ، وخجل كل الخجل أن يكون عارياً، ولذلك لبس رداء القبح، ومضى في سبيله.ومنذ ذلك اليوم والرجال والنساء يخطئون كلما تلاقوا في معرفة بعضهم البعض.غير أن هناك نفراً ممن يتفرسون في وجه الجمال، ويعرفونه رغم ثيابه. وثمة نفر يعرفون وجه القبح،والثوب الذي يلبسه لا يخفيه عن أعينهم." -Kahlil Gibran
"The brooks flow to their lover, the sea, and the flowers smile at the object of their passion, the light. The mist rolls down to its beloved, the valley. And I? In me is what brooks do not know, what flowers do not hear, what the mist does not apprehend. You see me alone in my love, solitary in my yearning." -Kahlil Gibran
"They give that they may live, for to withhold is to perish." -Kahlil Gibran
"By that tomb grows Gibran's sorrow together with the cypress trees, and above the tomb his spirit flickers every night commemorating Selma, joining the branches of the trees in sorrowful wailing, mourning and lamenting the going of Selma, who, yesterday was a beautiful tune on the lips of life and today is a silent secret in the bosom of the earth..Solitude has soft, silky hands, but with strong fingers it grasps the heart and makes it ache with sorrow. Solitude is the ally of sorrow as well as a companion of spiritual exaltation..He lives spiritually in the past because the present passes swiftly, and the future seems to him an approach to the oblivion of the grave..Now I know that there is something higher than heaven and deeper than the ocean and stranger than life and death and time. I know now what I did not know before..When I walked in the fields, I saw the token of Eternity in the awakening of nature, and when I sat by the seashore I heard the waves singing the song of Eternity..We were three people, gathered and crushed by the hands of destiny; and all of us were toys in the hands of fate..Be happy because I shall live in you after my death..This is the only friend I shall have after you are gone, but how can he console me when he is suffering also? How can a broken heart find consolation in a disappointed soul? A sorrowful woman cannot be comforted by her neighbour's sorrow, nor can a bird fly with broken wings..It is hard to write down in words the memories of those hours when I met Selma −−those heavenly hours, filled with pain, happiness, sorrow, hope, and misery..A bird with broken wings cannot fly in the spacious sky..He was born like a thought and died like a sigh and disappeared like a shadow..His life began at the end of the night and ended at the beginning of the day." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن روحي تنهض في نهوض الفجر متجردة متحررة" -Kahlil Gibran
"الفن يطلب ولا يطلب منهالشعلة الزرقاء - جبران" -Kahlil Gibran
"فالارواح السابحة هناك تحب الارواح السائره هنا.الشعلة الزرقاء - جبران" -Kahlil Gibran
"Do not the spirits who dwell in the ether envy man his pain?" -Kahlil Gibran
"ما أجهل الناس الذين يتوهمون أن المحبة تتولد بالمعاشرة الطويلة والمرافقة المستمرة، إن المحبة الحقيقية هي ابنة التفاهم الروحي." -Kahlil Gibran
"اللؤلؤة هيكلٌ شادَه الألم حول حبة من رمل .ترى أي شوقٍ شادَ أبداننا و حول أية حبّات ؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"They come through you but not from you," -Kahlil Gibran
"And if there come the singers and the dancers and the flute players, buy of their gifts also.For they too are gatherers of fruit and frankincense, and that which they bring, though fashioned of dreams, is raiment and food for your soul." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your children are not your children.They are the sons and daughters of Life's longing for itself.They come through you but not from you,And though they are with you, yet they belong not to you." -Kahlil Gibran
"الحق يُعرف في كل حال، ولا ينطق به إلا في بعض الأحوال" -Kahlil Gibran
"Every man loves two women;the one is the creation of his imagination and the other is not yet born" -Kahlil Gibran
"You are good when you are one with yourself." -Kahlil Gibran
"Oftentimes in denying yourself pleasure you do but store the desire in the recesses of your being.Who knows but that which seems omitted today, waits for tomorrow?Even your body knows its heritage and its rightful need and will not be deceived.And your body is the harp of your soul,And it is yours to bring forth sweet music from it or confused sounds." -Kahlil Gibran
"وأنا يا مريم لا أمزج الشراب القدسي بعصير آخر .الشعلة الزرقاء - جبران" -Kahlil Gibran
"You work that you may keep pace with the earth and the soul of the earth." -Kahlil Gibran
"Once there lived in the ancient city of Afkar two learned men who hated and belittled each other's learning. For one of them denied the existence of the gods and the other was a believer.One day the two met in the market-place, and amidst their followers they began to dispute and to argue about the existence or the non-existence of the gods. And after hours of contention they parted.That evening the unbeliever went to the temple and prostrated himself before the altar and prayed the gods to forgive his wayward past.And the same hour the other learned man, he who had upheld the gods, burned his sacred books. For he had become an unbeliever." -Kahlil Gibran
"And when one of you falls down he falls for those behind him, a caution against the stumbling stone." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن الأنسان وإن ولد حراً يظل عبداً لقسوة الشرائع التي سنها اباؤه وأجداده .." -Kahlil Gibran
"فيا أصدقاء شبيبتي المنتشرين في بيروت، إذا مررتم بتلك المقبرة القريبة من غابة الصنوبر ادخلوها صامتين، وسيروا ببطء كيلا تزعج أقدامكم رفات الراقدين تحت أطباق الثرى، وقفوا متهيبين بجانب قبر سلمى وحيوا التراب الذي ضم جثمانها. ثم اذكروني بتنهدة قائلين في نفوسكم: ههنا دفنت آمال ذلك الفتى الذي نفته صروف الدهر إلى ما وراء البحار، وههنا توارت أمانيه وانزوت أفراحه وغادرت دموعه واضمحلت ابتساماته، وبين هذه المدافن الخرساء تنمو كآبته مع أشجار السرو والصفصاف. وفوق هذا القبر ترفرف روحه كل ليلة مستأنسة بالذكرى، مرددة مع أشباح الوحشة ندابات الحزن والأسى، نائحة مع الغصون على صبية كانت بالأمس نغمة شجية بين شفتي الحياة فأصبحت اليوم سراً صامتاً في صدر الأرض.أستحلفكم يا رفاق الصبا بالنساء اللواتي أحبتهن قلوبكم أن تضعوا أكاليل الأزهار على قبر المرأة التي أحبها قلبي ـ فرب زهرة تلقونها على ضريح منسي تكون كقطرة الندى التي تسكبها أجفان الصباح بين أوراق الورود الذابلة." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن رؤساء الدين في الشرق لا يكتفون بما يحصلون عليه أنفسهم من المجد والسؤدد ، بل يفعلون كل ما في وسعهم ليجعلوا أنسباءهم في مقدمة الشعب ومن المستبدِّين به والمستدرّين قواه وأمواله . إن مجد الأمير ينتقل بالإرث إلى ابنه البكر بعد موته ، أما مجد الرئيس الديني فينتقل بالعدوى إلى الإخوة وأبناء الإخوة في حياته . وهكذا يصبح الأسقف المسيحي والإمام المسلم والكاهن البرهمي ، كأفاعي البحر التي تقبض على الفريسة بمقابض كثيرة وتمتصّ دماءها بأفواه عديدة ." -Kahlil Gibran
"The sun teaches to all things that grow their longing for the light. But it is night that raises them to the stars." -Kahlil Gibran
"And my heart bled within me; for you can only be free when even the desire of seeking freedom becomes a harness to you, and when you cease to speak of freedom as a goal and a fulfillment." -Kahlil Gibran
"عذاب النفس بثباتها أمام المصاعب والمتاعب هو أشرف من تقهقرها إلى حيث الأمن والطمأنينة" -Kahlil Gibran
"The real in us is silent; the acquired is talkative." -Kahlil Gibran
"خیال، حقیقتِ مطلق را می‌بیند - جایی كه گذشته، اكنون و آینده به هم می‌رسند...خیال نه به واقعیت ظاهر محدود است و نه به یك مكان. همه جا می‌زید. در كانون است و ارتعاش تمامی حلقه‌هایی را احساس می‌كند كه شرق و غرب به گونه‌ای مجازی در آن جای دارند. خیال، حیات آزادی ذهن است. به جنبه‌های گوناگون هر چیز تحقق می‌بخشد... خیال رو به تعالی ندارد: نمی‌خواهیم رو به تعالی داشته باشد، فقط می‌خواهیم آگاه‌تر باشیم.دوست دارم سراسر زندگی‌ای را كه در من است، بریزم و هر لحظه را تا نهایتش درك كنم.ماری، فهمیدم تمامی مشكلات كه از تو بر سر من آمد، به خاطر حقارت و ترسی در خود من بود.هفتم ژوئن 1912" -Kahlil Gibran
"الجمال ضالتنا المنشودة في حياتنا كلها، وكل مادون ذلك أشكال من الإنتظار." -Kahlil Gibran
"المرأة كالقيثارة. الذى لا يحسن العزف عليها ، تسمعه أنغاماً لا ترضيه." -Kahlil Gibran
"Love possesses not nor would it be possessed;" -Kahlil Gibran
"Love is a magic rayemitted from the burning coreof the souland illuminatingthe surrounding earth.It enables usto perceive lifeas a beautiful dreambetween one awakeningand another." -Kahlil Gibran
"ولكنكما عندما رأيتماني مصلوباً قلتماما ألطف نزف دمائه من عروقه ، وما أجمل الخطوط التي ترسمها في مسيلها على جلده الناصع" -Kahlil Gibran
"Have you remembrances, the glimmering arches that span the summits of the mind?" -Kahlil Gibran
"إذا رضيت فعبر عن رضاك, لا تصطنع نصف رضا وإذا رفضت .. فعبر عن رفضك لانه نصف الرفض قبول .. النصف هو حياة لم تعشها وهو كلمة لم تقلها وهو أبتسامة أجلتها وهو حب لم تصل إليه , وهو صدافة لم تعرفها النصف هو ما يجعلك غريباً عن أقرب الناس إليك وهوما يجعل أقرب الناس إليك غرباء عنك" -Kahlil Gibran
"And let it direct your passion with reason, that your passion may livethrough its own daily resurrection, and like the phoenix rise above its own ashes." -Kahlil Gibran
"قال لي جاري منذ ألف سنة: ""أكره الحياة، فهي مجرَّد ألَم"". مررْتُ أمس بالمقبرة فرأيتُ الحياة ترقص فوق قبره♥" -Kahlil Gibran
"You were born together, and together you shall be for evermore.You shall be together when the white wings of death scatter your days." -Kahlil Gibran
"تعلمت الصمت من الثرثار والاجتهاد من الكسلان والتواضع من المتكبر والغريب أننى لا أقر بفضل هؤلاء" -Kahlil Gibran
"The poets and writers are trying to understand the reality of woman, but up to this day they have not understood the hidden secret of her heart because they look upon her from behind the sexual veil and see nothing but the externals: they look upon her through a magnifying glass of hatefulness and find nothing except weakness and submission." -Kahlil Gibran
"Verily you are suspended like scales between your sorrow and your joy. Only when you're empty you're at standstill and balance." -Kahlil Gibran
"پیش از تمام شدن سال می آییپیش از تمام شدن ماهپیش از تمام شدن هفتهپیش از تمام شدن این روزپیش از مرگ این لحظهپیش از این که به گریه بیفتمسرانجام می آییپیش از اینکه این شعر به پایان رسدپیش از آن که مرگ از راه رسدتو پیش از عشقتو پیش از مرگتو از همه زودتر خواهی رسید" -Kahlil Gibran
"في قلب كل شتاء ربيع نابض، ووراء كل ليل فجر باسم." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن محبة الوطن عاطفة وضعية في الانسان فإذا عانقت الحكمة هذه العاطفة تنقلب فضيلة علوية ولكنها إذا خاصرت الادعاء والبهورة تتحول الى رذيلة قبيحة" -Kahlil Gibran
"غير أن الأمة التي تعتل ثم تموت لا تبعث ثانية لتظهر للملأ أسباب الأمراض المعنوية و ماهية الأدواء الاجتماعية التي تؤول بالأمم إلى الانقراض و العدم." -Kahlil Gibran
"For even as love crowns you so shall he crucify you." -Kahlil Gibran
"Nor is it a thought I leave behind me, but a heart made sweet with hunger and with thirst." -Kahlil Gibran
"All you have shall some day be given; therefore give now that the season of giving is yours and not your inheritors." -Kahlil Gibran
"only love and death change all things." -Kahlil Gibran
"و الحق أن الحنان الذي يتأمل نفسه في المرآة ينقلب صخرا،و العمل الطيب الذي ينعت نفسه بجميل السجايا يغدو للّعنة أبا" -Kahlil Gibran
"البغضاء موت. من منكم يحب أن يكون لحداً" -Kahlil Gibran
"It was but yesterday we met in a dream.You have sung to me in my aloneness,and I of your longings have built a tower in the sky.But now our sleep has fled and our dream is over,and it is no longer dawn.The noontide is upon us and our half-waking has turned to fuller day,and we must part.If in the twilight of memory we should meet once more,we shall speak again together andyou shall sing to me a deeper song.And if our hands should meet in another dreamwe shall build another tower in the sky." -Kahlil Gibran
"And when the storm comes, and the mighty wind shakes the forest, and thunder and lightning proclaim the majesty of the sky, – then let your heart say in awe, 'God moves in passion." -Kahlil Gibran
"من نقّب وبحث ثم كتب فهو ربع كاتب، ومن رأى وصف فهو نصف كاتب، ومن شعر وأبلغ الناس شعوره فهو الكاتب كله،" -Kahlil Gibran
" لا يغربن عن بالكم أن الحشمة درع ضد عين في قلب صاحبها رجاسة. وعندما لا يبقى هناك من رجاسة فهل الحشمة إذ ذاك غير غل في العنق وغير قذارة في الفكر؟ ثم لا تنسوا أن الأرض تبتهج بلمس أقدامكم العارية، وظان الريح تتوق إلى اللعب بشعوركم." -Kahlil Gibran
"Life is indeed darkness save when there is urge, and all urge is blind save when there is knowledge, and all knowledge is vain save when there is work, and all work is empty save when there is love." -Kahlil Gibran
"ألا تحسد الأرواح القاطنة في الأثير الإنسان على كآبته ؟؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"At the city gate and by your fireside I have seen you prostrate yourself and worship your own freedom,Even as slaves humble themselves before a tyrant and praise him though he slays them.Ay, in the grove of the temple and in the shadow of the citadel I have seen the freest among you wear their freedom as a yoke and a handcuff.And my heart bled within me; for you can only be free when even the desire of seeking freedom becomes a harness to you, and when you cease to speak of freedom as a goal and a fulfilment.You shall be free indeed when your days are not without a care nor your nights without a want and a grief,But rather when these things girdle your life and yet you rise above them naked and unbound.And how shall you rise beyond your days and nights unless you break the chains which you at the dawn of your understanding have fastened around your noon hour?In truth that which you call freedom is the strongest of these chains, though its links glitter in the sun and dazzle your eyes.And what is it but fragments of your own self you would discard that you may become free?If it is an unjust law you would abolish, that law was written with your own hand upon your own forehead.You cannot erase it by burning your law books nor by washing the foreheads of your judges, though you pour the sea upon them.And if it is a despot you would dethrone, see first that his throne erected within you is destroyed.For how can a tyrant rule the free and the proud, but for a tyranny in their own freedom and a shame in their own pride?And if it is a care you would cast off, that care has been chosen by you rather than imposed upon you.And if it is a fear you would dispel, the seat of that fear is in your heart and not in the hand of the feared.Verily all things move within your being in constant half embrace, the desired and the dreaded, the repugnant and the cherished, the pursued and that which you would escape.These things move within you as lights and shadows in pairs that cling.And when the shadow fades and is no more, the light that lingers becomes a shadow to another light.And thus your freedom when it loses its fetters becomes itself the fetter of a greater freedom." -Kahlil Gibran
"These are the believers in life and the bounty of life, and their coffer is never empty." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن كآبة الوالدين لزواج الابنة تضارع فرحهما بزواج الابن ، لأن هذا يكسب العائلة عضوًا جديدًا ، أما ذاك فيسلبها عضوًا قديمًا عزيزًا ." -Kahlil Gibran
"لن أستمسك بما أستمسك بي ,يا سأتعالى إلى ذلك الذي يتعالى إالي ما فوق مقدوري" -Kahlil Gibran
"Yesterday I stood at the temple door interrogating the passersby about the mystery and merit of Love.And before me passed an old man with an emaciated and melancholy face, who sighed and said: ""Love is a natural weakness bestowed upon us by the first man.""But a virile youth retorted: ""Love joins our present with the past and the future.""Then a woman with a tragic face sighed and said: ""Love is a deadly poison injected by black vipers, that crawl from the caves of hell. The poison seems fresh as dew and the thirsty soul eagerly drinks it; but after the first intoxication the drinker sickens and dies a slow death.""Then a beautiful, rosy-cheeked damsel smilingly said: ""Love is a wine served by the brides of Dawn which strengthens strong souls and enables them to ascend to the stars.""After her a black-robed, bearded man, frowning, said: ""Love is a divine knowledge that enables men to see as much as the gods.""Then said a blind man, feeling his way with a cane: ""Love is a blinding mist that keeps the soul from discerning the secret of existence, so that the heart sees only trembling phantoms of desire among the hills, and hears only echoes of cries from voiceless valleys.""And a feeble ancient, dragging his feet like two rags, said, in quavering tones:""Love is the rest of the body in the quiet of the grave, the tranquility of the soul in the depth of Eternity.""And a five-year-old child, after him, said laughing:""Love is my father and mother, and no one knows Love save my father and mother.""And so, all who passed spoke of Love as the image of their hopes and frustrations, leaving it a mystery as before." -Kahlil Gibran
"Work is love made visible. And if you cannot work with love but only with distaste, it is better that you should leave your work…For if you bake with indifference, you bake a bitter bread." -Kahlil Gibran
"المرء إن لم تحبل به الكآبة ويتمخض به اليأس، وتضعه المحبة في مهد الأحلام، تظل حياته كصفحة خالية بيضاء في كتاب الكيان." -Kahlil Gibran
"To know the pain of too much tenderness." -Kahlil Gibran
"So the wrong-doer cannot do wrong without the hidden will of you all." -Kahlil Gibran
"Love gives naught but itself and takes naught but from itself." -Kahlil Gibran
"For the sight of the angry weather saddens my soul and the sight of the town, sitting like a bereaved mother beneath layers of ice, oppresses my heart." -Kahlil Gibran
"Build of your imaginings a bower in the wilderness ere you build a house within the city walls." -Kahlil Gibran
"The two lovers walked among the willow trees, and the oneness of each was a language speaking of the oneness of both; and an ear listening in silence to the inspiration of love; and a seeing eye seeing the glory of happiness. ""Astarte has brought back our souls to this life so that the delights of love and the glory of youth might not be forbidden us, my beloved." -Kahlil Gibran
"این داستان من است برای هر کسی که دوست دارد بداند چگونه دیوانه شدم :در روزهای بسیار دور و پیش از آنکه بسیاری از خدایان متولد شوند، از خواب عمیقی بر خواستمو در یافتم که همه نقابهایم دزدیده شده است آن هفت نقابی که خود بافته بودم و در هفت دوره زندگانی بر روی زمین بر چهره زدم .لذا بی هیچ نقابی در خیابان های شلوغ شروع به دویدن کردم و فریاد زدم:دزدها ! دزدها! دزدهای لعنتی !مردها و زنها به من خندیدند و برخی از آنان نیز به وحشت افتادند و به سوی خانه هایشان گریختند.چون به میدان شهر رسیدم، ناگهان جوانی که بر بام یکی از خانه ها ایستاده بود فریاد بر آورد :ای مردم ! این مرد دیوانه است !سرم را بالا بردم تا او را ببینم اما خورشید برای نخستین بار بر چهره بی نقابم بوسه زد و این براینخستین بار بود که خورشید چهره بی نقاب مرا بوسید ، پس جانم در محبت خورشید ملتهب شد و دریافتم که دیگر نیازی به نقابهایم ندارم و گویی در حالت بی هوشی فریاد بر آوردم و گفتم :مبارک باد ! مبارک باد آن دزدانی که نقابهایم را دزدیدند!این چنین بود که دیوانه شدم اما آزادی و نجات را در این دیوانگی با هم یافتم :آزادی در تنهایی و نجات از اینکه مردم از ذات من آگاهی یابند زیرا آنان که از ذات و درون ما آگاه شوند،می کوشند تا ما را به بندگی کشند امانباید برای نجاتم بسیار مفتخر شوم زیرا دزد اگر بخواهد از دزدان دیگر امنیت یابد باید در زندان باشد !ا" -Kahlil Gibran
"Forget not that the earth likes to feel your bare feet and the winds long to play with your hair.Khalil Gibran" -Kahlil Gibran
"Learn the words of wisdom uttered by the wise and apply them in your own life. Live them - but do not a make a show of reciting them, for he who repeats what he does not understand is no better than an ass loaded with books." -Kahlil Gibran
"هَبني صمتاً فأغلبُ به الليل جرأة" -Kahlil Gibran
"Your pain is the breaking of the shell that encloses your understanding" -Kahlil Gibran
"Qualities of Good Citizens... is to admire what others have created in love and faith" -Kahlil Gibran
"ولا تعط الكلاب ما هو مقدس، ولا تضع لآلئك فى طريق الخنازير لأنك تكون قد سخرت منها وأنت تهدى إليها مثل الهدايا، وهى على هذا سوف تسخر من هداياك، وفى حقدها ستتحرق شوقاً إلى دمارك." -Kahlil Gibran
"To you the earth yields her fruit, and you shall not want if you but know how to fill your hands." -Kahlil Gibran
"You have been told that, even like a chain, you are as weak as your weakest link.This is but half the truth.You are also as strong as your strongest link.To measure you by your smallest deed is to reckon the power of ocean by the frailty of its foam.To judge you by your failures is to cast blame upon the seasons for their inconstancy.Aye, you are like an ocean,And though heavy-grounded ships await the tide upon your shores, yet, even like an ocean, you cannot hasten your tides.And like the seasons you are also,And though in your winter you deny your spring,Yet spring, reposing within you, smiles in her drowsiness and is not offended." -Kahlil Gibran
"But I say to you that when you work you fulfill a part of earth's furthest dream, assigned to you when that dream was born, And in keeping yourself with labour you are in truth loving life, And to love life through labour is to be intimate with life's inmost secret." -Kahlil Gibran
"منذ فجر شبابي وأنا أرى في أحلام يقظتي وأحلام نومي طيف امرأة غريبة الشكل والمزايا. كنت أراها في ليالي الوحدة واقفة قرب مضجعي. وكنت أسمع صوتها في السكينة. وكنت في بعض الأحيان أغمض عيني وأشعر بملامس أصابعها على جبهتي فأفتح عيني وأهب مذعوراً مصغياً بكل ما بي من المسامع إلى همس اللاشيء.وكنت أقول لذاتي : هل تطوّح بي خيالي حتى ضعت في الضباب؟ هل صنعت من أبخرة أحلامي امرأة جميلة الوجه عذبة الصوت لينة الملامس لتأخذ مكان امرأة من الهيولى؟ هل خولطت بعقلي فاتخذت من ظلال عقلي رفيقة أحبها وأستأنس بها وأركن إليها وأبتعد عن الناس لأقترب منها وأغلق عيني ومسامعي عن كل ما في الحياة من الصور والأصوات لأرى صورتها وأسمع صوتها؟ أمجنون أنا يا ترى؟ أمجنون لم يكتفِ بالانصراف إلى العزلة بل ابتدع له من أشباح العزلة رفيقة وقرينة؟قلت "" قرينة "" وأنتم تستغربون هذه اللفظة، ولكن هنام بعض الاختبارات التي نستغربها بل ونمكرها لأنها تظهر لنا بمظاهر المستحيل ولكن استغرابنا ونكراننا لا يمحوان حقيقتها في نفوسنا. لقد كانت تلك المرأة الخيالية قرينة لي، تساهمني وتبادلني كل ما في الحياة من الميول والمنازع والأفراح والرغائب، فلم أستيقظ صباحاً إلا رأيتها متكئة على مساند سريري وهي تنظر إلي بعينين يملأهما الطفولة وعطف الأمومة. ولم أحاول عملاً إلا ساعدتني على تحقيقه. ولم أجلس إلى مائدة إلا جلست قبالتي تحدثني وتبادلني الآراء والأفكار. وما جاء مساء إلا اقتربت مني قائلة : قم بنا نسر بين التلول والمنحدرات، كفانا الإقامة في هذا المنزل. فأترك إذ ذاك عملي وأسير قابضاً على أصابعها، حتى إذا ما بلغنا البرية المتشحة بنقاب المساء المغمورة بسحر السكون نجلس جنباً إلى جنب على صخرة عالية محدقين إلى الشفق البعيد. فكانت تارة تومىء إلى الغيوم المذهبة بأشعة الغروب وطوراً تسترعي سمعي إلى تغريد الطائر يبعث صوته تسبيحة شكر وطمأنينة قبيل أن يلتجىء إلى الأغصان للمبيت.وكم دخلت عليّ وأنا أشتغل في غرفتي قلقاً مضطرباً فلا تلمحها عيني حتى يتحول قلقي إلى الهدوء واضطرابي إلى الائتلاف والاستئناس.وكم لقيت الناس وفي روحي جيش يزحف متمرداً على ما أكرهه فب نفوسهم، ولكنني ما تبينت وجهها بين وجوههم إلا انقلبت الزوبعة في باطني إلى أنغام علوية.وكم جلست منفرداً وفي قلبي سيف من ألم الحياة ومتاعبها وحول عنقي سلاسل من مشاكل الوجود ومعضلاته، ثم ألتفت فأراها واقفة أمامي محدقة إليّ بعينين تفيضان نوراً وبهاء فتنقشع غيومي ويتهلل قلبي وتبدو الحياة لبصيرتي جنة أفراح ومسرات.وأنتم تسألون، يا رفاقي، ما إذا كنت مقتنعاً بهذه الحالة الشاذة الغريبة- تسألون ما إذا كان المرء وهو في عنفوان شبابه يستطيع الاكتفاء بما تدعونه وهماً وخيالاً وحلماً بل وعلة نفسية؟أقول لكم إن الأعوام التي صرفتها في تلك الحالة لهي زبدة ما عرفته في الحياة من الجمال والسعادة واللذة والطمأنينة. أقول لكم إنني كنت ورفيقتي الأثيرية فكرة مطلقة مجردة تطوف في نور الشمس وتطفو على وجه البحار وتسعى في الليالي المقمرة وتتهلل بأغان ما سمعتها أذن وتقف أمام مشاهد ما رأتها عين. إن الحياة، كل الحياة، هي في ما نختبره بأرواحنا. والوجود، كل الوجود، هو في ما نعرفه ونتحققه فنبتهج به أو نتوجع لأجله. وأنا قد اخبرت أمراً بروحي، اختبرته كل يوم وكل ليلة حتى بلغت الثلاثين من عمري. ليتني لم أبلغ الثلاثين من عمري. ليتني مت ألف مرة ومرة قبل أن أبلغ تلك السنة التي سلبتني لباب حياتي واستنزفت دماء قلبي وأوقفتني أمام الأيام والليالي شجرة يابسة عارية مستوحدة فلا ترقص أغصانها لأغاني الهواء ولا تحوك الأطيار أعشاشها بين أوراقها وأزهارها." -Kahlil Gibran
"الصديق المزيف كالظل..يسير معي في الشمس، و يهجرني إذا حل الظلام!!" -Kahlil Gibran
"If you can see only what light reveals and hear only what sound announces, then in truth you do not see nor do you hear." -Kahlil Gibran
"فكر واحد يجيئك في سكينة الليل ويسير بك إلى المجد أو إلى الجنون. نظرة واحدة من أطراف أجفان امرأة تجعلك أسعد الناس أو أتعسهم. كلمة واحد تخرج من بين شفتي رجل تصيرك غنياً بعد الفقر أو فقيراً بعد الغنى." -Kahlil Gibran
"Love passes by us, robed in meekness; but we flee from her in fear, or hide in the darkness; or else pursue her, to do evil in her name." -Kahlil Gibran
"بـالقلب نُـحب .. و بـالعقل نكره .. و بالاثنين نُصاب بالجنون !!~" -Kahlil Gibran
"ما اهونني حين تهبني الحياة ذهبا وأهبك فضة، ثم أعد نفسي كريما" -Kahlil Gibran
"أليس الزمن كالحب نفسه، لا ينقسم ولا يُقاس؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"وهل الخوف من الحاجة إلا الحاجةُ ذاتها؟أليست خشيةُ الظمأ، وبئرك مَلأى، هو العطش لا تُروَى له غلَّة؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"أنا لا أخاف من الدهر لأنه أفرغ جميع سهامه في صدري" -Kahlil Gibran
"إن الغامض و الغائم هما بداية كل شئ و ليسا نهايته, فالحياة –و مثلها كل حي- يبدأ الحمل بها في الغمام لا في الصفاء.و من يدري لعل الصفاء غمام تحلل؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"He suffered much, but he understood the mystery of pain: he knew that tears make all things shine." -Kahlil Gibran
"All these things have you said of beauty. Yet in truth you spoke not of her but of needs unsatisfied, And beauty is not a need but an ecstasy. It is not a mouth thirsting nor an empty hand stretched forth, But rather a heart enflamed and a soul enchanted. It is not the image you would see nor the song you would hear, But rather an image you see though you close your eyes and a song you hear though you shut your ears. It is not the sap within the furrowed bark, nor a wing attached to a claw, But rather a garden for ever in bloom and a flock of angels for ever in flight. People of Orphalese, beauty is life when life unveils her holy face. But you are life and you are the veil. Beauty is eternity gazing at itself in a mirror. But you are eternity and your are the mirror." -Kahlil Gibran
"فلسنا من سمو الروح بحيث نمجد ملوكاً لا ممالك لهم، أو نسمع إلى أنغام القيثارة إلا إذا غمزت الأصابع أوتارها، أو نتطلع إلى الأطفال يلعبون فى أحراج الزيتون وكأنهم شجيرات منها صغيرة.ولا بد لنا من كلمات تجرى على شفاه من لحم، وإلا عدّ بعضنا بعضاً صماً بكماً.وفى الحق إننا نحملق ولا نرى، ونصيخ ولا نسمع، ونطعم ونشرب ولكننا لا نستمرئ." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن النفس الحزينة المتألمة تجد راحة بانضمامها إلى نفس أخرى تماثلها بالشعور وتشاركها بالإحساس ، مثلما يستأنس الغريب بالغريب في أرض بعيدة عن وطنهما ، فالقلوب التي تدنيها أوجاع الكآبة بعضها من بعض لا تفرِّقها بهجة الأفراح وبهرجتها . فرابطة الحزن أقوى في النفوس من روابط الغبطة والسرور . والحب الذي تغسله العيون بدموعها يظل طاهرًا وجميلًا وخالدًا ." -Kahlil Gibran
"هبني صمتا فأغلب به الليل جرأة" -Kahlil Gibran
"You need not fear, my love,for never have the stars on hightold what they know." -Kahlil Gibran
"The musician may sing to you of the rhythm which is in all space, but he cannot give you the ear which arrests the rhythm, nor the voice that echoes it." -Kahlil Gibran
"Our God, who art our winged self, it is thy will in us that willeth.It is thy desire in us that desireth. It is thy urge in us that would turn our nights, which are thine, into days which are thine also. We cannot ask thee for aught, for thou knowest our needs before they are born in us: Thou art our need; and in giving us more of thyself thou givest us all." -Kahlil Gibran
"ولكن أليست المرأة الضعيفة هي رمز الأمة المظلومة؟ أليست المرأة المتوجعة بين أميال نفسها وقيود جسدها هي كالأمة المتعذبة بين حكامها وكهانها. أوليست العواطف الخفية التي تذهب بالصبية الجميلة إلى ظلمة القبر هي كالعواطف الشديدة التي تغمر حياة الشعوب بالتراب؟ إن المرأة من الأمة بمنزلة الشعاع من السراج وهل يكون شعاع السراج ضئيلاً إذا لم يكن زيته شحيحاً." -Kahlil Gibran
"When you love you should not say, ""God is in my heart,"" but rather, ""I am in the heart of God."" And think not you can direct the course of love, if it finds you worthy, directs your course." -Kahlil Gibran
"A bigot is a stone-deaf orator." -Kahlil Gibran
"العظيم حقآ هو الذي لايحب ان يسود أحدآ ولا يحب أن يسوده أحد" -Kahlil Gibran
"لما تعبت من ملاحقة الأجيال ومللت النظر إلى مواكب الشعوب والأمم، جلست وحيدا فى وادى الأشباح حيث تختبئ خيالات الأزمنة الغابرة وتربض أرواح الأزمنة الآتية : هنالك رأيت شبحا هزيلا يسير منفردا محدقا بوجهه نحو الشمس فسألته (من أنت ؟ وما اسمك ؟)قال (اسمى الحرية)قلت (وأين أبناؤك ؟)قال (واحد مات مصلوبا وواحد مات مجنونا وواحد لم يولد بعد) ثم توارى عن عينى وراء الضباب." -Kahlil Gibran
"الأولى وهكذا شاءت السماء وعتقتني على حين غفلة من عبودية الحيرة والحداثة لأسير حراً في موكب المحبة، فالمحبة هي الحرية الوحيدة في هذا العالم لأنها ترفع النفس إلى مقام سام لا تبلغه شرائع البشر وتقاليدهم، ولا تسود عليه نواميس الطبيعة وأحكامها." -Kahlil Gibran
"They are the sons and daughters of Life's longing for itself." -Kahlil Gibran
"النهاوند حنين من يحيا ببعض الأمل ، فالأصفهان أنين من انفصمت عُرى آماله ." -Kahlil Gibran
"لمرءُ إنْ لم تَحبلْ بهِ الكآبةُ ويتمخّضُ بهِ اليأسُ ، وتضعهُ المحبّة في مهدِ الأحلامِ ، تظلُّ حياتُهُ كصفحةٍ خاليةٍ بيضاءَ في كتابِ الكيانِ" -Kahlil Gibran
"Then Almitra spoke again and said, and what of Marriage master? And he answered saying: You were born together, and together you shall be forevermore. You shall be together when the white wings of death scatter your days. Ay, you shall be together even in the silent memory of God. But let there be spaces in your togetherness, and let the winds of the heavens dance between you. Love one another, but make not a bond of love: let it rather be a moving sea between the shores of your souls. Fill each other's cup but drink not from one cup. Give one another of your bread but eat not from the same loaf. Sing and dance together and be joyous, but let each one of you be alone." -Kahlil Gibran
"كتبت على بابي "" دع نفاقك خارجا و ادخل "" فلم يزرني أحد" -Kahlil Gibran
"إن النفس الحزينة المتألمة تجد راحة بانضمامها إلى نفس أخرى تماثلها بالشعور وتشاركها بالإحساس مثلما يستأنس الغريب بالغريب في أرض بعيدة عن وطنيهما ــ فالقلوب التي تدنيها أوجاع الكآبة بعضها مع بعض لا تفرقها بهجة الأفراح وبهرجتها، فرابطة الحزن أقوى في النفوس من روابط الغبطة والسرور؛ والحب الذي تغسله العيون بدموعها يظل طاهراً وجميلاً وخالداً." -Kahlil Gibran
"سيروا في سبيلكم وأَنتم تغنون , ولكن لتكن كلُّ أُغنية قصيرة لأَن الأَغاني االتي تموت باكرًا على شفاهكم , هي وحدها التي تعيش في قلوب الناس" -Kahlil Gibran
"إن الذين لم يهبهم الحب أجنحة لا يستطيعون أن يطيروا إلى ما وراء الغيوم ليروا ذلك العالم السحري الذي طافت فيه روحي وروح سلمى في تلك الساعة المحزنة بأفراحها المفرحة بأوجاعها . إن الذين لم يتخذهم الحب أتباعًا لا يسمعون الحب متكلِّمًا ، فهذه الحكاية لم تُكتب لهم ، فهم وإن فهموا معاني هذه الصفحات الضئيلة لا يمكنهم أن يروا ما يسيل بين سطورها من الأشباح والأخيلة التي لا تلبس الحبر ثوبًا ولا تتخذ الورق مسكنًا . لكن أي بشريّ لم يرشف من خمرة الحب في إحدى كاساته ؟ أية نفس لم تقف متهيبة في ذلك الهيكل المنير المرصوف بحبات القلوب المسقوف بالأسرار والأحلام والعواطف ؟ أي زهرة لم يسكب الصباح قطرة من الندى بين أوراقها ؟ وأي ساقية تضل طريقها ولا تذهب إلى البحر ؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"أى رجل يخرج عن طاعة رئيس دينه فى الشرق ويظل كريما بين الناس ؟ أتعاند العين سهما ولا تفقأ ؟ أو تناضل اليد سيفا ولا تقطع ؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"وكان ينظر إلىّ مثلما تخيّم أغصان الشجرة العالية المملوءة بمآتي الفصول فوق غرسة صغيرة مفعمة بعزم هاجع وحياة عمياء. شجرة مسنّة راسخة الأعراق قد اختبرت صيف العمر وشتاءه ووقفت أمام عواصف الدهر وأنوائه, وغرسة ضعيفة ليّنة لم ترَ غير الربيع ولم ترتعش إلاّ بمرور نسيم الفجر." -Kahlil Gibran
"وما يكون العمل الممزوج بالحبَّ؟هو أن تَنْسجَ الثَّوبَ بخيوط مَسْلولة من قلبك، كما لو كان هذا الثوب سيرتديه من تُحِبَّ.هو أن تبني دارًا والمحبّةُ رائدك، كما لو كانت هذه الدّار ستَضمُّ مَنْ تُحِبُّ.هو أن تنثرَ البذورَ في حَنان، وتجمعَ حَصادك مبتهجًا، كما لو كانت الثَّمارُ سيأكلها مَنْ تُحِبُّ.هو أن تنفَحَ كلَّ ما تصنعه يداك بنَسْمَة من روحك، وأن تُدرك أن كلَّ الراحلين المباركين مُلتفّون حولك يُراقبون." -Kahlil Gibran
"Work with love, it is to weave the cloth with threads drawn from your heart." -Kahlil Gibran
"You have been told that, even like a chain, you are as weak as your weakest link. This is but half the truth. You are also as strong as your strongest link. To measure you by your smallest deed is to reckon the power of ocean by the frailty of its foam. To judge you by your failures is to cast blame upon the seasons for their inconstancy. Ay, you are like an ocean, And though heavy-grounded ships await the tide upon your shores, yet, even like an ocean, you cannot hasten your tides." -Kahlil Gibran
"يشرق الجمال أكثر لمعانا ً في قلب المشتاق إليه مما في عيني الذي يراه ." -Kahlil Gibran
"لسوف تكون كلماتى جيشاً لا ترونه بخيله وعتاده لا يحمل أسنة ولا حراباً، وبه سوف أقهر كهنة بيت المقدس كما سوف أغلب القياصرة.لن أتربع على عرش تبوأ عليه عبيد ليحكموا غيرهم من العبيد، كما لن أكون حرباٌ على أبناء إيطاليا.ولكنى سأكون عاصفة فى سائهم وأغنية فى أرواحهم." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your children are not your children." -Kahlil Gibran
"In the stillest hour of the night, as I lay half asleep, my seven selves sat together and thus conversed in whispers:First Self: Here, in this madman, I have dwelt all these years, with naught to do but renew his pain by day and recreate his sorrow by night. I can bear my fate no longer, and now I rebel.Second Self: Yours is a better lot than mine, brother, for it is given to me to be this madman's joyous self. I laugh his laughter and sing his happy hours, and with thrice winged feet I dance his brighter thoughts. It is I that would rebel against my weary existence.Third Self: And what of me, the love-ridden self, the flaming brand of wild passion and fantastic desires? It is I the love-sick self who would rebel against this madman.Fourth Self: I, amongst you all, am the most miserable, for naught was given me but odious hatred and destructive loathing. It is I, the tempest-like self, the one born in the black caves of Hell, who would protest against serving this madman.Fifth Self: Nay, it is I, the thinking self, the fanciful self, the self of hunger and thirst, the one doomed to wander without rest in search of unknown things and things not yet created; it is I, not you, who would rebel.Sixth Self: And I, the working self, the pitiful labourer, who, with patient hands, and longing eyes, fashion the days into images and give the formless elements new and eternal forms- it is I, the solitary one, who would rebel against this restless madman.Seventh Self: How strange that you all would rebel against this man, because each and every one of you has a preordained fate to fulfil. Ah! could I but be like one of you, a self with a determined lot! But I have none, I am the do-nothing self, the one who sits in the dumb, empty nowhere and nowhen, while you are busy re-creating life. Is it you or I, neighbours, who should rebel?When the seventh self thus spake the other six selves looked with pity upon him but said nothing more; and as the night grew deeper one after the other went to sleep enfolded with a new and happy submission.But the seventh self remained watching and gazing at nothingness, which is behind all things." -Kahlil Gibran
"Reason, ruling alone, is a force confining; and passion, unattended, is a flame that burns to its own destruction." -Kahlil Gibran
"لقد علمت بأن الإنسان وإن ولد حراً يظل عبداً لقساوة الشرائع التي سنها آباؤه وأجداده، وأن القضاء الذي نتوهمه سراً علوياً لهو استسلام اليوم إلى مآتي الأمس، وخضوع الغد إلى أميال اليوم" -Kahlil Gibran
"When you long for blessings that you may not name, and when you grieve knowing not the cause, then indeed you are growing with all things that grow, and rising toward your greater self." -Kahlil Gibran
"Fear not the phantom of death, My Countrymen, for his greatnessAnd mercy will refuse to approachYour smallness; and dread not the Dagger, for it will decline to beLodged in your shallow hearts." -Kahlil Gibran
"أنتَ حرٌّ طليقٌ تحتَ شمس النَّهار.وأنتَ حرٌّ طليقٌ تحتَ نجوم اللَّيل.وأنتَ حرٌّ طليقٌ إذ لا شمس ولا قمر ولا نجوم.لا بل أنتَ حرٌّ عندما تٌغمِض عينَيكَ عن كلِّ ما حولك.ولكنَّكَ عبدٌ لمَنْ تُحِبّ .. لأنَّك تحبُّه.وأنتَ عبدٌ لمَنْ يحِبُّك .. لأنَّه يحِبُّك." -Kahlil Gibran
"A Great Man Has Two Hearts.One Bleeds And The Other Forbears." -Kahlil Gibran
"لا تناهضوا الشر, فإن مناهضة الشر غذاء له يهيجه ويذكيه." -Kahlil Gibran
"For to be overmindful of your debt is to doubt his generosity who has the free-hearted earth for mother, and God for father." -Kahlil Gibran
"Nerede olursa olsun, toprağı kaz, bir hazine bulacaksın;ama bir çiftçinin inancıyla kazmalısın." -Kahlil Gibran
"It is in exchanging the gifts of the earth that you shall find abundance and be satisfied." -Kahlil Gibran
"Oh, heart, if one should say to you that the soul perishes like the body, answer that the flower withers, but the seed remains." -Kahlil Gibran
"Death changes nothing but the masks that cover our faces." -Kahlil Gibran
"For to stay, though the hours burn in the night, is to freeze and crystallize and be bound in a mould." -Kahlil Gibran
"أن النفس الحزينة المتأملة تجد راحة بأنضمامها الى نفس أخرى تماثلها وتشاركها بالأحساس مثلما يستأنس الغريب بالغريب فى أرض بعيدة عن وطنيهما." -Kahlil Gibran
"لأن التحرق للرفاهية ينحر أهواء النفس في كبدها فيرديها قتيلة ،، ثم يسير في جنازتها فاغراً شدقيه مرغياً مزبداً" -Kahlil Gibran
"You give but little when you give of your possessions." -Kahlil Gibran
"استعطفك يا صديقتي أن تكتبي إليَّ واستعطفك أن تكتبي إليَّ بالروح المطلقة المجردة المجنحة التي تعلو فوق سبل البشر . أنت وأنا نعلم الشيء الكثير عن البشر وعن تلك الميول التي تقربهم إلى بعضهم البعض ، وتلك العوامل التي تبعد بعضهم عن البعض . فهلا تنحينا ولو ساعة واحدة عن تلك السبل المطروقة ووقفنا محدقين...ولو مرة واحدة بما وراء الليل ، بما وراء النهار , بما وراء الزمن بما وراء الأبدية" -Kahlil Gibran
"You are a slave to him whom you love because you love him. And a slave to him who loves you because he loves you." -Kahlil Gibran
"You would measure time the measureless and the immeasurable.You would adjust your conduct and even direct the course of your spirit according to hours and seasons.Of time you would make a stream upon whose bank you would sit and watch its flowing.Yet the timeless in you is aware of life's timelessness,And knows that yesterday is but today's memory and tomorrow is today's dream.And that that which sings and contemplates in you is still dwelling within the bounds of that first moment which scattered the stars into space.Who among you does not feel that his power to love is boundless?And yet who does not feel that very love, though boundless, encompassed within the centre of his being, and moving not from love thought to love thought, nor from love deeds to other love deeds?And is not time even as love is, undivided and spaceless?But if in your thought you must measure time into seasons, let each season encircle all the other seasons,And let today embrace the past with remembrance and the future with longing." -Kahlil Gibran
"But let there be no scales to weigh your unknown treasure." -Kahlil Gibran
"You are good in countless ways, and you are not evil when you are not good," -Kahlil Gibran
"لقد توارثت الأجيال الأمراض والعاهات النفسيّة بعضها عن بعض، حتّى أصبحت عموميّة، بل صارت من الصفات الملازمة للإنسان فلم يعد الناس ينظرون إليها كعاهات وأمراض بل يعتبرونها كخصال طبيعية نبيلة أنزلها الله على آدم، فإذا ما ظهر بينهم فرد خال منها ظنّوه ناقصاً محروماً من الكمالات الروحيّة." -Kahlil Gibran
"They see only their shadows, and their shadows are their laws." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن عقولكم وعواطفكم هي الدفة والشراع لأرواحكم السارحة في البحار ، فإذا تحطمت الدفة أو تمزق الشراع ، تقاذفتها الأمواج فضلت ، أو توقفت بلا حراك وسط الخضم. فالعقل إذا سيطر وحده بات قوة تقيدكم ، والعاطفة إذا تركت وشأنها دون وازع غدت لهيبا يتلظى حتى تخمد ، فدع روحك تحلق بعقلك إلى ذرى العاطفة ، حتى تصدح بالنغم." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your house shall be not an anchor but a mast." -Kahlil Gibran
"الأمواج تجمعنا على ذلك الشاطئ الهادئ، وان قتلتنا هذه الحياة فذاك الموت يحيينا" -Kahlil Gibran
"In your longing for your giant self lies your goodness: and that longing is in all of you.But in some of you that longing is a torrent rushing with might to the sea, carrying the secrets of the hillsides and the songs of the forest.And in others it is a flat stream that loses itself in angles and bends and lingers before it reaches the shore.But let not him who longs much say to him who longs little, 'Wherefore are you slow and halting?'For the truly good ask not the naked, 'Where is your garment?' nor the houseless, 'What has befallen your house?" -Kahlil Gibran
"And to both, bee and flower, the giving and the receiving of pleasure is a need and an ecstasy." -Kahlil Gibran
"You may judge others only according to your knowledge of yourself." -Kahlil Gibran
"And verily he will find the roots of the good and the bad, the fruitful and the fruitless, all entwined together in the silent heart of the earth." -Kahlil Gibran
"If tragedy does not ensnare a man, if affliction does not agitate him, if love does not lay him down in the cradle of dreams, then his life is like a blank, white page in the book of existence. In that year I saw the" -Kahlil Gibran
"For the soul walks upon all paths." -Kahlil Gibran
"The veil that clouds your eyes shall be lifted by the hands that wove it, And the clay that fills your ears shall be pierced by those fingers that kneaded it. And you shall see.And you shall hear." -Kahlil Gibran
"Sorrow is just a wall between two gardens." -Kahlil Gibran
"True light is that which radiates from within a man. It reveals the secrets of the soul to the soul and lets it rejoice in life, singing in the name of the Spirit. Truth is like the stars, which cannot be seen except beyond the darkness of night. Truth is like all beautiful things in existence; it does not reveal its beauties save to those who have felt the weight of falsehood. Truth is a hidden feeling which teaches us to rejoice in our days and to wish all mankind that rejoicing." -Kahlil Gibran
"And even as each one of you stands alone in God's knowledge, so must each one of you be alone in his knowledge of God and in his understanding of the earth." -Kahlil Gibran
"Therefore trust the physician, and drink his remedy in silence and tranquillity:" -Kahlil Gibran
"And let to-day embrace the past with remembrance and the future with longing." -Kahlil Gibran
"وليقل الناس ما أرادوا عني ؛ فالنفس التي شاهدت وجه الموت لا تذعرها وجوه اللصوص ، والجندي الذي رأى السيوف محتبكة فوق رأسه وسواقي الدماء تجري تحت قدميه لا يحفل بالحجارة التي يرشقه بها صبيان الأَزِقَّة." -Kahlil Gibran
"تسألينني سيّدتي ما إذا كنت وحيد الفكر والقلب والرّوح ، فبما أجيبكـ ؟ أشعر أنّ وحدتي ليست بأشدّ ولا بأعمق من وحدة غيري من النّاس .. كلّنا وحيد مُنفرد .. كلّنا سرّ خفيّ .. كلّنا محجوب بألف نقاب ونقاب ، وما الفرق بين مُستوحد ومُستوحد سوى أنّ الأوّل يتكلّم عن وحدته والثّاني يظلّ صامتاً .. وقد يكون في الكلام بعض الرّاحة ، وقد يكون في الصّمت بعض الفضيلة .." -Kahlil Gibran
"Her bones were of bronze and her sinews of the ancient elms, and her eyes were like the sky, wide and daring." -Kahlil Gibran
"Speak not of peoples and laws andKingdoms, for the whole earth isMy birthplace and all humans areMy brothers." -Kahlil Gibran
"And the cup he brings, though it burn your lips, has been fashioned of the clay which the Potter has moistened with His own sacred tears." -Kahlil Gibran
"For what is it to die but to stand naked in the wind and melt into the sun?" -Kahlil Gibran
"فما أشد قساوة الإنسان وما أكثر رأفته !" -Kahlil Gibran
"And he to whom worshipping is a window, to open but also to shut, has not yet visited the house of his soul whose windows are from dawn to dawn." -Kahlil Gibran
"I am a stranger to myself, and when I hear my tongue speak, my ears wonder over my voice; I see my inner self smiling, crying, braving, and fearing; and my existence wonders over my substance while my soul interrogates my heart; but I remain unknown, engulfed by tremendous silence.My thoughts are strangers to my body, and as I stand before the mirror, I see something in my face which my soul does not see, and I find in my eyes what my inner self does not find." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن الميت يرتعش أمام العاصفة أما الحي فيسير معها راكضا ولا يقف إلا بوقوفها" -Kahlil Gibran
"ليس المُوفق من تواتيه المُنى .. لكن من رُزق الثبات موفق" -Kahlil Gibran
"Your joy is your sorrow unmasked.And the selfsame well from which your laughter rises was oftentimes filled with your tears.And how else can it be?The deeper that sorrow carves into your being, the more joy you can contain.Is not the cup that holds your wine the very cup that was burned in the potter's oven?And is not the lute that soothes your spirit, the very wood that was hollowed with knives?When you are joyous, look deep into your heart and you shall find it is only that which has given you sorrow that is giving you joy.When you are sorrowful look again in your heart, and you shall see that in truth you are weeping for that which has been your delight.Some of you say, 'Joy is greater than sorrow,' and others say, 'Nay, sorrow is the greater.'But I say unto you, they are inseparable.Together they come, and when one sits alone with you at your board, remember that the other is asleep upon your bed.Verily you are suspended like scales between your sorrow and your joy.Only when you are empty are you at standstill and balanced.When the treasure-keeper lifts you to weigh his gold and his silver, needs must your joy or your sorrow rise or fall." -Kahlil Gibran
"Chaque hiver abrite en son coeur un printemps qui frissonne et derrière le voile de chaque nuit se profile une aube souriante" -Kahlil Gibran
"For his hand, though heavy and hard, is guided by the tender hand of the Unseen," -Kahlil Gibran
"Only love and death, are capable of changing everything." -Kahlil Gibran
"رأيت العنق الذي كان مرفوعاً كعمود العاج قد انحنى إلى الأمام كأنه لم يعد قادراً على حمل ما يجول في تلافيف الرأس." -Kahlil Gibran
"Then a priestess said, 'Speak to us of Prayer.' And he answered, saying: You pray in your distress and in your need; would that you might pray also in the fullness of your joy and in your days of abundance.For what is prayer but the expansion of your self into the living ether?And if it is for your comfort to pour your darkness into space, it is also for your delight to pour forth the dawning of your heart.And if you cannot but weep when your soul summons you to prayer, she should spur you again and yet again, though weeping, until you shall come laughing.When you pray you rise to meet in the air those who are praying at that very hour, and whom save in prayer you may not meet.Therefore let your visit to that temple invisible be for naught but ecstasy and sweet communion.For if you should enter the temple for no other purpose than asking you shall not receive:And if you should enter into it to humble yourself you shall not be lifted:Or even if you should enter into it to beg for the good of others you shall not be heard.It is enough that you enter the temple invisible.I cannot teach you how to pray in words.God listens not to your words save when He Himself utters them through your lips.And I cannot teach you the prayer of the seas and the forests and the mountains.But you who are born of the mountains and the forests and the seas can find their prayer in your heart,And if you but listen in the stillness of the night you shall hear them saying in silence:'Our God, who art our winged self, it is thy will in us that willeth.'It is thy desire in us that desireth.'It is thy urge in us that would turn our nights, which are thine, into days, which are thine also.'We cannot ask thee for aught, for thou knowest our needs before they are born in us:'Thou art our need; and in giving us more of thyself thou givest us all." -Kahlil Gibran
"Do not limp before the lame, deeming it a kindness." -Kahlil Gibran
"الثورات التي أجرت الدماء كالسواقي وجعلت الحرية تعبد كالآلهة كانت فكراً خيالياً مرتعشاً بين تلافيف دماغ رجل فرد عاش بين ألوف من الرجال. الحروب الموجعة التي ثلت العروش وخربت الممالك كانت خاطراً يتمايل في رأس رجل واحد. التعاليم السامية التي غيرت مسير الحياة البشرية كانت ميلاً شعرياً في نفس رجل واحد منفصل بنبوغه عن محيطه. فكر واحد أقام الأهرام وعاطفة واحدة خربت طروادة وخاطر واحد أوجد مجد الإسلام وكلمة واحدة أحرقت مكتبة الإسكندرية." -Kahlil Gibran
"Would that you could live on the fragrance of the earth, and like an air plant be sustained by the light." -Kahlil Gibran
"Who can depart from his pain, and his aloneness without regret??" -Kahlil Gibran
"Manusia tidak akan dapat menuai cinta sampai dia merasakan perpisahan yang menyedihkan, dan yang mampu membuka pikirannya, merasakan kesabaran yang pahit dan kesulitan yang menyedihkan" -Kahlil Gibran
"And when you can no longer dwell in the solitude of your heart you live in your lips, and sound is a diversion and a pastime." -Kahlil Gibran
"فنسي ذاته المقتبسة و التقى بذاته المعنوية الخفية المفعمة بالأحلام المترفعة عن شرائع الإنسان و تعاليمه و اتسعت دوائر الرؤيا أمام عينيه و انبسطت له خفايا الأسرار" -Kahlil Gibran
"Glaube nicht, du kannst den Lauf der Liebe lenken, denn die Liebe, wenn sie dich für würdig hält, lenkt deinen Lauf." -Kahlil Gibran
"Je tiefer sich das Leid in euer Sein eingräbt, desto mehr Freude könnt ihr fassen." -Kahlil Gibran
"تعلّم كيفَ تتجاهل كلّ شيء،وكيف تَقِف وحيداً دون مساعدة أحد،تعلّم ألّا تعيش على الانتظار،ولا تكُن هامشاً بحياةِ أحد،تجاهل مشاعرك كثيراًواستوعب أن لا أحَد يَدوم لأحَد." -Kahlil Gibran
"اذهب الى البرية تجد النحلة حائمة حول الزهور و النسر ينقض على الفريسة. ادخل بيت جارك تر الطفل مدهوشا بأشعة النار و الوالدة مشغولة بأعمال منزلها. كن أنت كالنحلة و لا تصرف أيام الربيع ناظرا أعمال النسر. كن كالطفل و افرح بأشعة النار و دع والدتك و شأنها." -Kahlil Gibran
"Know, therefore, that from the greater silence I shall return..... Forget not that I shall come back to you....A little while, a moment of rest upon the wind, and anohter woman shall bear me." -Kahlil Gibran
"لا يا أخي لم أطلب الوحدة للصلاة والتقشف بل طلبتها هارباً من الناس وشرائعهم وتعاليمهم وتقاليدهم وافكارهم وضجتهم وعويلهم." -Kahlil Gibran
"You are the way and the wayfarers.And when one of you falls down he falls for those behind him, a caution against the stumbling stone.Aye, and he falls for those ahead of him, who, though faster and surer of foot, yet removed not the stumbling stone." -Kahlil Gibran
"في الجامعة البشرية أضراس مسوسة وقد نخرتها العلة حتي بلغت عظم الفك ، غير ان الجامعة البشرية لا تستأصلها لترتاح من اوجاعها بل تكتفي بتمريضها وتنظيف خارجها وملء ثقوبها بالذهب اللماع." -Kahlil Gibran
"Art is a step from what is obvious and well-known toward what is arcane and concealed." -Kahlil Gibran
"السعادة بدونها (الموسيقى) تحاكي فتاة قُطع لسانها" -Kahlil Gibran
"All these things shall love do unto you that you may know the secrets of your heart, and in that knowledge become a fragment of Life's heart." -Kahlil Gibran
"عندما رماني الله حصاة صغيرة في هذه البحيرة العجيبة أزعجت هدوءهابأن أحدثت على سطحها دوائر لا يحصى عديدها .......و لكني عندما بلغت إلى أعماقها صرت هادئة مثلها" -Kahlil Gibran
"For God opens the doors of truth to him who knocks with the hand of faith" -Kahlil Gibran
"song of the rainiam dotted silverthreads dropped from heaven by the gods ,nature then takes me to adornher fields and valleys iam beautiful pears plucked from the crown of ishtar by the daugter of down to embellish the gardenwhen icry the hills laugh when i humble my self the flower rejoice when i bow all the things are elated" -Kahlil Gibran
"من الغريب أن يكون أحبّ الناس الينا أقدرهم على تشويش حياتنا ." -Kahlil Gibran
"Believing is a fine thing, but putting those beliefs into execution is a test of strength." -Kahlil Gibran
"yo amo demasiado mi infierno para querer que tu lo visites" -Kahlil Gibran
"You have been told that, even like a chain, you are as weak as your weakest link. This is but half the truth. You are also as strong as your strongest link. To measure you by your smallest deed is to reckon the power of ocean by the frailty of its foam." -Kahlil Gibran
"الفن خطوه من خطى الطبيعه الى اللا نهائيه" -Kahlil Gibran
"People of Orphalese, beauty is life when life unveils her holy face." -Kahlil Gibran
"Let it rather be a moving sea between the shores of your souls." -Kahlil Gibran
"The appearance of things change according to the emotions, and thus we see magic and beauty in them, while the magic and beauty are really in ourselves." -Kahlil Gibran
"Every beauty and greatness in this world is created by a single thought or emotion inside a man. Every thingwe see today, made by past generation, was, before its appearance, a thought in the mind of a man or animpulse in the heart of a woman. The revolutions that shed so much blood and turned men's minds towardliberty were the idea of one man who lived in the midst of thousands of men. The devastating wars whichdestroyed empires were a thought that existed in the mind of an individual. The supreme teachings thatchanged the course of humanity were the ideas of a man whose genius separated him from his environment" -Kahlil Gibran
"Therefore give now, that the season of giving may be yours and not your inheritors'." -Kahlil Gibran
"الكثير من آلامكم هو الجرعة الشديدة المرارة التي بواسطتها يَشفي الطبيب الحكيم الساهر في أعماقكم أسقام نفوسكم البشرية" -Kahlil Gibran
"You want to know the meaning of death. But how shall you find it unless you seek it in the heart of life?" -Kahlil Gibran
"الوحدة عاصفة ساكنة تحطم أغصاننا الميتة.وهي مع ذلك تضرب بجذورها في أقصى أعماق القلب النابض من الأرض الحية" -Kahlil Gibran
"إن الكيميائى الذى يستطيع أن يستخلص من عناصر قلبهالرحمة والاحترام واللهفة والصبر والندم والدهشة والعفوويدمج هذه العناصر فى عنصر واحديمكن أن يخترع هذه الذرة التى تسمى الحب" -Kahlil Gibran
"7 ALASAN MENCELA DIRITujuh kali aku pernah mencela jiwaku,Pertama kali ketika aku melihatnya lemahpadahal seharusnya ia bisa kuatKedua kali ketika melihatnya berjalan terjongket-jongket, dihadapan orang yang lumpuhKetiga kali ketika berhadapan dengan pilihan yang sulit dan mudahia memilih yang mudahKeempat kalinya, ketika ia melakukan kesalahan dan coba menghibur diri dengan mengatakan bahwa semua orang juga melakukan kesalahanKelima kali, ia menghindar karena takut, lalu mengatakannya sebagai sabarKeenam kali, ketika ia mengejek kepada seraut wajah burukpadahal ia tahu, bahwa wajah itu adalah salah satu topeng yang sering ia pakaiDan ketujuh, ketika ia menyanyikan lagu pujian dan menganggap itu sebagai suatu yang bermanfaat" -Kahlil Gibran
"My first glimpse of you was not in truth the first. The hour in which our hearts met confirmed in me the belief in Eternity and in the immortality of the Soul." -Kahlil Gibran
"Some believe that art is the imitation of nature; in fact, nature is so sublime that it cannot be imitated. However noble it may be, art cannot perform a single one of the miracles of nature. And besides, why imitate nature when it can be perceived by all those endowed with senses?" -Kahlil Gibran
"And there are those who give with pain, and that pain is their baptism." -Kahlil Gibran
"Do not blame a person for drinking lest he is trying to forget something more serious than drinking." -Kahlil Gibran
"If this is my day of harvest, in what fields have I sowed the seed, and in what unremembered seasons?" -Kahlil Gibran
"The selfsame well from which your laughter now rises was once filled with your tears... The deeper sorrow carves into your being, the more joy you can contain." -Kahlil Gibran
"Destiny comes suddenly, bringing concern; she stares at you with horrible eyes and clutches you at the throat with sharp fingers and hurls you to the ground and tramples upon you with ironclad feet; then she laughs and walks away, but later regrets her actions and asks you through good fortune to forgive her. She stretches her silky hand and lifts you high and sings to you the Song of Hope and causes you to lose your cares. She creates in you a new zest for confidence and ambition. If your lot in life is a beautiful bird that you love dearly, you gladly feed to him the seeds of your inner self, and make your heart his cage and your soul his nest. But while you are affectionately admiring him and looking upon him with the eyes of love, he escapes from your hands and flies very high; then he descends and enters into another cage and never comes back to you. What can you do? Where can you find patience and condolence? How can you revive your hopes and dreams? What power can still your turbulent heart?" -Kahlil Gibran
"ولكن من العجائب أننا نمتثل ونستسلم إلى معجزات الأرض والفضاء وفي الوقت نفسه نستصعب تصديق ما يظهر في أرواحنا من المعجزات" -Kahlil Gibran
"Wealth is as love in that it destroys him who withholds it but grants life to him who gives freely of it." -Kahlil Gibran
"أليس غريباً انني كثيراً ما أحب أن يخدعني الناس ويغشوني.. لكي أضحك على حساب الذين يفكرون انني لا أعرف انهم يخدعوننى..!!" -Kahlil Gibran
"كان نجاراً ماهراً، وكان ما يصنعه من الأبواب لا يقوى اللصوص على فتحه أبداً." -Kahlil Gibran
"من ل ايرى الحزان لا يرى الفرح" -Kahlil Gibran
"‫لم اتفق قط مع ذاتى الثانية كل الاتفاق.. ويلوح لى ان سر القضية كائن اخر بينى وبينها‬" -Kahlil Gibran
"But let there be spaces in your togetherness." -Kahlil Gibran
"Once every hundred years Jesus of Nazareth meets Jesus of the Christian in a garden among the hills of Lebanon. And they talk long; and each time Jesus of Nazareth goes away saying to Jesus of the Christian, ""My friend, I fear we shall never, never agree." -Kahlil Gibran
"امام عرش الحرية تفرح هذه الاشجار بمداعبة النسيم وامام هيبتها تبتهج بشعاع الشمس والقمر علي مسامع الحرية تتناجي هذه العصافير وحول اذيالها ترفرف بقرب السواقي في فضاء الحرية تسكب هذه الزهور عطر انفاسها وامام عينيها تبتسم لمجيء الصبح كل مافي الارض يحيا بناموس طبيعته ومن طبيعة ناموسه يستمد مجد الحرية وافراحه اما البشر فمحرمون هذه النعمة لانهم وضحوا لارواحهم شريعة عالمية محدودة وسنوا لاجسادهم ونفوسهم قانونا واحدا قاسيا واقاموا لميولهم وعواطفهم سجنا ضيقا مخيفا وحفروا لقلوبهم وعقولهم قبرا عميقا مظلما فاذا ما قام واحد من بينهم وانفرد عن جامعتهم وشرائعهم قالوا هذا متمرد شرير خليق بالنفي وساقط دنس يستحق الموت ولكن هل يظل الانسان عبدا لشرائعه الفاسده الي انقضاء الدهر ام تحرره الايام ليحيا بالروح وللروح ايبقي الانسان محدقا بالتراب ام يحول عينيه نحو الشمس كيلا يري ظل جسده بين الاشواك والجماجم ؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"الناس وأنا منهم ميالون إلى الرماد، أما النار فيخافونها لأنها تبهر العين وتحرق الأصابع. الناس وأنا منهم، منصرفون الى درس ثنايا قشور بعضهم بعضا، أما اللباب فيتركونه وشأنه لأنه لا يقع تحت حواسهم. وكيف يستطيع اللباب أن يظهر ألا بكسر القشرة؟ وليس من الأمور الهينة أن يمزق المرء قلبه ليرى الناس مكنونات قلبه." -Kahlil Gibran
"Euer Freund ist die Antwort auf eure Nöte." -Kahlil Gibran
"I have always held, with my Madman, that those who understand us enslave something in us. It is not so with you. Your understanding of me is the most peaceful freedom I have known. And in the last two hours of your last visit you took my heart in your hand and found a black spot in it. But just as soon as you found the spot it was erased forever, and I became absolutely chainless." -Kahlil Gibran
"قد ينجح الخداع احيانا ولكنه دائما قاتل نفسه" -Kahlil Gibran
"Then the gates of his heart were flung open, and his joy flew far over the sea. And he closed his eyes and prayed in the silences of his soul." -Kahlil Gibran
"Into the seasonless world where you shall laugh, but not all of your laughter, and weep, but not all of your tears." -Kahlil Gibran
"If the other person laughs at you, you can pity him; but if you laugh at him you may never forgive yourself.If the other person injures you, you may forget the injury; but if you injure him you will always remember.In truth the other person is your most sensitive self given another body." -Kahlil Gibran
"Though his voice may shatter your dreams as the north wind lays waste the garden." -Kahlil Gibran
"آلمچنون : "" پلى ، إنّنآ أخوآن توأمآن أيهآ آلليل ، فأنت تگشف مگنونآت آللآنهآية ، وأنآ أگتشف مگنونآت نفسي" -Kahlil Gibran
"إن عذاب النَفس بثبات أمام المصاعب وَالمتاعب لهوَ أشرفْ من تقهقرها إلى حيث الأمن والطمأنينة فالفراشة التي تظّل مرفرفة حول السراج حتى تحترق هي أسمى من الخلد الذي يعيش براحة وسلامة في نفقه المظلم ..!" -Kahlil Gibran
"When a person loses a friend, he consoles himself with the many other friends about him, and if he loses his gold, he meditates for a while and casts misfortune from his mind, especially when he finds himself healthy and still laden with ambition. But when a man loses the ease of his heart, where can he find comfort, and with what can he replace it? What mind can master it?" -Kahlil Gibran
"خداوند در درون هر یک از ما رسولی قرارداده تاما را به راه روشنی هدایت کند .با وجود این بسیاری هنوز در بیرون از خود به دنبال زندگی می گردند غافل از ان که زندگی در درون انهاست." -Kahlil Gibran
"I have no enemies...but if I am to have an enemy, Let his strength be equal to mine, That truth alone may be the victor." -Kahlil Gibran
"قد حاكت السماء من ظلمة الليل رداء كثيفاً مبطناً بدخان المعامل وأنفاس الموت, وسترت به أضلع المدينة يا حبيبتي !" -Kahlil Gibran
"لولا الضيوف لكانت البيوت قبورا" -Kahlil Gibran
"Remember only that I smiled. I do not atone-nor sacrifice-nor wish for glory; and I have nothing to forgive. I thirsted-and I besought you to give me my blood to drink. For what is there can quench a madman's thirst but his own blood? I was dumb-and I asked wounds of you for mouths. I was imprisoned in your days and nights-and I sought a door into larger days and nights. And now I go-as others already crucified have gone. And think not we are weary of crucifixion. For we must be crucified by larger and yet larger men, between greater earths and greater heavens." -Kahlil Gibran
"إنّ البارّ بالحقيقة هو ذلك الذي يشعر بأنه سبب لنصف الجرم الذي أجرمته أنت.." -Kahlil Gibran
"It is the bitter potion by which the physician within you heals your sick self." -Kahlil Gibran
"اگر بتوانم در قلب یک انسان، گوشه‌ی تازه‌ای را به او بنمایانم، بیهوده نزیسته‌ام" -Kahlil Gibran
"في الوجود عنصران لا ثالث لهما الجمال و الحق , الجمال في قلوب المحبلين, و الحق في سواعد من يحرثون الأرض" -Kahlil Gibran
"Work is love made visible. And if you cannot work with love but only with distaste, it is better that you should leave your work and sit at the gate of the temple and take alms of those who work with joy. For if you bake bread with indifference, you bake a bitter bread that feeds but half man's hunger. And if you grudge the crushing of the grapes, your grudge distills a poison in the wine. And if you sing though as angels, and love not the singing, you muffle man's ears to the voices of the day and the voices of the night." -Kahlil Gibran
"باطلة هي الاعتقادات والتعاليم التي تجعل الانسان تعساً في حياته، وكذابة هي العواطف التي تقوده الى اليأس والحزن والشقاء لان واجب الانسان أن يكون سعيداً على الأرض وأن يعلم سبل السعادة ويكرر باسمها أينما كان." -Kahlil Gibran
"باور چيز خوبي ست ،اما عمل كردن به آن باور ،آزمايش قدرت و توانمندي ست." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن الستحسان نوع من المسؤوليةيضعها الناس على عواتقنا فتجعلنا نشعر بضعفنا . ولكن ل بد من المسير حتى ولو قوّس الحمل الثقيل ظهورنا, ول بد من استنباط القوة من الضعف ." -Kahlil Gibran
"And thus your freedom when it loses its fetters becomes itself the fetter of a greater freedom." -Kahlil Gibran
"You are the way and the wayfarers." -Kahlil Gibran
"إنما الزيجة في أيامنا هذه تجارة مضحكة مبكية يتولى أمورها الفتيان وآباء الصبايا ، الفتيان يربحون في أكثر المواطن والآباء يخسرون دائمًا ، أما الصبايا المنتقلات كالسلع من منزل إلى آخر فتزول بهجتهن ، ونظير الأمتعة العتيقة يصير نصيبهن زوايا المنازل حيث الظلمة والفناء البطيء ." -Kahlil Gibran
"I have come to learn about things that intrigue people through their strangeness. But barley did I find myself in you presence than I understood that life is none other than the different manifestations of the universal spirit." -Kahlil Gibran
"Forget not that I shall come back to you.A little while, and my longing shall gather dust and foam for another body.A little while, a moment of rest upon the wind, and another woman shall bear me.Farewell to you and the youth I have spent with you.It was but yesterday we met in a dream.You have sung to me in my aloneness, and I of your longings have built a tower in the sky.But now our sleep has fled and our dream is over, and it is no longer dawn.The noontide is upon us and our half waking has turned to fuller day, and we must part.If in the twilight of memory we should meet once more, we shall speak again together and you shall sing to me a deeper song.And if our hands should meet in another dream, we shall build another tower in the sky." -Kahlil Gibran
"النفس زهرة لينة في مهب ريح التقادير .. نسيمات الصباح تهزها .. وقطرات الندى تلوي عنقها .. كذا تغريدة عصفور تنبه إنسان من غفلته .. فيصغي .. ويشعر .. ويمجّد معه الحكمة مبدعة نغمة الطائر العذبة وشعوره الرقيق .. وتهيّج تلك التغريدة قوى فكرته .. فيسأل ذاته عما أسرّه لحن ذلك الطائر الصغير فحرّك أوتار عواطفه وأوحى إليه معاني ما حوتها كتب الأُلى تقدَّمَوه .. يسأل مستفهماً عما إذا كان العصفور يناجي زهور الحقل أم يحاك أغصان الأشجار أم يقلّد خرير مجاري المياه أم ينادم الطبيعة بأسرها! ... ولكنه لا يستطيع إلى الحصول على الجواب سبيل." -Kahlil Gibran
"I have loved humanity, I have loved it so much. For me, there are three kinds of men; he who curses life, he who blesses it and he who contemplates it. I loved the first for his wretchedness, the second for his indulgence and the third for his perception." -Kahlil Gibran
"كذا تحيي الشمس الحقول بحرارتها ، وبحرارتها تميتها ." -Kahlil Gibran
"فدنوت منها صامتاً وجلست بقربها جلوس مجوسي متهيب أمام النار المقدسة. ولما حاولت الكلام وجدت لساني منعقداً وشفتي جامدتين فاستأنست بالسكوت لأن الشعور العميق غير المتناهي يفقد شيئاً من خاصته المعنوية عندما يتجسم بالألفاظ المحدودة. ولكنني شعرت بأن سلمى كانت تسمع في السكينة مناجاة قلبي المتواصلة، وتشاهد في عيني أشباح نفسي المرتعشة." -Kahlil Gibran
"I use hate as a weapon to defend myself; had I been strong, I would never have needed that kind of a weapon." -Kahlil Gibran
"The professors in the academy say, 'Do not make the model more beautiful than she is,' and my soul whispers, 'O if you could only paint the model as beautiful as she really is." -Kahlil Gibran
"And if you but listen in the stillness of the night, you shall hear them saying in silence, 'Our God, who art our winged self... we cannot ask thee for aught, for thou knowest our needs before they are born in us; Thou art our needs, and in giving us more of thyself thou givest us all." -Kahlil Gibran
"Could you keep your heart in wonder at the daily miracles of your life, your pain would not seem less wondrous than your joy;" -Kahlil Gibran
"فانظر أولاً: أجدير أنت بأن تتزكّى؟ وأن تكون للعطاء أداة؟فالحق أن الحياة هي التي تعطي الحياة، ولست أنت، يا من تظن أن مُعطٍ، سوى شاهد." -Kahlil Gibran
"كل رجل يحب امرأتين : واحدة يخلقها خياله ، والثانية لم تخلق بعد" -Kahlil Gibran
"Love...it surrounds every being and extends slowly to embrace all that shall be." -Kahlil Gibran
"And look into space; you shall see Him walking in the cloud, outstretching His arms in the lightning and descending in rain." -Kahlil Gibran
"يجيئك الدهر على حين غفلة ويحدق بك بأعين مستديرة مخيفة ويقبض على عنقك بأضافر محددة ويطرحك بقساوة على التراب ويدوسك بأقدامه الحديدية و يذهب ظاحكا ثم لا يلبث أن يعود إليك نادما مستغفرا فينتشلك بأكفه الحريرية و يغني لك نشيد الأمل فينزل بك مصائب كثيرة ومتاعب أليمة تأتيك مع خيالات الليل تضمحل أمامك بمجيئ الصباح وأنت شاعر بعزيمتك متمسك بآمالك." -Kahlil Gibran
"Verily all things move within your being in constant half embrace, the desired and the dreaded, the repugnant and the cherished, the pursued and that which you would escape.These things move within you as lights and shadows in pairs that cling.And when the shadow fades and is no more, the light that lingers becomes a shadow to another light.And thus your freedom when it loses its fetters becomes itself the fetter of a greater freedom." -Kahlil Gibran
"And When he speaks to you believe in him," -Kahlil Gibran
"من يبيعني فكرا جميلا بقنطار ذهب؟ من يأخذ قبضة من الجواهر بدقيقة محبة؟ من يعطيني عينا ترى الجمال ويأخذ خزائني؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"إن المدنية الحاضرة قد أنمت مدارك المرأة قليلًا ، ولكنها أكثرت أوجاعهابتعميم مطامع الرجل ، كانت المرأة بالأمس خادمة سعيدة فصارت اليوم سيدة تعسة . كانت بالأمس عمياء تسير في نور النهار ، فأصبحت مبصرة تسير في ظلمة الليل ، كانت جميلة بجهلها فاضلة ببساطتها قوية بضعفها ، فصارت قبيحة بتفنُّنها سطحيّة بمداركها بعيدة عن القلب بمعارفها . فهل يجيء يوم يجتمع في المرأة الجمال بالمعرفة والتفنن بالفضيلة ، وضعف الجسد بقوة النفس ؟ أنا من القائلين إن الارتقاء الروحي سنَّة في البشر ، والتقرب من الكمال شريعة بطيئة لكنها فعالة ، فإذا كانت المرأة قد ارْتقت بشيء وتأخرت بشيء آخر ؛ فلأن العقبات التي تُبلغنا قمة الجبل لا تخلو من مكامن اللصوص وكهوف الذئاب . ففي هذا الجبل الشبيه بالغيبوبة التي تتقدم اليقظة ، في هذا الجبل القابض بكفيه على تراب الأجيال الغابرة وبزور الأجيال الآتية ، في هذا الجبل الغريب بميوله وأمانيه لا تخلو مدينة من امرأة ترمز بوجودها عن ابنة المستقبل ." -Kahlil Gibran
"Let there be spaces in your togetherness, And let the winds of the heavens dance between you. Love one another but make not a bond of love: Let it rather be a moving sea between the shores of your souls." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن رؤساء الدين في الشرق لا يكتفون بما يحصلون عليه من المجد والسؤدد بل يفعلون كل ما في وسعهم ليجعلوا أنسباءهم في مقدمة الشعب ومن المستبدين به والمستدرين قواه وأمواله، إن مجد الأمير ينتقل بالإرث إلى ابنه البكر بعد موته أما مجد الرئيس الديني فينتقل بالعدوى إلى الإخوة وأبناء الأخوة في حياته، وهكذا يصبح الإنسان كأفاعي البحر التي تقبض على الفريسة بمقابض كثيرة وتمتص دماءها بأفواه عديدة." -Kahlil Gibran
"An exaggeration is a truth that has lost it's temper." -Kahlil Gibran
": لا تدعوا طبيبًا ليطيل بمساحيقه ساعات سجني ، لأن أيام العبودية قد مضت ، فطلبت روحي حرية الفضاء ، ولا تدعوا كاهنًا إلى جانب فراشي ، لأن تعازيمه لا تكفر عن ذنوبي إن كنت خاطئًا ، ولا تسرع بي إلى الجنة إن كنت بارًّا . إن إرادة البشر لا تغير مشيئة الله ، كما أن المنجّمين لا يحولون مسير النجوم . أما بعد موتي فليفعل الأطباء والكهان ما شاءوا ، فاللجّة تنادي اللجة ، أما السفينة فتظل سائرة حتى تبلغ الساحل …" -Kahlil Gibran
"And alone and without his nest shall the eagle fly across the sun." -Kahlil Gibran
"العلم و الدين متفقان أبداً .. اما العلم و المذهب فلن يتفقا ." -Kahlil Gibran
"ما أكثر النِّساء اللواتي يستعرْن قلب الرجل وما أقل اللواتي يحتفظْن به." -Kahlil Gibran
"je dormis et rêvai que la vie n'était que joie. je m'éveillai et vis que la vie était service. je servis et vis que le service était joie" -Kahlil Gibran
"ألم تسمعي متكلماً مذ جئت إلى هذا المكان ــ أو لم تسمعي كل ما قلته مذ خرجنا إلى الحديقة؟ إن نفسك التي تسمع همس الأزهار وأغاني السكينة تستطيع أن تسمع صراخ روحي وضجيج قبلي"".فحجبت وجهها بيديها ثم قالت بصوت متقطع ""قد سمعتك. نعم سمعتك.. سمعت صوتاً صارخاً خارجاً من أحشاء الليل وضجة هائلة منبثقة من قلب النهار"".فقلت بسرعة وقد نسيت ماضي حياتي ونسيت كياني ونسيت كل شيء ولم أعرف سوى سلمى ولا أشعر بغير وجودها ""وأنا قد سمعتك يا سلمى ــ سمعت نغمة عظيمة محيية جارحة تتموج لها دقائق الفضاء وتهتز بارتعاشها أسس الأرض"".فأغمضت سلمى أجفانها وظهر على شفتيها القرمزيتين خيال ابتسامة محزنة ثم همست قائلة ""قد عرفت الآن بأنه يوجد شيء أعلى من السماء، وأعمق من البحر، وأقوى من الحياة والموت والزمن. قد عرفت الآن ما لم أكن أعرفه بالأمس ولا أحلم به""." -Kahlil Gibran
"الا ان بين العقول مساجلة وبين الأفكار تبادلاً قد لا يتناوله الإدراك الحسي ولكن من ذا الذي يستطيع نفيه بتاتاً من ابناء الوطن الواحد ؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"Yet you shall not deplore having known blindness, nor regret having been deafFor in that day you shall know the hidden purposes in all things,And you shall bless darkness as you would bless light." -Kahlil Gibran
"Solitude is a silent storm that breaks down all our dead branches. Yet it sends our living roots deeper into the living heart of the living earth." -Kahlil Gibran
"وإذا غنّيتم حتّى كالملائكة، وكنتم لا تحبّون ما تغنّون، فإنّكم بغنائكم تصمّون آذان الناس دون أَصوات النهار، ودون أَصوات الليل." -Kahlil Gibran
"الكلمات طليقة من حدود الزمان. فلتنطق بها أو فلتكتبها عارفا أنها أزلية" -Kahlil Gibran
"Long ago there was a man that was crucified for being too loving and too lovable.And strange to relate I met him thrice yesterday. The first time he was asking a policeman to not take a prostitute to prison; the second time he was drinking wine with an outcast; and the third time he was having a fist-fight with a promoter inside a church" -Kahlil Gibran
"Biarkanlah ada jarak di antara kebersamaan anda." -Kahlil Gibran
"I said to Life, I would hear Death speak. And Life raised her voice a little higher and said, You hear him now." -Kahlil Gibran
"ON CHILDREN And a woman who held a babe against her bosom said, 'Speak to us of Children.' And he said: Your children are not your children. They are the sons and daughters of Life's longing for itself. They come through you but not from you, And though they are with you, yet they belong not to you. You may give them your love but not your thoughts. For they have their own thoughts. You may house their bodies but not their souls, For their souls dwell in the house of tomorrow, which you cannot visit, not even in your dreams. You may strive to be like them, but seek not to make them like you. For life goes not backward nor tarries with yesterday. You are the bows from which your children as living arrows are sent forth. The archer sees the mark upon the path of the infinite, and He bends you with His might that His arrows may go swift and far. Let your bending in the archer's hand be for gladness; For even as he loves the arrow that flies, so He loves also the bow that is stable." -Kahlil Gibran
"حين يستخفك الفرج ، راجع إلى أعماق قلبك ، فترى أنك في الحقيقة تفرح بما كان يوما مصدر حزنك. وحين يغمرك الحزن تأمل قلبك من جديد ، فسترى أنك في الحقيقة تبكي مما كان يوما مصدر بهجتك." -Kahlil Gibran
"وليس بين أفراح الحياة ما يضارع فرح المرأة العاقر عندما تهيئها النواميس الأزلية لتصيِّرها أمًّا . كل ما في يقظة الربيع من الجمال ، وكل ما في مجيء الفجر من المسرة يجتمع بين أضلع المرأة التي حَرَمَها الله ثم أعطاها . لا يوجد نور أشد سطوعًا وأكثر لمعانًا من الأشعة التي يبعثها الجنين السجين في ظلمة الأحشاء ." -Kahlil Gibran
"Love possesses not nor would it be possessed, for love is sufficient unto love. And think not you can direct the course of love; for love, if it finds you worthy, directs your course." -Kahlil Gibran
"من وراء جدران الحاضر , على مسرح الأجيال الأتية , رأيت الجمال عريساً والنفس عروساً والحياة كلها ليلة القدر." -Kahlil Gibran
"So the wicked and the weak cannot fall lower than the lowest which is in you also." -Kahlil Gibran
"The teacher who walks in the shadow of the temple, among his followers, gives not of his wisdom but rather of his faith and his lovingness." -Kahlil Gibran
"و لا الجمال الصورة التي تودون لو تبصرونها، أو الأنشودة التي تتمنون أن تسمعونهابل هو بالأحرى صورة تبصرونها و أعينكم مطبقة، و نشيد تسمعونه و آذانكم مغلقة" -Kahlil Gibran
"I have yet to meet an ignorant man whose roots are not embedded in my soul." -Kahlil Gibran
"I only speak to you in words of that which you yourselves know in thought." -Kahlil Gibran
"اللؤلؤة هيكل شاده الألم حول حبة من رمل.ترى أي شوق شاد أبداننا وحول أية حبات؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"المحبة والجهالة لا تلتقيان." -Kahlil Gibran
"فالمحبة هي الحرية الوحيدة في هذا العالم ؛ لأنها ترفع النفس إلى مقام سامٍ لا تبلغه شرائع البشر وتقاليدهم ، ولا تسوده نواميس الطبيعة وأحكامها ." -Kahlil Gibran
"And what is it to work with love?It is to weave the cloth with threads drawn from your heart, even as if your beloved were to wear that cloth.It is to build a house with affection, even as if your beloved were to dwell in that house.It is to sow seeds with tenderness and reap the harvest with joy, even as if your beloved were to eat the fruit.It is to charge all things you fashion with a breath of your own spirit,And to know that all the blessed dead are standing about you and watching." -Kahlil Gibran
"And what is fear of need but need itself?" -Kahlil Gibran
"I existed from all eternity and, behold, I am here; and I shall exist till the end of time, for my being has no end." -Kahlil Gibran
"Stand together yet not too near together:For the pillars of the temples stand apart,And the oak tree and the cypress grow not in each others shadow." -Kahlil Gibran
"You are good in countless ways, and you are not evil when you are not good, you are only loitering and sluggard." -Kahlil Gibran
"I cannot tarry longer.The sea that calls all things unto her calls me" -Kahlil Gibran
"لا تنسي وأنت تعطي أن تدير ظهرك عن من تعطيه كي لا تري حيائه عاريا أمام عينيك" -Kahlil Gibran
"When you work you fulfill a part of earth's furthest dream, assigned to you when your dream was born" -Kahlil Gibran
"Then he looked at me, and the noontide of His eyes was upon me. and He said: 'You have my lovers, and yet I alone love you. Other men love themselves in your nearness. I love you in you self. Other men see a beauty in you that shall fade away sooner than their own years. But I see in you a beauty that shall not fade away, and in the autumn of your days that beauty shall not be afraid to gaze at itself in the mirror, and it shall not be offended. 'I alone love the unseen in you." -Kahlil Gibran
"Half of what I say is meaningless, but I say it so that the other half may reach you." -Kahlil Gibran
"And how shall you punish those whose remorse is already greater than their misdeeds? Is not remorse the justice which is administered by that very law which you would fain serve? Yet you cannot lay remorse upon the innocent nor lift it from the heart of the guilty. Unbidden shall it call in the night, that men may wake and gaze upon themselves." -Kahlil Gibran
"The deeper that sorrow carves into your being, the more joy you can contain. Is not the cup that holds your wine the very cup that was burned in the potter's oven? And is not the lute that soothes your spirit the very wood that was hollowed with knives?" -Kahlil Gibran
"We have heard her shouting among the mountains,""And with her cries came the sound of hoofs, and the beating of wings and the roaring of lions." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن المرأة التي تمنحها الآلهة جمال النفس مشفوعاً بجمال الجسد هي حقيقة ظاهرة غامضة نفهمها بالمحبة ونلمسها بالطهر، وعندما نحاول وصفها بالكلام تختفي عن بصائرنا وراء ضباب الحيرة والالتباس." -Kahlil Gibran
"But you are life and you are the veil." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن كنت ممن تستميله الكتابة فأنت بحاجة إلىالمعرفة والفن والموسيقى - معرفة موسيقى الكلمات وفن البساطة وسحر محبة قرَّائك." -Kahlil Gibran
"ولعمري انكم لمعلقون مثل كفتيْ الميزان بين احزانكم وافراحكم . ويوم تفرغ منكم النفوس تثبت حالكم ؛ إذ تتساوى الكفتان" -Kahlil Gibran
"قد جئت لأودعك يا حبيبي ، فليكن وداعنا عظيمًا وهائلًا مثل حبنا ، ليكن وداعنا كالنار التي تصهر الذهب لتجعله أشد لمعانًا ." -Kahlil Gibran
"We often sing lullabyes to our children that we ourselves may sleep." -Kahlil Gibran
"لو لم يكن الوجود أفضل من العدم لما كان الوجود" -Kahlil Gibran
"Think about it. The selfsame well from which your laughter now rises was once filled with your tears. How else can it be? The deeper sorrow carves into your being, the more joy you can contain." -Kahlil Gibran
"لا تعطوا الرجل الكبير بل خذوا منه وهكذا تكرمونه." -Kahlil Gibran
"الحق يحتاج إلى رجلين .. رجل ينطق به ورجل يفهمه." -Kahlil Gibran
"راحة الشيوخ بين أجنحة الموت الناعمة." -Kahlil Gibran
"أما الآن فقد عرفت أن الهنيهة الحاضرة كل الزمن بكل مافي الزمن مما يُرجي ويُنجز ويتحقق" -Kahlil Gibran
"والدين في الناس حقلٌ ليس يزرعهُ .. غير الأولى لهم في زرعهِ وطرُمِن آملٍ بنعيم الخلدِ مبتشرٍ.. ومِن جهول يخافُ النار تستعرُفالقومُ لولا عقاب البعثِ ما عبدوا رباً .. ولولا الثوابُ المرتجى كفرواكأنما الدينُ ضربٌ من متاجرهمْ .. إن واظبوا ربحوا أو أهملوا خسروا" -Kahlil Gibran
"Love is the only freedom in this world, because it elevates the soul to a lofty station that cannot be attained by the laws and customs of human beings or conquered by the laws of nature." -Kahlil Gibran
"والجمال ليس حاجة بل هو نشوة. وما هو بفم عطشان ، ولا يد ممدودة فارغة ، إنما هو قلب مشتعل ونفس مفتونة. وما هو بالصورة التي تود أن تراها ، ولا الأغنية التي تود أن تسمعها ، وإنما هو صورة تراها وإن أغمضت العين ، وأغنية تسمعها وإن سددت الأذن." -Kahlil Gibran
"إذا أومأ الحب إليكم فاتبعون ، وإن كان وعر المسالك ، زلق المنحدر. وإذا بسط عليكم جناحيه فأسلموا له القياد ، وإن جرحكم سيفه المستور بين قوادمه ." -Kahlil Gibran
"الظاهر أن "" العنصر الشفاف"" فينا يقوم بكثير من الأعمال والمآتي على غير معرفة منا , فهو يسبح مرفرفاً إلى الجهة الثانية من الأرض ونحن في غرفة صغيرة نقرأ جرائد المساء. ويزور الأصدقاء البعيدين ونحن نجالس ونحدث الأصدقاء القريبين، ويسير في حقول وغابات بعيدة سحرية لم ترها عين بشري ونحن نسكب الشاي في فنجان سيدة تخبرنا عن الاحتفال بعرس ابنتها ." -Kahlil Gibran
"أن الإنسان وإن وُلد حرًّا يظل عبدًا لقساوة الشرائع التي سنها آباؤه وأجداده ، وأن القضاء الذي نتوهمه سرًّا علويًّا هو استسلام اليوم إلى مآتي الأمس ، وخضوع الغد إلى ميول اليوم ." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن أموال الآباء تكون في أكثر المواطن مجلبة لشقاء البنين ؛ تلك الخزائن الواسعة التي يملأها نشاط الوالد وحرص الأم تنقلب حبوسًا ضيقة مظلمة لنفوس الورثة . ذلك الإله العظيم الذي يعبده الناس بشكل الدينار ينقلب شيطانًا مخيفًا يعذب النفوس ويميت القلوب ." -Kahlil Gibran
"Fill each other's cup but drink not from one cup." -Kahlil Gibran
"المحبة تهبط على أرواحنا بإيعاز من الله لا بطلب من البشر !" -Kahlil Gibran
"And ever has it been that love knows not its own depth until the hour of separation." -Kahlil Gibran
"A young woman stepped forward from the throng and asked, ""0' great prophet, tell us how we might find love that is unconditional, unwavering and unending."" The prophet did not answer right away. He looked off into the distance, gathering his thoughts. Silence descended upon the crowd. Then he turned his gaze upon the young woman and said, ""Get a dog." -Kahlil Gibran
"كذا تَبيد الشعوب بين اللصوص والمحتالين مثلما تفنى القطعان بين أنياب الذئاب وقواطع الجزّارين ، وهكذا تستسلم الأمم إلى ذوي النفوس المعوجّة والأخلاق الفاسدة ، فتتراجع إلى الوراء ثم تهبط إلى الحضيض ، فيمر الدّهر ويسحقها بأقدامه مثلما تسحق مطارق الحديد آنية الفخّار ." -Kahlil Gibran
"أن الغربيين كانوا في الماضي يتناولون ما نطبخه , فيمضغونه , ويبتلعونه محوّلين الصالح منه الى كيانهم الغربي , أما الشرقيون في الوقت الحاضر فيتناولون ما يطبخه الغربيون ويبتلعونه , ولكنه لا يتحول الى كيانهم الشرقي , بل يحوّلهم الى شبه غربيين ." -Kahlil Gibran
"When the treasure-keeper lifts you to weigh his gold and his silver, needs must your joy or your sorrow rise or fall." -Kahlil Gibran
"But the hunter was also the hunted,For many of my arrows left my bow only to seek my own breast..." -Kahlil Gibran
"Man's needs change, but not his love, nor his desire that his love should satisfy his needs." -Kahlil Gibran
"أيها المعلم، سنكون خيوطًا فى يديك وعلى نولك فلتنسجنا ثوباً إن أردت، فسنكون قطعة فى ثوب العلى المتعالى" -Kahlil Gibran
"الإيمان واحة مخضّرة الجوانب في صحراء القلب لا تبلغ لها قوافل الفكر" -Kahlil Gibran
"ويقولون لك أكثر من ذلك لأن أشباح جدودهم مازالت حية في أجسادهم فهم مثل كهوف الاودية الخالية يُرجعون صدى أصوات و لا يفهمون معناها.هم لا يعرفون شريعة الله في مخلوقاته، ولا يفقهون مفاد الدين الحقيقي ، ولا يعلمون متى يكون الإنسان خاطئا أو بارا ، بل ينظرون بأعينهم الضئيلة الى ظواهر الأعمال ولا يرون أسرارها فيقضون بالجهل ويدينون بالعماوة ويستوي أمامهم المجرم والبريء ، والصالح والشرير . فويل لمن يقضي وويل لمن يدين.." -Kahlil Gibran
"And when you work with love you bind your self to yourself, and to one another, and to God." -Kahlil Gibran
"لان مشيئة السماء ليست بان اقطع جناحي بيدي وارتمي علي الرماد حاجبة راسي بساعدي ساكبة حشاشي من اجفاني قائلة هذا نصيبي من الحياة ان السماء لا تريد ان اصرف العمر صارخة متوجعة في الليالي قائلة متي يجيء الفجر وعندما يجيء الفجر اقول متي ينقضي هذا النهار ان السماء لا تريد ان يكون الانسان تعسا لانها وضعت في اعماقه الميل الي السعاده لانه بسعادة الانسان يتمجد الله" -Kahlil Gibran
"Kita berdoa kalau kesusahan dan membutuhkan sesuatu,Mestinya kita juga berdoa dalam kegembiraan besar dan saat rezeki melimpah." -Kahlil Gibran
"You are the bows from which your children as living arrows are sent forth." -Kahlil Gibran
"You tell me that you fear love; why, my little one? Do you fear the light of the sun? Do you fear the ebb and flow of the sea? Do you fear the dawning of the day? Do you fear the advent of spring? I wonder why you fear love? ... do not fear love; do not fear love, friend of my heart. We must surrender to it in spite of what it may bring in the way of pain, of desolation, of longing and in spite of all perplexity and bewilderment." -Kahlil Gibran
"المتعة أنشودة حريةلكنها ليست الحرية" -Kahlil Gibran
"A voice cannot carry the tongue and the lips that gave it wings. Alone must it seek the ether." -Kahlil Gibran
"Said one oyster to a neighboring oyster, ""I have a great pain within me. It is heavy and round and I am in distress"". And the other oyster replied with a haughty complacence, ""Praise be to the heavens and to the sea, I have no pain within me. I am well and whole within an without"".At that moment, a crab was passing by and heard the two oysters, and he said to the one who was well and whole both within and without, ""Yes, you are well and whole; but the pain that your neighbor bears is a pearl of exceeding beauty""." -Kahlil Gibran
"And he said, 'The joy of scaring is a deep and lasting one, and I never tire of it.' Said I, after a minute of thought, 'It is true; for I too have known that joy.' Said he, 'Only those who are stuffed with straw can know it." -Kahlil Gibran
"Theban who acquires his wealth by inheritance builds his mansion with the weak poor's money. The clergyman erects his temple upon the graves and bones of the devoted worshippers. The prince grasps the fellah's arms while the priest empties his pocket; the ruler looks upon the sobs of the fields with frowning face, and the bishop consoles them with his smile, and between the frown of the tiger and the smile of the wolf the flock is perished; the ruler claims himself as king if the law, and the priest as the representative if god, and between these two, the bodies are destroyed and the souls wither into nothing." -Kahlil Gibran
"A pearl is a temple built by pain around a grain of sand.What longing built our bodies and around what grains?" -Kahlil Gibran
"Human society has surrendered for seventy centuries to corrupt laws and is no longer able to perceive the true meaning of the sublime, primary, and eternal codes of behaviour. Human vision has become accustomed to looking at the light of feeble candles and can no longer stare at the light of the sun. Each generation has inherited the psychological diseases and maladies of the others, and so these have become universal. They have become attributes inseparable from humanity, so that people no longer look upon them as diseases but consider them natural and noble qualities revealed by God to Adam. And when a person appears among them who lacks these traits, they see that individual as flawed and deprived of spiritual perfections. ... They reckon the upright as criminals and those with self respect as rebels." -Kahlil Gibran
"Come, let us drink the last raindrop tears from a narcissus cup and fill our souls with the songs of larks." -Kahlil Gibran
"For the pillars of the temple stand apart," -Kahlil Gibran
"I hope I will live long and be able to do some things worthy of giving to you who is giving so much to me." -Kahlil Gibran
"They give as in yonder valley the myrtle breathes its fragrance into space." -Kahlil Gibran
"The truly great man is he who would master no one, and who would be mastered by none." -Kahlil Gibran
"If you can see only what light reveals and hear only what sound announces,Then in truth you do not see nor do you hear." -Kahlil Gibran
"And beauty is not a need but an ecstasy." -Kahlil Gibran
"أمّا أنا فإننى أضنُّ بجحيمى أن يزوره من كان على شاكلتك؛ لأننى أفضل أن أكون فى جحيمى وحدى." -Kahlil Gibran
"you are good when you strive to give of yourself." -Kahlil Gibran
"The silence of aloneness reveals to their eyes their naked selves and they would escape." -Kahlil Gibran
"المرء إن لم تحمل به الكآبة و يتمخض به اليأس وتضعه المحبة في مخد الأحلام تظل حياته كصفحة بيضاء في كتاب الكيان . ." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن اللذين لم يهبهم الحب أجنحة لا يستطيعون أن يطيروا إلى ما وراء الغيوم ليروا ذلك العالم السحري الذي طافت فيه روحي وروح سلمى في تلك الساعة المحزنة بأفراحها المفرحة بأوجاعها. إن اللذين لم يتخذهم الحب أتباعاً لا يسمعون الحب متكلماً." -Kahlil Gibran
"Keep me away from the wisdom which does not cry, the philosophy which does not laugh." -Kahlil Gibran
"A madman is not less a musician than you or myself; only the instrument on which he plays is a little out of tune." -Kahlil Gibran
"Let there be no scales to weigh your un-known treasure;And seek not the depths of your knowledge with staff or sounding line.For self is a sea boundless and measureless." -Kahlil Gibran
"And if you cannot work with love but only with distaste, it is better than you should leave your work and sit at the gate of the temple and take alms of those who work with joy." -Kahlil Gibran
"كثير الرغبات طويل الحياة , إن عصفورا واحدا على الشجر خير من عشرة في اليد" -Kahlil Gibran
"A sense of humour is a sense of proportion." -Kahlil Gibran
"One may not reach the dawn save by the path of the night." -Kahlil Gibran
"الفردوس قائم هناك وراء ذلك الباب في الغرفة المجاورة و لكنني أضعت مفتاح الباب و لعلي لم أضعه بل وضعته في غير موضعه" -Kahlil Gibran
"The self same well from which your laughs rises was oftentimes filled with your tears." -Kahlil Gibran
"Would the valleys were your streets, and the green paths your alleys, that you might seek one another through vineyards, and come with the fragrance of the earth in your garments." -Kahlil Gibran
"I am not strong enough for life's pleasure and sweetness, because a bird with broken wings cannot fly in the spacious sky. The eyes that are accustomed to the dim light of a candle are not strong enough to stare at the sun." -Kahlil Gibran
"لو اصغت الطبيعة الى مواعظنا في القناعة لما جرى فيها نهر الى البحر ولما تحول شتاء الى ربيع" -Kahlil Gibran
"إن كنت لا تسمع إلا ما تعزفه الأصوات ولا ترى إلا ما يبعثه النور، فأنت في الحقيقة لا تسمع ولا ترى" -Kahlil Gibran
"سأرفع في وادي ظل الموت تمثالًا للحب وأعبده . سأتخذ الحب سميرًا وأسمعه منشدًا وأشربه خمرًا وألبسه ثوبًا . عند الفجر سينبّهني الحب من رقادي ويسير أمامي إلى البرية البعيدة . وعند الظهيرة سيقودني إلى ظل الأشجار ، فأربض مع العصافير المحتمية من حرارة الشمس . وفي المساء سيوقفني أمام المغرب ويسمعني نغمة وداع الطبيعة للنور ، ويريني أشباح السكينة سابحة في الفضاء . وفي الليل سيعانقني فأنام حالمًا بالعوالم العلوية حيث تقطن أرواح العشاق والشعراء . وفي الربيع سأمشي والحب جنبًا لجنب مترنمين بين التلول والمنحدرات متبعين آثار أقدام الحياة المخططة بالبنفسج والأقحوان ، شاربين بقايا الأمطار بكؤوس النرجس والزنبق . وفي الصيف سأتكئ والحب ساندين رأسينا إلى أغمار القش مفترشين الأعشاب ملتحفين السماء ساهرين مع القمر والنجوم . وفي الخريف سأذهب والحب إلى الكروم ، فنجلس بقرب المعاصر ناظرين إلى الأشجار وهي تخلع أثوابها المذهبة متأملين بأسراب الطيور الراحلة إلى الساحل . وفي الشتاء سأجلس والحب بقرب الموقد تاليين حكايات الأجيال مرددين أخبار الأمم والشعوب . وفي أيام الشبيبة سيكون لي الحب مهذبًا ، وفي الكهولة عضدًا ، وفي الشيخوخة مؤنسًا . سيظل الحب معي يا سلمى إلى نهاية العمر ، إلى أن يجيء الموت ، إلى أن تجمعني بك قبضة الله ." -Kahlil Gibran
"Benditos sean los ladrones que me robaron mis máscaras." -Kahlil Gibran
"ان الذي يستطيع ان يضع اصبعه على خط الفاصل بين الخير والشر ، يستطيع في الحقيقة ان يلامس ثوب الله." -Kahlil Gibran
"And then I shall come to you, a boundless drop to a boundless ocean." -Kahlil Gibran
"عند كلُّ عظيمٍ مِمَّنْ عرفتُهم أمرٌ صغير هو الذي حماهم من الخمول أو الجنون أو الإنتحار٠" -Kahlil Gibran
"But I say that even as the holy and the righteous cannot rise beyond the highest which is in each one of you,So the wicked and the weak cannot fall lower than the lowest which is in you also." -Kahlil Gibran
"how cruel is man's ignorance!" -Kahlil Gibran
"Sedikit pengetahuan yang dilaksanakan jauh lebih berharga daripada banyak pengetahuan tapi tidak digunakan." -Kahlil Gibran
"أنتم تستطيعون أن تمنحوهم محبتكم، ولكنكم لا تقدرون أن تغرسوا فيهم بذور أفكاركم، .لأن لهم أفكارًا خاصة بهم" -Kahlil Gibran
"إن دمعة واحدة تتلمع عن وجنة شيخ متجعدة لهي أشد تأثيرًا في النفس من كل ما تهرقه أجفان الفتيان.إن دموع الشباب الغزيرة هي مما يفيض من جوانب القلوب المترعة. أما دموع الشيوخ فهي فضلات العمر تنسكب من الأحداق. هي بقية الحياة في الأجساد الواهنة، الدموع في أجفان الشبيبة كقطرات الندى على أوراق الوردة. أما الدموع على وجنة الشيخوخة فأشبه بأوراق الخريف المصفرة التي تنثرها الأرياح وتذويها عندما يقترب شتاء الحياة." -Kahlil Gibran
"In the forests, there is no religion. No, not even ugly blasphemy there." -Kahlil Gibran
"Love that comes between the naivete and awakening of youth satisfies itself with possessing, and grows with embraces. But Love which is born in the firmament's lap and has descended with the night's secrets is not contented with anything but eternity and immortality." -Kahlil Gibran
"ولم نخَف قط عين الرقيب ولا شعرنا بوخز الضمير ؛ لأن النفس إذا تطهّرت بالنار واغتسلت بالدموع تترفع عما يدعوه الناس عيبًا وعارًا ، وتتحرر من عبودية الشرائع والنواميس التي سنّتها التقاليد لعواطف القلب البشري ، وتقف برأس مرفوع أمام عروش الآلهة . إن الجامعة البشرية قد استسلمت سبعين قرنًا إلى الشرائع الفاسدة ، فلم تعد قادرة على إدراك معاني النواميس العلوية الأولية الخالدة . وقد تعودت بصيرة الإنسان النظر إلى ضوء الشموع الضئيلة ، فلم تعد تستطيع أن تحدق إلى نور الشمس . لقد توارثت الأجيال الأمراض والعاهات النفسية بعضها عن بعض حتى أصبحت عمومية ، بل صارت من الصفات الملازمة للإنسان ، فلم يعد الناس ينظرون إليها كعاهات وأمراض ، بل يعتبرونها كخلال طبيعية نبيلة أنزلها الله على آدم ، فإذا ما ظهر بينهم فرد خالٍ منها ظنوه ناقصًا محرومًا من الكمالات الروحية" -Kahlil Gibran
"Beauty And a poet said, 'Speak to us of Beauty.' Where shall you seek beauty, and how shall you find her unless she herself be your way and your guide?  And how shall you speak of her except she be the weaver of your speech?  The aggrieved and the injured say, 'Beauty is kind and gentle. Like a young mother half-shy of her own glory she walks among us.' And the passionate say, 'Nay, beauty is a thing of might and dread. Like the tempest she shakes the earth beneath us and the sky above us.' The tired and the weary say, 'beauty is of soft whispering s. She speaks in our spirit. Her voice yields to our silences like a faint light that quivers in fear of the shadow.' But the restless say, 'We have heard her shouting among the mountains, And with her cries came the sound of hoofs, and the beating of wings and the roaring of lions.' At night the watchmen of the city say, 'Beauty shall rise with the dawn from the east.' And at noontide the toilers and the wayfarers say, 'we have seen her leaning over the earth from the windows of the sunset.' In winter say the snow-bound, 'She shall come with the spring leaping upon the hills.' And in the summer heat the reapers say, 'We have seen her dancing with the autumn leaves, and we saw a drift of snow in her hair.' All these things have you said of beauty. Yet in truth you spoke not of her but of needs unsatisfied, And beauty is not a need but an ecstasy. It is not a mouth thirsting nor an empty hand stretched forth, But rather a heart enflamed and a soul enchanted. It is not the image you would see nor the song you would hear, But rather an image you see though you close your eyes and a song you hear though you shut your ears. It is not the sap within the furrowed bark, nor a wing attached to a claw, But rather a garden forever in bloom and a flock of angels for ever in flight. People of Orphalese, beauty is life when life unveils her holy face. But you are life and you are the veil. Beauty is eternity gazing at itself in a mirror. But you are eternity and you are the mirror" -Kahlil Gibran
"When thou ascendest to thy Heaven I descend to my Hell—even then thou callest to me across the unbridgeable gulf, 'My companion, my comrade,' and I call back to thee, 'My comrade, my companion' —for I would not have thee see my Hell. The flame would burn thy eyesight and the smoke would crowd thy nostrils. And I love my Hell too well to have thee visit it. I would be in Hell alone." -Kahlil Gibran
"A great singer is he who sings our silences" -Kahlil Gibran
"Your joy is your sorrow unmasked. And the selfsame well from which your laughter rises was oftentimes filled with your tears. And how else can it be? The deeper that sorrow carves into your being, the more joy you can contain. Is not the cup that holds your wine the very cup that was burned in the potter's oven? And is not the lute that soothes your spirit the very wood that was hollowed with knives? When you are joyous, look deep into your heart and you shall find it is only that which has given you sorrow that is giving you joy. When you are sorrowful, look again in your heart, and you shall see that in truth you are weeping for that which has been your delight. Some of you say, 'Joy is greater than sorrow,' and others say, 'Nay, sorrow is the greater.' But I say unto you, they are inseparable. Together they come, and when one sits alone with you at your board, remember that the other is asleep upon your bed. Verily you are suspended like scales between your sorrow and your joy. Only when you are empty are you at standstill and balanced. When the treasure-keeper lifts you to weigh his gold and his silver, needs must your joy or your sorrow rise or fall." -Kahlil Gibran
"[Wer fällt] fällt für die vor ihm, die obgleich schneller und sicherer im Schritt, den Stein des Anstoßes nicht entfernten." -Kahlil Gibran
"قل لمن لا يصرف الأيام على مسرح الأحلام كان عبد للأيام." -Kahlil Gibran
"But I say to you that when you work you fulfill a part of earth's furthest dream, assigned to you when that dream was born," -Kahlil Gibran
"You were born together, and together you shall be for evermore." -Kahlil Gibran
"Bangun jalanmu hari ini karena hari esok terlalu tak pasti untuk dijalani" -Kahlil Gibran
"Your children are not your children.They are the sons and daughters of Life's longing for itself.They come through you but not from you,And though they are with you yet they belong not to you.You may give them your love but not your thoughts, For they have their own thoughts.You may house their bodies but not their souls,For their souls dwell in the house of tomorrow, which you cannot visit, not even in your dreams.You may strive to be like them, but seek not to make them like you.For life goes not backward nor tarries with yesterday.You are the bows from which your childrenas living arrows are sent forth.The archer sees the mark upon the path of the infinite, and He bends you with His might that His arrows may go swift and far.Let your bending in the archer's hand be for gladness;For even as He loves the arrow that flies, so He loves also the bow that is stable." -Kahlil Gibran
"Yet in truth you spoke not of her but of needs unsatisfied," -Kahlil Gibran
"الحياة ظلام إلا إذا كان هناك أمل و الأمل ضرير إلا إذا سبقته المعرفة و كل معرفة بلا جدوى إذا لم يرافقها العمل و كل عمل سوف يضيع إذا لم يمتزج بالحب" -Kahlil Gibran
"A voice cannot carry the tongue and the lips that gave it wings." -Kahlil Gibran
"For how can a tyrant rule the free and the proud, but for a tyranny in their own freedom and a shame in their own pride?" -Kahlil Gibran
"And as a single leaf turns not yellow but with the silent knowledge of the whole tree,So the wrong-doer cannot do wrong without the hidden will of you all.Like a procession you walk together towards your god-self.You are the way and the wayfarers.And when one of you falls down he falls for those behind him, a caution against the stumbling stone.Aye,and he falls for those ahead of him,who,though faster and surer of foot,yet removed not the stumbling stone." -Kahlil Gibran
"Chapter23On Prayer" -Kahlil Gibran
"لم أعرف رجلاً عظيما لم يكن في الأساس الذي وضع عليه صرح عظمته بعض الأشياء الصغيرة, و هذه الصغيرات بعينها هي التي حالت بين جميع العظماء و بين الخمول والجنون و الانتحار" -Kahlil Gibran
"انها شبية بالحياة يتمتع بها كل الرجال،و شبيهة بالموت تقهر كل الرجال،و شبيهة بالأبدية تحتضن كل الرجال" -Kahlil Gibran
"For without words, in friendship, all thoughts, all desires, all expectations are born and shared, with joy that is unclaimed." -Kahlil Gibran
"Haven't we heard that obvious beauty is the cause of many hidden distresses and deep suffering? Is not the beautiful moon, that inspires the poets, the same moon that angers the silence of the sea with a terrible roar?" -Kahlil Gibran
"أن المحبة والموت وحدهما يغيران كل شيء" -Kahlil Gibran
"Your hearts know in silence the secrets of the days and nights." -Kahlil Gibran
"بدی همان نیکی است که از گرسنگی به درد آمده است." -Kahlil Gibran
"نحن نتكلم لنخاطب ذواتنا فقط, و لكن كثيرا ما نرفع أصواتنا أكثر مما ينبغي فيسمعنا الاخرون" -Kahlil Gibran
"في الأونة الأخيرة قد تحقق لي وجود رابطة معنوية دقيقة قوية غريبة تختلف بطبيعتها ومزاياها وتأثيرها عن كل رابطة أخرى , فهي أشد وأصلب وأبقى بما لا يقاس من الروابط الدموية والجنينية وحتى الأخلاقية , وليس بين خيوط هذه الرابطة خيط واحد من غزل الايام والليالي التي تمر بين المهد واللحد . وليس بين خيوطها خيط غزلته مقاصد الماضي أو رغائب الحاضر أو أماني المستقبل , فقد تكون موجودة بين أثنين لم يجمعهما الماضي ولا يجمعهما الحاضر - وقد لا يجمعهما المستقبل !" -Kahlil Gibran
"Sing and dance together and be joyous, but let each one of you be alone," -Kahlil Gibran
"إني أرى الناس, وأعرف أنهم قوم طيبون: ومع هذا, ما ان أجلس إلى جانبهم, أو أتحدث إليهم, إلا وأحس بقلق وتململ شيطاني, وبرغبة ما في إيذائهم عقلياً. وعندما يتكلمون, يطير عقلي بجنون, ويرفرف بعنف كطائر أوثقت قدماه بخيط .غليظ" -Kahlil Gibran
"The chemist who can extract from his heart's elements compassion, respect, longing, patience, regret, surprise, and forgiveness and compound them into one can create that atom which is called love." -Kahlil Gibran
"شگفت انگیز ترین چیز این است که من وتو همیشه در سرزمینی نا شناخته برای یکدیگر در کنار همدیگر قدم میزنیم " -Kahlil Gibran
"الحقيقة لا تتجزأ" -Kahlil Gibran
"It is life in quest of life in bodies that fear the grave." -Kahlil Gibran
"When I cry the hills laugh; When I humble myself the flowers rejoice; When I bow, all things are elated. The field and the cloud are lovers And between them I am a messenger of mercy. I quench the thirst of one; I cure the ailment of the other. The voice of thunder declares my arrival; The rainbow announces my departure. I am like earthly life, Which begins at the feet of the mad elements And ends under the upraised wings of death. I emerge from the heard of the sea Soar with the breeze. When I see a field in need, I descend and embrace the flowers and the trees in a million little ways. I touch gently at the windows with my soft fingers, And my announcement is a welcome song all can hear But only the sensitive can understand. The heat in the air gives birth to me, But in turn I kill it, As woman overcomes man with the strength she takes from him. I am the sigh of the sea; The laughter of the field; The tears of heaven. So with love— Sighs from the deep sea of affection; Laughter from the colourful field of the spirit; Tears from the endless heaven of memories." -Kahlil Gibran
"You are the bows from which your children as living arrows are sent forth. The archer sees the mark upon the path of the infinite, and He bends you with His might that His arrows may go swift and far. Let your bending in the Archer's hand be for gladness; For even as He loves the arrow that flies, so He loves also the bow that is stable." -Kahlil Gibran
"أصحاب النبوغ تعساء ، مهما تسامت أرواحهم تظلُّ مكتنفة بغلاف من الدموع ." -Kahlil Gibran
"الجريمة إسم من أسماء الحاجة أو مظهر من مظاهر المرض" -Kahlil Gibran
"إنما أنا ساع للسكينة, تري أي كنز لقيت في ظلها, فأنثره في ثقة و اطمئنان؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"A truth is to be known always, to be uttered sometimes" -Kahlil Gibran
"وقد نفوني الان من جامعتهم وانا راضية لان البشر لا ينفون الا من تمردت روحه الكبيرة علي الظلم والجور ومن لايؤثر النفي علي الاستعباد لا يكون حرا بما في الحرية من الحق والواجب" -Kahlil Gibran
"Your reason and your passion are the rudder and the sails of your seafaring soul" -Kahlil Gibran
"നിങ്ങളുടെ പല്ലുകള്‍ കൊണ്ട് നിങ്ങള്‍ ഒരു ആപ്പിള്‍ ചതയ്ക്കുമ്പോള്‍ നിങ്ങളുടെ ഹൃദയത്തില്‍ അതിനോട് പറയുക :'നിന്റെ വിത്തുകള്‍ എന്റെ ശരീരത്തില്‍ വളരും ''നിന്റെ നാളെയുടെ മൊട്ടുകള്‍ എന്റെ ശരീരത്തില്‍ പുഷ്പിക്കും''നിന്റെ സൌരഭ്യം എന്റെ ശ്വാസമായിരിക്കും ''നമ്മള്‍ ഒരുമിച്ചു എല്ലാ ഋതുക്കളിലും ആഹ്ലാദിക്കും" -Kahlil Gibran
"الحب لا يعطى إلا من نفسه ولا يأخذ إلا من نفسه و الحب لا يملك و لا يطيق أن يكون مملوكاً و حسب" -Kahlil Gibran
"ليس الجود أن تعطيني ما أنا أشدّ منك حاجة إليه ، وإنما الجود أن تعطيني ما أنت أشدّإليه حاجة مني" -Kahlil Gibran
"I am the infinite sea, and all worlds are but grains of sand upon my shore." -Kahlil Gibran
"Of the good in you I can speak, but not of the evil.For what is evil but good tortured by it's own hunger and thirst?Verily when good is hungry it seeks food even in dark caves, and when it thirsts it drinks even of dead waters." -Kahlil Gibran
"You often say, 'I would give, but only to the deserving.' The trees in your orchard say not so, nor the flocks in your pasture. They give that they may live, for to withhold is to perish. Surely he who is worthy to receive his days and his nights is worthy of all else from you." -Kahlil Gibran
"The difficulty we meet with in reaching our goal is the shortest path to it." -Kahlil Gibran
"هل يرحمني الله ويمنحني موهبة الطرش ... فأحيا سعيداً في جنة السكون الأبدي" -Kahlil Gibran
"My friend, I am not what I seem. Seeming is but a garment I wear - a care-woven garment that protects me from thy questionings and thee from my negligence" -Kahlil Gibran
"صدفی به صدف دیگری گفت: « درد عظیمی در درونم دارم. سنگین و گرد است و آزارم میدهد»صدف دیگر با غرور گفت:«آسمان و دریا را شکر که من دردی ندارم. من چه از درون و چه از بیرون سالم سالم ام»درهمان لحظه خرچنگی که از کنارشان می گذشت گفت وگوی آن دو صدف را شنید وبه صدفی که از درون وبیرون سالم بود گفت: «بله سالم و سرحالی اما حاصل درد رفیق ات مرواریدی بسیار زیباست.»ا" -Kahlil Gibran
"رأيت روحاً واحدة سماوية متمثلة أمامي بجسدين يجملهما الشباب ويسربلهما الاتحاد وقد وقف بينهما إله الحب باسطاً جناحيه ليحميهما من لوم الناس وتعنيفهم" -Kahlil Gibran
"الرجل الذي لا يغتفر للمرأة هفواتها الصغيرة , لن يتمتع بفضائلها الكبيرة ..." -Kahlil Gibran
"الزيجة في أيامنا هذه تجارة مضحكة مبكية يتولى أمورها الفتيان وآباء الصبايا ، الفتيان يربحون في أكثر المواطن والآباء يخسرون دائمًا ، أما الصبايا المنتقلات كالسلع من منزل إلى آخر فتزول بهجتهن ، ونظير الأمتعة العتيقة يصير نصيبهن زوايا المنازل حيث الظلمة والفناء البطيء ." -Kahlil Gibran
"Should we all confess our sins to one another we would all laugh at one another for our lack of originality.Should we all reveal our virtues we would also laugh for the same cause." -Kahlil Gibran
"Through the hands of such as these God speaks, and from behind their eyes He smiles upon the earth." -Kahlil Gibran
"Aye, and he falls for those ahead of him, who, though faster and surer of foot, yet removed not the stumbling stone." -Kahlil Gibran
"And if it is for your comfort to pour your darkness into space, it is also for your delight to pour forth the dawning of your heart." -Kahlil Gibran
"أي رجل يخرج عن طائعة رئيس دينه في الشرق ويظل كريماً بين الناس؟ أتعاند العين سهماً ولا تفقد أو تناضل اليد سيفاً ولا تقطع؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"Fill each other's cup but drink not from one cup. Give one another of your bread but eat not from the same loaf. Sing and dance together and be joyous, but let each one of you be alone, Even as the strings of a lute are alone though they quiver with the same music. Give your hearts, but not into each other's keeping. For only the hand of Life can contain your hearts. And stand together yet not too near together: For the pillars of the temple stand apart, And the oak tree and the cypress grow not in each other's shadow." -Kahlil Gibran
"ليس في العالم شهوة لا تتحقق" -Kahlil Gibran
"إن المحبة والجهالة لا تلتقيان ص 50" -Kahlil Gibran
"Paradise is there, behind that door, in the next room; but I have lost the key.Perhaps I have only mislaid it." -Kahlil Gibran
"There are those who give little of the much which they have – and they give it for recognition and their hidden desire makes their gifts unwholesome." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن النفس الحزينةالمتألمةتجد راحة بإنضمامهاإلى نفس آخرى... تماثلها بالشعور وتشاركها بالإحساس مثلما يستأنسالغريب بالغريبفي أرض بعيدة عن وطنهما- فالقلوب التي تدنيها أوجاع الكآبة بعضها من بعض لا تفرقها بهجة الأفراح وبهرجتها" -Kahlil Gibran
"أنا وحدي أحب .. ما لا يرى فيك" -Kahlil Gibran
"IF any of you would bring to judgment the unfaithful wife, Let him also weigh the heart of her husband in scales, and measure his soul with measurements." -Kahlil Gibran
"The eye of a human being is a microscope, which makes the world seem bigger than it really is." -Kahlil Gibran
"كثيراً ما نستعير من الغد لنردّ ديون الأمس" -Kahlil Gibran
"سألتها: ما هذا الجمال؟ فقد تباين الناس بتعريفه ومعرفته مثلما اختلفوا بتمجيده ومحبته. قالت: هو ما كان بنفسك جاذب إليه، هو ما تراه وتود أن تعطي لا أن تأخذ، هو ما شعرت عند ملقاه بأياد مدودة من أعماقك لضمه إلى أعماقك، هو ما تحسبه الأجسام محنه والأرواح منحة، هو ألفة بين الحزن والفرح، هو ما تراه محجوبا وتعرفه مجهولا وتسمعه صامتا، هو قوة تبتدئ في قدس أقداس ذاتك وتنتهي في ما وراء تخيلاتك." -Kahlil Gibran
"The astronomer may speak to you of his understanding of space, but he cannot give you his understanding." -Kahlil Gibran
"Tus hijos no son tus hijos son hijos e hijas de la vida deseosa de si misma. No vienen de ti, sino a través de ti y aunque estén contigo no te pertenecen. Puedes darles tu amor, pero no tus pensamientos, pues, ellos tienen sus propios pensamientos. Puedes abrigar sus cuerpos, pero no sus almas, porque ellas, viven en la casa del mañana, que no puedes visitar ni siquiera en sueños. Puedes esforzarte en ser como ellos, pero no procures hacerlos semejantes a ti porque la vida no retrocede, ni se detiene en el ayer. Tú eres el arco del cual, tus hijos como flechas vivas son lanzados. Deja que la inclinación en tu mano de arquero sea para la felicidad." -Kahlil Gibran
"When you work you are a flute through whose heart the whispering hours turns to music. Which of you would be a reed, dumb and silent, when all else sings together in unison?" -Kahlil Gibran
"How narrow is the vision that exalts the busyness of the ant above the singing of the grasshopper." -Kahlil Gibran
"عندما كنت شجرة في الغاب كنت أزهر في الربيع، وأثمر في الصيف. ولما صرت بشراً بين البشر فلا أجد من يفرح لفرحي ويبتهج لبهجتي أو يغنّي لي، على أنني أفضّل أن أكون بشراً من أن أكون شجراً… عندما كنت شجرة في الغاب كنت أزهر في الربيع، وأثمر في الصيف. ولما صرت بشراً بين البشر فلا أجد من يفرح لفرحي ويبتهج لبهجتي أو يغنّي لي، على أنني أفضّل أن أكون بشراً من أن أكون شجراً…" -Kahlil Gibran
"إن البشر لا يصدقون حكايتنا لأنهم لا يعلمون بأن المحبة هي الزهرة الوحيدة التي تنبت وتنمو بغير معاونة الفصول" -Kahlil Gibran
"شما مي توانيد سيم هاي ساز را باز كنيد، اما كيست كه بتواند چكاوك را از خواندن باز دارد" -Kahlil Gibran
"لست أحب أن أستمع الى غاز يعظ من قهرهم" -Kahlil Gibran
"Ihr gebt nur wenig, wenn ihr von eurem Besitz gebt. - Erst wenn ihr von euch selber gebt, gebt ihr wahrhaft." -Kahlil Gibran
"Have you beauty, that leads the heart from things fashioned of wood and stone to the holy mountain?" -Kahlil Gibran
"إنما اللذة نشيد من أناشيد الحريةو لكنها ليست الحريةو هي أزهار رغباتكمو ليست الثمارو هي غور يتطلع إلى القمةو ليست الغور و لا القمةو هي الطائر المقفوص و قد بسط جناحيهو لكنها ليست الأجنحة التي تلف الفضاء" -Kahlil Gibran
"فكر الله فكان فكره الأول ملاكا, و تكلم الله فكانت كلمته الأولى انساناً" -Kahlil Gibran
"I tell you as well as myself: what we see with our own eyes is nothing other than a cloud concealing what we should perceive with our inner sight, while what we listen to with our ears is merely a ringing sound disturbing what we should understand with our hearts. When we see a man being taken to prion by a police officer let us not hasten to assume he is a wrong-doer. When we see a corpse, and a man standing beside it with bloodstained hands, let us not conclude that this is a victim and his assassin. When we hear one man singing and another lamenting, let us ascertain which one of the two is truly happy." -Kahlil Gibran
"Pleasure is a freedom-song,But it is not freedom.It is the blossoming of your desires,But it is not their fruit.It is a depth calling unto a height,But it is not the deep nor the high.It is the caged taking wing,But it is not space encompassed.Aye, in very truth, pleasure is a freedom-song.And I fain would have you sing it with fullness of heart; yet I would not have you lose your hearts in the singing." -Kahlil Gibran
"Life kisses our faces every morning. Yet, between morning and evening, she laughs at our sorrows." -Kahlil Gibran
"De même que la valeur de la vie n'est pas en sa surface mais dans ses profondeurs, les choses vues ne sont pas dans leur écorce mais dans leur noyau, et les hommes ne sont pas dans leur visage mais dans leur coeur." -Kahlil Gibran
"[Gemütlichkeit] verspottet euren gesunden Verstand." -Kahlil Gibran
"ابذر بذرة تنبت لك الأرض زهرة ، انشُدْ أحلامك في السماء تعطِك السماء ما تحبه نفسك." -Kahlil Gibran
"فأجابت ""إذا حجب الظلام الأشجار والرياحين عن العين فالظلام لا يحجب الحب عن النفس""." -Kahlil Gibran
"لي قلب صغير أريد أن أخرجه من ظلمة صدري وأحمله على كتفي متفحصا أعماقه، ومستحكيا أسراره، فلا تترصده يالآئمي بنبال مذاهبك مسببا خوفه واختفاءه ضمن قفص الضلوع" -Kahlil Gibran
"THEN Almitra spoke again and said, And what of Marriage, master?" -Kahlil Gibran
"Inspiration will always sing; inspiration will never explain. We often sing lullabies to our children that we ourselves may sleep. All our words are but crumbs that fall down from the feast of the mind." -Kahlil Gibran
"Yestereve I saw philosophers in the market-place carrying their heads in baskets, and crying aloud, ""Wisdom! Wisdom for sale!""Poor philosophers! They must needs sell their heads to feed their hearts. Said a philosopher to a street sweeper, ""I pity you. Yours is a hard and dirty task.""And the street sweeper said, ""Thank you, sir. But tell me what is your task?""And the philosopher answered saying, ""I study man's mind, his deeds and his desires.""Then the street sweeper went on with his sweeping and said with a smile, ""I pity you too." -Kahlil Gibran
"But I look up high to see only the light, And never look down to see my shadow. This is wisdom which man must learn.- Song Of The Flower XXIII" -Kahlil Gibran
"Love has no other desire but to fulfill itself. But if you love and must needs have desires, let these be your desires: To melt and be like a running brook that sings its melody to the night. To know the pain of too much tenderness. To be wounded by your own understanding of love; And to bleed willingly and joyfully. To" -Kahlil Gibran
"ألا يجيء يوم يا ترى تنصر فيه مواهبك السامية من البحث في مآتي الأيام إلى إظهار أسرار نفسك واختباراتها الخاصة ومخبآتها النبيلة ؟ أفليس الابتداع أبقى من البحث في المبدعين ؟ ألا ترين أن نظم قصيدة أو نثرها أفضل من رسالة في الشعر و الشعراء ؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"That which sings and contemplates in you is still dwelling within the bounds of that first moment which scattered the stars into space" -Kahlil Gibran
"Is not the lute that soothes your spirit the very wood that was hollowed with knives." -Kahlil Gibran
"لفظة الأم تختبئ في قلوبنا مثلما تختبئ النواة في قلب الأرض ، وتنبثق من بين شفاهنا في ساعات الحزن والفرح ، كما يتصاعد العطر من قلب الوردة في الفضاء الصافي والممطر ." -Kahlil Gibran
"اللوعة إذا عظمت تصير خرساء." -Kahlil Gibran
"والموسيقى كالشعر والتصوير تمثل حالات الانسان المختلفة وترسم اشباح اطوار القلب وتوضح خيالات اميال النفس وتصيغ ما يجول في الخاطر وتصف اجمل مشتعيات الجسد" -Kahlil Gibran
"الشعر كثيرٌ من الفرح والألم والدَّهشة وحفنةٌ من الكلمات. من العبث أن يبحث شاعرٌ عن مصدر أغنيات قلبه." -Kahlil Gibran
"ما عييت إلا أمام من سألني : من أنت!؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"إن المدنية الحاضرة قد أنمت مدارك المرأة قليلًا ، ولكنها أكثرت أوجاعها بتعميم مطامع الرجل ، كانت المرأة بالأمس خادمة سعيدة فصارت اليوم سيدة تعسة . كانت بالأمس عمياء تسير في نور النهار ، فأصبحت مبصرة تسير في ظلمة الليل ، كانت جميلة بجهلها فاضلة ببساطتها قوية بضعفها ، فصارت قبيحة بتفنُّنها سطحيّة بمداركها بعيدة عن القلب بمعارفها . فهل يجيء يوم يجتمع في المرأة الجمال بالمعرفة والتفنن بالفضيلة ، وضعف الجسد بقوة النفس ؟ أنا من القائلين إن الارتقاء الروحي سنَّة في البشر ، والتقرب من الكمال شريعة بطيئة لكنها فعالة ، فإذا كانت المرأة قد ارْتقت بشيء وتأخرت بشيء آخر ؛ فلأن العقبات التي تُبلغنا قمة الجبل لا تخلو من مكامن اللصوص وكهوف الذئاب . ففي هذا الجبل الشبيه بالغيبوبة التي تتقدم اليقظة ، في هذا الجبل القابض بكفيه على تراب الأجيال الغابرة وبزور الأجيال الآتية ، في هذا الجبل الغريب بميوله وأمانيه لا تخلو مدينة من امرأة ترمز بوجودها عن ابنة المستقبل . وسلمى كرامة كانت في بيروت رمز المرأة الشرقية العتيدة ، ولكنها كالكثيرين الذين يعيشون قبل زمانهم قد ذهبت ضحية الزمن الحاضر ، ونظير زهرة اختطفها تيار النهر قد صارت قهرًا في موكب الحياة نحو الشقاء ." -Kahlil Gibran
"For what is your friend that you should seek him with hours to kill? Seek him always with hours to live." -Kahlil Gibran
"... what are your possessions but things you keep and guard for fear you may need them tomorrow?" -Kahlil Gibran
"We are all prisoners, but some of us are in cells with windows and some without." -Kahlil Gibran
"وهل الشر إلا خير أضناه ما كَمَنَ فيه من جوع وظمأ؟ لَعَمرِي إن الخير إذا جاع التمس الطعام ولو في الكهوف المظلمة، وإذا عطش روى ظمأه ولو من المياه الآسنة." -Kahlil Gibran
"في تلك السنة شاهدت ملائكة السماء تنظر إليَّ من وراء أجفان امرأة جميلة ، وفيها رأيت أبالسة الجحيم يضجون ويتراكضون في صدر رجل مجرم ، ومن لا يشاهد الملائكة والشياطين في محاسن الحياة ومكروهاتها يظل قلبه بعيدًا عن المعرفة ونفسه فارغة من العواطف ." -Kahlil Gibran
"الشعر حكمة يُفتَن القلبُ بها. والحكمة شعرٌ يطرب العقل به." -Kahlil Gibran
"Perhaps the sea's definition of a shell is the pearl.Perhaps time's definition of coal is the diamond." -Kahlil Gibran
"أذا شئت أن تملك شيئاً فلا تدعه لنفسك." -Kahlil Gibran
"و الشبيبة حلم جميل تسترق عذوبته معميات الكتب و تجعله يقظة قاسية, فهل يجيء يوماً يجمع فيه الحكماء بين أحلام الشبيبة ولذة المعرفة مثلما يجتمع العتب بين القلوب المتنافرة؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"And he who has deserved to drink from the ocean of life deserves to fill his cup from your little stream." -Kahlil Gibran
"But today we kneel only to truth, follow only beauty, and obey only love." -Kahlil Gibran
"I loved him not, yet I did not hate Him. I listened to Him not to hear His words but rather he sound of His voice; for His voice pleased me. All that He said was vague to my mind, but the music thereof was clear to my ear. Indeed were it not for what others have said to me of His teaching, I should not have known even so much as whether He was with Judea or against it." -Kahlil Gibran
"ولما رأيت المعرفة كرهت الاستخدام وقد حاولت الخضوع لما يدعونه نصيبا فلم أقدر لان روحي أبت ان أصرف العمر كله راكعة أمام صنم مخيف اقامته الأجيال المظلمة ودعته الشريعة." -Kahlil Gibran
"Lovers embrace that which is between them rather than each other." -Kahlil Gibran
"The lights of stars that were extinguished ages ago still reaches us. So it is with great men who died centuries ago, but still reach us with the radiations of their personalities." -Kahlil Gibran
"لا يكسر الشرائع البشرية إلا إثنان: المجنون والعبقري ؛ وهما أقرب الناس إلى قلب الله" -Kahlil Gibran
"كيف تستطيع ان تغنّي اذا كان فمك ممتلئا طعاما ؟وكيف ترتفع يدك بالبركة اذا كانت ممتلئة ذهبا ؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"...يقظتي، وهي أعمق أحلامي" -Kahlil Gibran
"عن ميلاد يسوعلقد عزف جبران أنشودة ميلادٍ كما لم يعزفها أحدٌ من قبل، رسم بقلمه لوحةً مزج فيها السرّ بالواقع ..الرمز بالحقيقة .. كلماته أشبه بأنغامٍ نستمع إليها، كما لمعزوفات الموسيقى، بالوجدان أكثر من العقل، والوجدان ينقل خبرة ميلاد يسوع الطفل عبر شريان المشاعر إلى أعمق أعماق النفس والروح لتحفرها نقشًا لا تمحوه نقرات الموت مهما اشتدّت.يقول جبران: 'كان اليهود يترقّبون مجيء عظيم موعودٌ به منذ ابتداء الدهور ليُخلِّصهم من عبوديّة الأمم، وكانت النفس الكبيرة في اليونان ترى أنّ عبادة المشتري ومينرفا قد ضعفت، فلم تعد الأرواح تشبع من الروحيّات، وكان الفكر السامي في روما يتأمّل فيجد أن ألوهيّة آبولون أصبحت تتباعد من العواطف، وجمال فينوس الأبدي قد أخذ يقترب من الشيخوخة، وكانت الأمم كلّها تشعر على غير معرفة منها بمجاعة نفسيّة إلى تعاليم مترفِّعة عن المادة وبميلٍ عميق إلى الحريّة الروحيّة التي تُعلِّم الإنسان أن يفرح مع قريبه بنور الشمس وجمال الحياة. تلك هي الحريّة الجميلة التي تخوِّل الإنسان أن يقترب من القوّة غير المنظورة بلا خوفٍ ولا وجلٍ بعد أن يقنع الناس طرًّا بأنه يقترب منهم من أجل سعادتهم … ففي ليلة واحدة، بل في ساعة واحدة، بل في لمحة واحدة تنفرد عن الأجيال، لأنّها أقوى من الأجيال، انفتحت شفاه الروح ولفظت ‘كلمة الحياة' التي كانت في البدء عند الروح، فنزلت مع نور الكواكب وأشعّة القمر وتجسّدت وصارت طفلاً بين ذراعي ابنة من البشر، في مكانٍ حقير، حيث يحمي الرعاة مواشيهم من كواسر اللّيل .. ذلك الطفل النائم على القشّ اليابس في مذود البقر ـ ذلك الملك الجالس فوق عرشٍ مصنوعٍ من القلوب المثقّلة بنير العبوديّة، والنفوس الجائعة إلى الروح، والأفكار التائقة إلى الحكمة ـ ذلك الرضيع الملتف بأثواب أمّه الفقيرة قد انتزع بلطفه صولجان القوة من المشتري وأسلمه للراعي المسكين المتّكئ على الأعشاب بين أغنامه، وأخذ الحكمة من مينرفا برقّته ووضعها على لسان الصيّاد الفقير الجالس في زورقه على شاطئ البحيرة، واستخلص الغبطة بحزن نفسه من آبولون ووهبها لكسير القلب الواقف مستعطيًا أمام الأبواب، وسكب الجمال بجماله من فينيس وبثــّه في روح المرأة الساقطة الخائفة من قساوة المضطّهِدين، وأنزل البعل عن كرسي جبروته وأقام مكانه الفلاّح البائس الذي ينثر في الحقل البذور مع عرق الجبين … هذا الحبّ العظيم الجالس في هذا المذود المنزوي في صدري، هذا الحبّ الجميل الملتف بأقمطة العواطف، هذا الرضيع اللّطيف المتّكِئ على صدر النفس قد جعل الأحزان في باطني مسرّة، واليأس مجدًا، والوحدة نعيمًا. هذا الملك المتعالي فوق عرش الذات المعنويّة قد أعاد بصوته الحياة لأيامي المائتة، وأرجع بملامسة النور إلى أجفاني المقرّحة بالدموع، وانتشل بيمينه آمالي من لجّة القنوط. كان كلّ الزمن ليلاً .. فصار فجرًا وسيصير نهارًا لأنّ أنفاس الطفل يسوع قد تخلّلت دقائق الفضاء ومازجت ثانويات الأثير. وكانت حياتي حزنًا فصارت فرحًا وستصير غبطة لأنّ ذراعي الطفل قد ضمّتا قلبي وعانقتا نفسي." -Kahlil Gibran
"Between what is said and not meant, and what is meant and not said, most of love is lost" -Kahlil Gibran
"هيموا وراء الجمال واتبعوه وان قادكم الى شفا الهاوية.اجلا اتبعوهاوان كان ذا جناح وأنتم لا جناح لكم , ابتعوه وان انتهى بكم الى الهاوية , اتبعوه فان افتقدتم الجمال افتقدتم كل شئ" -Kahlil Gibran
"الحبُّ كلمةٌ مِن نورٍ خطَّتْها يدٌ مِن نورٍ فوق صفحةٍ مِن نور." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن النفس إذا تطهرت بالنار واغتسلت بالدموع تترفع عما يدعوه الناس عيبا وعارا، وتتحرر من عبودية الشرائع والنواميس التى سنتها التقاليد لعواطف القلب البشرى، وتقف برأس مرفوع أمام عروش الآلهة." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your saying to me ""I do not understand you"", is praise beyond my worth, and an insult you do not deserve." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن الأرض تؤتيكم ثمارها ، فتكفيكم الحاجة لو عرفتم كيف تملأون منها أكفكم. فإن أنتم تبادلتم نعمها نلتم الوفرة والرخاء ، وطابت بذلك نفوسكم ، فإن لم يجر بينكم التبادل بالحب والعدل الرفيق ، شرهت فيكم نفوس وجاعت أخرى." -Kahlil Gibran
"When you are joyous, look deep into your heart and you shall find it is only that which has given you sorrow that is giving you joy.When you are sorrowful look again in your heart, and you shall see that in truth you are weeping for that which has been your delight.Some of you say, ""Joy is greater than sorrow,"" and others say, ""Nay, sorrow is the greater.""But I say unto you, they are inseparable.Together they come, and when one sits alone with you at your board, remember that the other is asleep upon your bed." -Kahlil Gibran
"Work is love made visible.And if you cannot work with love but only with distaste, it is better that you should leave your work and sit at the gate of the temple and take alms of those who work with joy.For if you bake bread with indifference, you bake a bitter bread that feeds but half man's hunger.And if you grudge the crushing of the grapes, your grudge distils a poison in the wine.And if you sing though as angels, and love not the singing, you muffle man's ears to the voices of the day and the voices of the night." -Kahlil Gibran
"مساء العيدجاء المساء وغمر الظلام فشعشعت الأنوار في القصور والمنازل وخرج الناس إلي الشوارع بملابس العيد الجديدة وعلي وجوههم سيماء البشر والاستكفاء ومن بين دقائق لهاثهم تنبعث رائحة المآكل والخمور ...أما أنا فسرت وحيداً منفرداً مبتعداً عن الزحام والضجيج أفكر بصاحب العيد.أفكر بنابغة الأجيال الذي ولد فقيراً وعاش متجرداً ومات مصلوباً ...أفكر بالشعلة النارية التي أوقدها الروح الكلي في قرية حقيرة بسوريا (فلسطين أثناء زمان الكاتب) فطافت مرفرفة فوق رؤوس العصور مخترقة مدنية بعد مدنية ...ولما بلغت الحديقة العمومية، جلست علي مقعد خشبي أنظر من خلال أغصان الأشجار العارية نحو الشوارع المزدحمة وأسمع عن بُعد أناشيد المعَيدين السائرين في موكب اللهو و الخلو ..وبعد ساعة مفعمة بالأفكار والأحلام التفت وإذا برجل جالس بقربي علي المقعد وفي يده عصاه يرسم بطرفها خطوطاً ملتبسة علي التراب .. فقلت في نفسي ""هو مستوحد مثلي"" ثم تفرست إليه متبصراً شكله فألفيته رغم أثوابه القديمة وشعره المسترسل المشوش ذا هيبة ووقار .. وكأنه قد شعر بأنني أنظر إليه متفحصاً شكله وملامحه فالتفت نحوي وقال بصوت عميق هادى ""مساء الخير"" فأرجعت التحية قائلاً ""أسعد الله مساءك"" ثم عاد يرسم الخطوط بعكازه علي أديم الأرض، وبعد هنيهة وقد أعجبت بنغمة صوته خاطبته ثانية قائلاً:""هل أنت غريب في هذه المدينة؟"" فأجاب ""أنا غريب في هذه المدينة وأنا غريب في كل مدينة أخرى"".قلت ""أن الغريب في مثل هذه المواسم يتناسى ما في الغربة من الضيم والوحشة لما يجده في الناس من الأنس والانعطاف"". فأجاب ""أنا غريب في مثل هذه الأيام أكثر مني في غيرها"".قال هذا ونظر إلي الفضاء الرمادي فاتسعت عيناه وارتعشت شفتاه كأنه رأى علي صفحة الفضاء رسوم وطن بعيد ..قلت ""إن القوم في هذه المواسم يعطفون علي بعضهم البعض فالغني يذكر الفقير والقوى يرحم الضعيف"".فأجاب ""نعم وما رحمة الغني بالفقير سوى نوع من حب الذات وليس انعطاف القوى علي الضعيف إلا شكلاً من التفوق والافتخار"".قلت ""قد تكون مصيباً، ولكن ماذا يهم الفقير الضعيف ما يجول في باطن الغني القوى من الرغائب والأميال؟ إن الجائع المسكين يحلم بالخبز ولكنه لا يفكر بالكيفية التي يعجن بها الخبز"".فأجاب ""إن الموهوب لا يفتكر أما الواهب فيجب عليه أن يفتكر ويفتكر طويلاً"". فأعجبت بكلامه وعدت أتأمل منظره الغريب وأثوابه القديمة وبعد سكينة نظرت إليه قائلاً ""يلوح لي أنك في حاجة فهلا قبلت درهماً أو درهمين؟""فأجاب وقد ظهرت علي شفتيه ابتسامة محزنة ""نعم أنا بحاجة ولكن إلي غير المال"". قلت ""وماذا تحتاج؟""فقال ""أنا بحاجة إلي مأوى ..أنا بحاجة إلي مكان أسند إليه رأسي""قلت ""خذ مني درهمين واذهب إلي النزل وأستأجر غرفة"". فأجاب ""قد ذهبت إلي كل نزل في هذه المدينة فلم أجد لي مأوى، وطرقت كل باب فلم أري لي صديقاً، ودخلت كل مطعم فلم أعط خبزاً"".فقلت في نفسي: ما أغربه فتي يتكلم تارة كالفيلسوف وطوراً كالمجنون.ولكن لم أهمس لفظة ""مجنون"" في أذن روحي حتى حدق بي شاخصاً ورفع صوته عن ذي قبل وقال ""نعم أنا مجنون ومن كان مثلي يرى نفسه غريباً بلا مأوى وجائعاً بلا طعام"".قلت مستدركاً مستغفراً ""سامح ظنوني فأنا لا أعرف من أنت وقد استغربت كلامك، فهلا قبلت دعوتي وذهبت معي لتصرف الليلة في منزلي؟""فأجاب ""قد طرقت بابك ألف مرة ولم يُفتح لي"".قلت وقد تحققت جنونه ""تعال الآن وأصرف الليلة في منزلي؟""فرفع رأسه وقال ""لو عرفت من أنا لما دعوتني؟"". فقلت ""ومن أنت؟"".قال وفي صوته هدير مياه غزيرة ""أنا الثورة التي تقيم ما أقعدته الأمم. أنا العاصفة التي تقتلع الأنصاب التي أنبتتها الأجيال. أنا الذي جاء ليلقي في الأرض سيفاً لا سلاماً"".ووقف منتصباً وتعالت قامته وسطع وجهه وبسط ذراعيه فظهر أثر المسامير في كفيه: فارتميت راكعاً أمامه وصرخت قائلاً ""يا يسوع الناصري ...""وسمعته يقول إذ ذاك ""العالم يعَيد لأسمي وللتقاليد التي حاكتها الأيام حول أسمي. أما أنا فغريب أطوف تائهاً في مغارب الأرض ومشارقها وليس بين الشعوب من يعرف حقيقتي"".للثعالب أو جرة ولطيور السماء أوكار وليس لابن الإنسان أن يسند رأسه. ورفعت رأسي إذ ذاك ونظرت فلم أرى أمامي سوى عمود من البخور ولم أسمع سوى صوت الليل آتياً من أعماق الأبدية." -Kahlil Gibran
"والمرأة العاقر مكروهة في كل مكان ؛ لأن الأنانية تصور لأكثر الرجال دوام الحياة في أجساد الأبناء ، فيطلبون النسل ليظلُّوا خالدين على الأرض ." -Kahlil Gibran
"لا يحسدني ولا يبغضني إلا الذين دوني ولكن لم يحسدني ولم يبغضني أحد قط .. فأنا إذن لست فوق أحد ." -Kahlil Gibran
"Vergnügen ist ein Lied der Freiheit, - Aber es ist keine Freiheit." -Kahlil Gibran
"إذا كانت الوحدة عنوان الضعف فأنا بدون شك أضعف الناس" -Kahlil Gibran
"وعلمت للمرة الأولى بأن الإنسان وإن ولد حراً يظل عبداً لقساوة الشرائع التي سنها آباؤه وأجداده، وأن القضاء الذي نتوهمه سراً علوياً لهو استسلام اليوم إلى مآتي الأمس، وخضوع الغد إلى أميال اليوم." -Kahlil Gibran
"Hidup ini surga. Pintunya ada di hati" -Kahlil Gibran
"Arbeit ist sichtbar gemachte Liebe." -Kahlil Gibran
"When a man destroys his fellow, people say that such a one is a murderer. When one set in authority destroys, it is said that this one is a faithful judge." -Kahlil Gibran
"بند آمدن نفس، همانا رهایی از گردش پی در پی خویش است." -Kahlil Gibran
"لا تنس و انت تعطى ان تدير ظهرك عمن تعيطه كى لا ترى حياءه عاريا امام عينيك" -Kahlil Gibran
"كثيرون هم الذين يتكلمون كالبحر لكن حياتهم فشبيهة بالمستنقعات" -Kahlil Gibran
"Smile, my beloved, like the gold smiles from my father's coffers." -Kahlil Gibran
"Liebe, die etwas anderes sucht als die Offenbarung ihres eigenen Mysteriums, ist nicht Liebe, sondern ein ausgeworfenes Netz: und nur das Nutzlose wird gefangen." -Kahlil Gibran
"He who has not looked on Sorrow will never see Joy" -Kahlil Gibran
"مَن بـاحَ …بِالأَسـراريُشابـه …الأَحـمَـقفَالصَّمتُ …وَالكِتمـانأَحرى بِمَن …يَعشَـقبِاللَّـهِ يـا …قَلـبـيإِذا أَتـــــــاكمُستَعـلـمٌ …يَـسـألعَمّـا دَهـاك فَاِكتُـميـا قَلـبُ إِن قالـواأَيـنَ الَّتـي تَهـوىقُل قَد سَبَت …غَيـريثُـمّ اِدّعِ …السَّـلـوىبِاللَّـهِ يـا …قَلـبـياِسـتُـر جَـــواك" -Kahlil Gibran
"Every thought I have imprisoned in expression I must free by my deeds." -Kahlil Gibran
"Suddenly we heard a voice crying, ""This is the sea. This is the deep sea. This is the vast and mighty sea."" And when we reached the voice it was a man whose back was turned to the sea, and at his ear he held a shell, listening to its murmur.And my soul said, ""Let us pass on. He is the realist, who turns his back on the whole he cannot grasp, and busies himself with a fragment." -Kahlil Gibran
"لا , لا أريد أن يفهمني بشري ٕاذا كان فهمه ٕاياي ضرباً من العبودية المعنوية . وما أكثر الذين يتوهمون أنهم يفهموننا لأنهم وجدوا في بعض مظاهرنا شيئا شبيهاً بما اختبروه مرة في حياتهم . وليتهم يكتفون بادعائهم إدراك أسرارنا – تلك الأسرار التي نحن ذواتنا لا ندركها – ولكنهم يصموننا بعلامات و أرقام ثم يضعوننا علىٕ رف من رفوف أفكارهم و إعتقاداتهم مثلما يفعل الصيدلي بقناني الأدوية والمساحيق !" -Kahlil Gibran
"Your children are not your children. They are the sons and daughters of Life's longing for itself. They come through you but not from you, And though they are with you yet they belong not to you." -Kahlil Gibran
"Our world is so complex that we take for granted engineering processes that would dwarf any of the ancient Seven Wonders of the World; we ride railroad tracks that do not follow faithfully the curvature of the earth, for the train would jump the tracks if they were level. We pass skyscrapers whose stress and strain are figured to the millionth of an inch, yet take for granted that the Empire State Building actually sways constantly many feet. If we are religiously inclined, we take going to the church of our choice for granted; if we are non believers, we give no second thought to the fact that we do not have to attend religious services if we do not choose. Yet the very privilege of non-belief represents the victory of philosophy; otherwise the non-churchgoer would still face the lions or the stake." -Kahlil Gibran
"A shy failure is nobler than an immodest success." -Kahlil Gibran
"ففي سورية مثلا كان التعليم يأتينا من الغرب بشكل صدقة .وقد كنا ولم نزل نلتهم خبز الصدقة لأننا جياع متضورون . ولقد أحيانا ذلك الخبز ، ولما أحيانا أماتنا . أحيانا لأنه أيقظ جميع مداركنا ونبه عقولنا قليلا . وأماتنا لأنه فرّق كلمتنا وأضعف وحدتنا وقطع روابطنا وأبعد ما بين طوائفنا حتى أصبحت بلادنا مجموعة مستعمرات صغيرة مختلفة الأذواق متضاربة المشارب . كل مستعمرة منها تشد في حبل إحدى الأمم الغربية وترفع لواءها وتترنم بمحاسنها وأمجادها . فالشاب الذي تناول لقمة من العلم في مدرسة أميركية قد تحول بالطبع إلى معتمد أميركي . والشاب الذي تجرع رشفة من العلم من مدرسة يسوعية صار سفيرا فرنسيا . والشاب الذي لبس قميصا من نسيج مدرسة روسية أصبح ممثلا لروسيا" -Kahlil Gibran
"ما أجهل الناس الذين يتوهَّمون أن المحبة تتولد بالمعاشرة الطويلة والمرافقة المستمرة . إن المحبة الحقيقية هي ابنة التفاهم الروحي ، وإن لم يتم هذا التفاهم بلحظة واحدة لا يتم بعام ولا بجيل كامل ." -Kahlil Gibran
"A poet is a dethroned king sitting among the ashes of his palace trying to fashion an image out of the ashes." -Kahlil Gibran
"We measure time according to the movement of countless suns; and they measure time by little machines in their little pockets.Now tell me, how could we ever meet at the same place and the same time?" -Kahlil Gibran
"في قلوبنا يغمسون أقلامهم ويعتقدون أنَّهم مُلْهَمون." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن المحبة المحدودة تطلب امتلاك المحبوب، أما المحبة غير المتناهية فلا تطلب غير ذاتها" -Kahlil Gibran
"ذكر المصيبة يُدنيها مثلما يُقرِّب الموت الخوف من الموت." -Kahlil Gibran
"And when his wings enfold you yield to him,Though the sword hidden among his pinions may wound you.And when he speaks to you believe in him.Though his voice may shatter your dreams as the north wind lays waste the garden.For even as love crowns you so shall he crucify you. Even as he is for your growth so is he for your pruning.Even as he ascends to your height and caresses your tenderest branches that quiver in the sun,So shall he descend to your roots and shake them in their clinging to the earth.Like sheaves of corn he gathers you unto himself.He threshes you to make you naked.He sifts you to free you from your husks.He grinds you to whiteness.He kneads you until you are pliant;And then he assigns you to his sacred ﬁre, that you may become sacred bread for God's sacred feast." -Kahlil Gibran
"قد فكرت بأمور كثيرة في تلك الشهور الخرساء التي مرت بدون خطاب ولا جواب ولكنه لم يخطر على بالي كونك "" شريرة"" أما الآن وقد صرّحت لي بوجود الشر في روحك فلا يجمل بي سوى تصديقك فأنا أصدق وأثق بكل كلمة تقولينها لي !" -Kahlil Gibran
"Would that I could gather your houses into my hand, and like a sower scatter them in forest and meadow." -Kahlil Gibran
"All you have shall some day be given; Therefore, give now, that the season of giving may be yours and not your inheritors'." -Kahlil Gibran
"The cup does not entice the lips unless the wine's colour is seen through the transparent crystal." -Kahlil Gibran
"When you see a man led to prison say in your heart, ""Mayhap he is escaping from a narrower prison.""And when you see a man drunken say in your heart, ""Mayhap he sought escape from something still more unbeautiful." -Kahlil Gibran
"Then Almitra spoke, saying, ""We would ask now of Death.""And he said:You would know the secret of death.But how shall you find it unless you seek it in the heart of life?The owl whose night-bound eyes are blind unto the day cannot unveil the mystery of light.If you would indeed behold the spirit of death, open your heart wide unto the body of life.For life and death are one, even as the river and the sea are one.In the depth of your hopes and desires lies your silent knowledge of the beyond;And like seeds dreaming beneath the snow your heart dreams of spring.Trust the dreams, for in them is hidden the gate to eternity.Your fear of death is but the trembling of the shepherd when he stands before the king whose hand is to be laid upon himin honour.Is the sheered not joyful beneath his trembling, that he shall wear the mark of the king?Yet is he not more mindful of his trembling?For what is it to die but to stand naked in the wind and to melt into the sun?And what is to cease breathing, but to free the breath from its restless tides, that it may rise and expand and seek Godunencumbered?Only when you drink from the river of silence shall you indeed sing.And when you have reached the mountain top, then you shall begin to climb.And when the earth shall claim your limbs, then shall you truly dance." -Kahlil Gibran
"For what are your possessions but things you keep and guard for fear you may need them to morrow?" -Kahlil Gibran
"Beauty is not a need but an ecstasy." -Kahlil Gibran
"أتطلب مني الصبر والتجلد وفي عينيك معنى اليأس والقنوط ؟ أيعطي الفقير الجائع خبزه للجائع الفقير ؟ أَو يصف العليل دواءً لعليل آخر وهو أحرى بالدواء ؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"But if you love and must needs have desires, let these be your desires:To melt and be like a running brook that sings its melody to the night.To know the pain of too much tenderness.To be wounded by your own understanding of love; And to bleed willingly and joyfully. To wake at dawn with a winged heart and give thanks for another day of loving; To rest at the noon hour and meditate love's ecstasy;To return home in the eventide with gratitude;And then to sleep with a prayer for the beloved in your heart and a song of praise upon your lips." -Kahlil Gibran
"But if you in your pain call birth an affliction and the support of the flesh a curse written upon your brow, then I answer that naught but the sweat of your brow shall wash away that which is written." -Kahlil Gibran
"Kad vas ljubav pozove, podjite za njom, Premda su staze njene tegobne i strme.A kad vas krila njena obgrle, prepustite joj se, Premda vas mač, skriven medju perima njenim, može povrediti.A kad vam progovori, verujte joj, Premda vam glas njen može uništiti snove, k'o sto severac opustoši vrt.Jer, baš kao što vas kruniše, ljubav će vas i razapeti.Isto kao što vas podstiče da rastete, isto tako će vas i okresati.Kao što se uspinje do visina vaših i miluje vam grančice najtananije što trepere na suncu,Tako će se spustiti i do vašeg korenja i protresti ga u njegovom prijanjanju za zemlju.Poput snoplja pščeničnog, sakupiće vas u naručje svoje.Omlatiće vas, da bi vas ogolila. Prosejaće vas, da bi vas otrebila od kukolja.Samleće vas, do beline. Umesiće vas, dok ne postanete gipki.A onda će vas izložiti svojoj svetoj vatri, tako da postanete sveti hleb za svetu Božiju svetkovinu.Sve će vam to ljubav učiniti, ne biste li spoznali tajne svoga srca i u spoznaji toj postali deo srca Života. Budete li, pak, u strahu svome tražili samo ljubavni mir i zadovoljstvo,Bolje vam je onda da pokrijete golotinju svoju, i odete sa gumna ljubavi,U svet koji ne poznaje godišnja doba gde ćete se smejati, al' ne punoćom smeha svog i plakati,al' ne do poslednje suze svoje. Ljubav ne daje ništa osim sebe i nšta ne uzima, osim sebe.Ljubav ne poseduje, niti dopušta da je poseduju; Jer, ljubav je dovoljna ljubavi.Kad volite, ne treba da kažete: ""Bog mi je u srcu"", već: ""Ja sam u srcu Božijem.""I nemojte misliti da možete usmeriti puteve ljubavi,jer ljubav, ako joj se učinite vrednima, usmeriće vaše puteve.Ljubav nema drugih želja, nego da se ispuni.Ali, ako volite a morate još i da želite, neka vam ovo budu želje:Da se istopite i budete kao potok razigrani što peva svoj milozvuk noći.Da spoznate bol prevelike nežnosti. Da vas rani sopsvtveno poimanje ljubavi;I da krvarite drage volje i radosno.Da se probudite u praskozorje sa srcem krilatimi uputite zahvalniicu za još jedan dan ljubavi;Da otpočnete u poslepodnevnom času i razmišljate o ljubavnom zanosu;Da se s večeri vratite kući sa zahvalnočću,A potom da usnite s molitvom za voljenog u srcu i pesmom slavljeničkom na usnama…" -Kahlil Gibran
"للكآبة أيدٍ حريرية الملامس قوية الأعصاب ، تقبض على القلوب وتؤلمها بالوحدة ، فالوحدة حليفة الكآبة ، كما أنها أليفة كل حركة روحية ." -Kahlil Gibran
"Der Gedanke ist ein Vogel, der Raum braucht und in einem Käfig von Worten zwar seine Flügel ausbreiten, aber nicht fliegen kann." -Kahlil Gibran
"I would not exchange the sorrows of my heart  For the joys of the multitude. And I would not have the tears that sadness makes To flow from my every part turn into laughter.  I would that my life remain a tear and a smile. A tear to purify my heart and give me understanding Of life's secrets and hidden things. A smile to draw me nigh to the sons of my kind and To be a symbol of my glorification of the gods. A tear to unite me with those of broken heart; A smile to be a sign of my joy in existence. I would rather that I died in yearning and longing than that I live Weary and despairing. I want the hunger for love and beauty to be in the  Depths of my spirit,for I have seen those who are Satisfied the most wretched of people. I have heard the sigh of those in yearning and Longing, and it is sweeter than the sweetest melody" -Kahlil Gibran
"أما الذات السابعة فظّلت شاخصة تراقب اللاشيء الذي وراء كل شيء" -Kahlil Gibran
"You have walked among us a spirit, and your shadow has been a light upon our faces.Much have we loved you. But speechless was our love, and with veils has it been veiled." -Kahlil Gibran
"You would adjust your conduct and even direct the course of your spirit according to hours and seasons." -Kahlil Gibran
"SPRING In every winter's heart there is a quivering spring, and behind the veil of each night there is a smiling dawn. SP-ST-57" -Kahlil Gibran
"When you pray you rise to meet in the air those who are praying at that very hour, and whom save in prayer you may not meet." -Kahlil Gibran
"And he who defines his conduct by ethics imprisons his song-bird" -Kahlil Gibran
"ACTION A little knowledge that acts is worth infinitely more than much knowled1ge that is idle. WM-ST-63" -Kahlil Gibran
"Für den Freigebigen ist die Suche nach einem, der empfangen soll, eine größere Freude als das Geben." -Kahlil Gibran
"Sing and dance together and be joyous, but let each one of you be alone, even as the strings of a lute are alone though they quiver with the same music." -Kahlil Gibran
"Euer Haus ist euer größerer Körper." -Kahlil Gibran
"Der Lehrer [...] gibt nicht von seiner Weisheit, sondern eher von seinem Glauben und seiner Liebe." -Kahlil Gibran
"Everything lives on earth according to the law of nature, and from that law emerges the glory and joy of liberty; but man is denied this fortune, because he set for the God-given soul a limited and earthly law of his own. He made for himself strict rules. Man built a narrow and painful prison in which he secluded his affections and desires. He dug out a deep grave in which he buried his heart and its purpose. If an individual, through the dictates of his soul, declares his withdrawal from society and violates the law, his fellowmen will say he is a rebel worthy of exile, or an infamous creature worthy only of execution. Will man remain a slave of self-confinement until the end of the world? Or will he be freed by the passing of time and live in the Spirit for the Spirit? Will man insist upon staring downward and backward at the earth? Or will he turn his eyes toward the sun so he will not see the shadow of his body amongst the skulls and thorns?" -Kahlil Gibran
"I want to write more but I cannot. I am a little weary and the silence in my soul is black. I wish I could rest my head on your shoulder." -Kahlil Gibran
"A root is a flower that disdains fame." -Kahlil Gibran
"AND A WOMAN who held a babe against her bosom said, Speak to us of Children. And he said: Your children are not your children. They are the sons and daughters of Life's longing for itself. They come through you but not from you, And though they are with you yet they belong not to you. You may give them your love but not your thoughts, For they have their own thoughts. You may house their bodies but not their souls, For their souls dwell in the house of tomorrow, which you cannot visit, not even in your dreams. You may strive to be like them, but seek not to make them like you. For life goes not backward nor tarries with yesterday. You are the bows from which your children as living arrows are sent forth. The archer sees the mark upon the path of the infinite, and He bends you with His might that His arrows may go swift and far. Let your bending in the archer's hand be for gladness; For even as He loves the arrow that flies, so He loves also the bow that is stable." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your children are not your children. They are the sons and daughters of Life's longing for itself. They come through you but not from you, And though they are with you, yet they belong not to you. You may give them your love but not your thoughts, For they have their own thoughts. You may house their bodies but not their souls, For their souls dwell in the house of tomorrow, which you cannot visit, not even in your dreams." -Kahlil Gibran
"I have a yearning for my beautiful country, and I love its people because of their misery. But if my people rose, stimulated by plunder and motivated by what they call ""patriotic spirit"" to murder, and invaded my neighbour's country, then upon the committing of any human atrocity I would hate my people and my country." -Kahlil Gibran
"A great singer is he who sings our silences." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your pain is the breaking of the shell that encloses your understanding.Even as the stone of the fruit must break, that its heart may stand in the sun, so must you know pain." -Kahlil Gibran
"Then a woman said, 'Speak to us of Joy and Sorrow.' And he answered: Your joy is your sorrow unmasked. And the selfsame well from which your laughter rises was oftentimes filled with your tears. And how else can it be? The deeper that sorrow carves into your being, the more joy you can contain. Is not the cup that holds your wine the very cup that was burned in the potter's oven? And is not the lute that soothes your spirit, the very wood that was hollowed with knives? When you are joyous, look deep into your heart and you shall find it is only that which has given you sorrow that is giving you joy. When you are sorrowful look again in your heart, and you shall see that in truth you are weeping for that which has been your delight. Some of you say, 'Joy is greater than sorrow,' and others say, 'Nay, sorrow is the greater.' But I say unto you, they are inseparable. Together they come, and when one sits alone with you at your board, remember that the other is asleep upon your bed. Verily you are suspended like scales between your sorrow and your joy. Only when you are empty are you at standstill and balanced. When the treasure-keeper lifts you to weigh his gold and his silver, needs must your joy or your sorrow rise or fall." -Kahlil Gibran
"Hearts that are united through the medium of sorrow will not be separated by the glory of happiness. Love" -Kahlil Gibran
"إن ذاتك الثانية حزينة من أجلك أبدا . ولكن ذاتك الثانية تعيش وتنمو على الحزن ، ولذلك فإن حزنها يؤول إلى فرح ." -Kahlil Gibran
"" -Kahlil Gibran
"And my heart bled within me; for you can only be free when even the desire of seeking freedom becomes a harness to you, and when you cease to speak of freedom as a goal and a fulfilment." -Kahlil Gibran
"Once, as I was burying one of my dead selves, the grave-digger came by and said to me, 'Of all those who come here to bury, you alone I like.'Said I, 'You please me exceedingly, but why do you like me?''Because,' said he, 'They come weeping and go weeping—you only come laughing and go laughing." -Kahlil Gibran
"والذي يقيسكم بأصغر عمل من أعمالكم كالذي يقيس البحر بما في زبده من وهن، والذي يدينكم بسقطاتكم كالذي يدين الفصول بتقلباتها" -Kahlil Gibran
"أشفق يا رب وشدد جميع الأجنحة المتكسرة." -Kahlil Gibran
"There are those who give little of the much which they have – and they give it for recognition and their hidden desire makes their gifts unwholesome. And there are those who have little and give it all. These are the believers in life and the bounty of life, and their coffer is never empty. There are those who give with joy, and that joy is their reward. And there are those who give with pain, and that pain is their baptism. And there are those who give and know not pain in giving, nor do they seek joy, nor give with mindfulness of virtue; They give as in yonder valley the myrtle breathes its fragrance into space. Through the hands of such as these God speaks, and from behind their eyes He smiles upon the earth." -Kahlil Gibran
"It is well to give when asked, but it is better to give unasked, through understanding; And to the open-handed the search for one who shall receive is joy greater than giving." -Kahlil Gibran
"My life was a coma, empty like that of Adam's in Paradise, when I saw Selma standing before me like a column of light. She was the Eve of my heart who filled it with secrets and wonders and made me understand the meaning of life..." -Kahlil Gibran
"You have been told also that life is darkness, and in your weariness you echo what was said by the weary. And I say that life is indeed darkness save when there is urge, and all urge is blind save when there is knowledge, and all knowledge is vain save when there is work, and all work is empty save when there is love; and when you work in love you bind yourself to yourself, to one another, and to God." -Kahlil Gibran
"Drink not from this cup unless you forget the past and the future, for happiness is naught but the moment.' And" -Kahlil Gibran
"Life is but a sleep disturbed By dreaming" -Kahlil Gibran
"وهكذا تكون حريتكم، ما ان تخلص من أغلالهاحتى تغدو هي نفسها قيدا لحرية أعظم." -Kahlil Gibran
"Miserable is the man who loves a woman and takes her for a wife, pouring at her feet the sweat of his skin and the blood of his body and the life of his heart, and placing in her hands the fruit of his toil and the revenue of hi s diligence; for when he slowly wakes up, he finds that the heart, which he endeavoured to buy, is given freely and in sincerity to another man for the enjoyment of its hidden secrets and deepest love." -Kahlil Gibran
"يا خيبتي، يا خيبة! يا وحدتي وانفرادي، إنك لأعز لدي من ألف انتصار، وأحلى على قلبي من كل أمجاد الأقطار." -Kahlil Gibran
"Hurry, oh peaceful Death, and carry me from these multitudes who left me in the dark corner of oblivion because I do not bleed the weak as they do. Come, oh gentle Death, and enfold me under your white wings, for my fellowmen are not in want of me. Embrace" -Kahlil Gibran
"لي من نفسي صديق يعزيني إذا ما اشتدت خطوب الأيام و يؤاسيني عندما تلم مصائب الحياة" -Kahlil Gibran
"And if it is a despot you would dethrone, see first that his throne erected within you is destroyed. For how can a tyrant rule the free and the proud, but for a tyranny in their own freedom and a shame in their own pride?" -Kahlil Gibran
"It shall not be a glistening film that covers a wound, but an eyelid that guards the eye." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن الملامح التي تُبيح أسرار الذات المعنوية تكسب الوجه جمالًا وملاحة مهما كانت تلك الأسرار موجعة وأليمة ، أما الوجوه التي لا تتكلم بصمتها عن غوامض النفس وخفاياها فلا تكون جميلة مهما كانت متناسقة الخطوط متناسبة الأعضاء . إن الكؤوس لا تستميل شفاهنا حتى يشفّ بلورها عن لون الخمر . فسلمى كرامة كانت في عشية ذلك النهار كأس طافحة من خمرة علوية تمتزج بدقائقها مرارة العيش بحلاوة النفس . كانت تمثل على غير معرفة منها حياة المرأة الشرقية التي لا تغادر منزل والدها المحبوب إلا لتضع عنقها تحت نير زوجها الخشن … ولا تترك ذراعيْ أمها الرؤوف إلا لتعيش في عبودية والدة زوجها القاسية ." -Kahlil Gibran
"ان روح الله تسكن في العقل" -Kahlil Gibran
"The sorrowful spirit finds relaxation in solitude. It abhors people, as a wounded deer deserts the herd and lives in a cave until it is healed or dead." -Kahlil Gibran
"Between us, Mary, there stands an unknown god" -Kahlil Gibran
"My soul counselled me and instructed me to see that the light which I carry is not my light, That my song was not created within me; For though I travel with the light, I am not the light." -Kahlil Gibran
"We cannot ask thee for aught, for thou knowest our needs before they are born in us:" -Kahlil Gibran
"هات حدثنا عن العقل و الهوىفأجاب قائلاً : كثيرا ما تكون نفوسكم ميداناً تسير فيه عقولكم ومدارككم حربا عواناً على اهوائكموشهواتكم و إنني أود أم أكون صانع سلام في نفوسكمفأحول ما فيكم من تنافر و خصام إلى وحدة و سلام و لكن أنى يكون لي ذلك إذا لم تصيرواأنتم صانعي سلام لنفوسكم ومحبين جميع عناصركم على السواء إن العقل و الهوى هما سكان* ( * دفة السفينة ) النفس و شراعها وهي سائرة في بحر العالم فإذاانكسر السكان أو تمزق الشراع فإن سفينة النفسلا تستطيع أن تتابع سيرها بل ترغم على ملاطمة الأمواج يمنة و يسرة حتى تقذف بكم إلى مكانأمين تحتفطون به في وسط البحرلأن العقل اذا استقل بالسلطان على الجسد قيد أهواءه و لكن الاهواء إذا لم يرافقها العقل كانتلهيباً يتأجج ليفني نفسه فاجعل نفسك تسمو بعقلك إلى مستوى أهوائك و حينئذ ترى منها ما يطربك و يشرح لك صدركوليكن لك من عقلك دليل و قائد لأهوائك لكي تعيش أهواؤك في كل يوم بعد موتها و تنهض كالعنقاء متسامية فوق رمادها و أرغب إليكم أن تعنوا بالعقل و الهوى عنايتكم بطيفين عزيزين عليكم فإنكم ولا شك لا تكرمون الواحدأكثر من الثاني لأن الذي يعتني بالواحد و يهمل الآخر يخسر محبة الاثنين و ثقتهماو إذا جلستم في ظلال الحور الوارفة بين التلال الجميلة تشاطرون الحقول و المروج البعيدة سلامهاو سكينتها و صفائها فقولوا حينئذ في أعماققلوبكم متهيبين خاشعين : إن الله يتحرك في الاهواءوما دمتم نسمة من روح الله وورقة في حرجه فأنتم أيضا يجب أن تستريحوا في العقل و تتحركوا في الأهواء" -Kahlil Gibran
"Euer Schmerz ist das Zerbrechen der Schale, die euer Verstehen umschließt.Wie der Kern der Frucht zerbrechen muß, damit sein Herz die Sonne erblicken kann, so müßt auch ihr den Schmerz erleben." -Kahlil Gibran
"إذا كانت الغباوة العمياء قاطنة في جوار العواصف المستيقظة تكون الغباوة أقسى من الهاوية و أمر من الموت . و الصبي الحساس الذي يشعر كثيرا و يعرف قليلا هو أتعس المخلوقات أمام وجه الشمس لأن نفسه تظل واقفة بين قوتين هائلتين متباينتين : قوة خفيفة تحلق به في السحاب و تريه محاسن الكائنات من وراء ضباب الأحلام ، و قوة ظاهرة تقيده بالأرض و تغمر بصيرته بالغبار و تتركه ضائعا خائفا في ظلمة حالكة" -Kahlil Gibran
"Beauty is that which attracts your soul, and that which loves to give and not receive. When you meet Beauty, you feel that the hands deep within your inner self are stretched forth to bring her into the domain of your heart. It is a magnificence combined of sorrow and joy; it is the Unseen which you see, and the Vague which you understand, and the Mute which you hear-it is the Holy of Holies that begins in yourself and ends vastly beyond your earthly imagination." -Kahlil Gibran
"The owl whose night-bound eyes are blind undo the day cannot unveil the mystery of light." -Kahlil Gibran
"Should you care to write (and only the saints know why you should) you must needs have knowledge and art and magic - the knowledge of the music of words, the art of being artless, and the magic of loving your readers." -Kahlil Gibran
"Yesterday is but today's memory, and tomorrow is but today's dream." -Kahlil Gibran
"Del sufrimiento han surgido las almas más fuertes: los más grandes caracteres están cubiertos de cicatrices" -Kahlil Gibran
"Many a woman borrows a man's heart; Very few could possess it." -Kahlil Gibran
"نستدين في الغالب من غدنا لكي ندفع ديون أمسنا" -Kahlil Gibran
"And his soul cried out to them, and he said: Sons of my ancient mother, you riders of the tides, How often have you sailed in my dreams. And now you come in my awakening, which is my deeper dream. Ready am I to go, and my eagerness with sails full set awaits the wind. Only another breath will I breathe in this still air, only another loving look cast backward, And then I shall stand among you, a seafarer among seafarers. And you, vast sea, sleeping mother, Who alone are peace and freedom to the river and the stream, Only another winding will this stream make, only another murmur in this glade, And then I shall come to you, a boundless drop to a boundless ocean." -Kahlil Gibran
"Should you sit upon a cloud you would not see the boundary line between one country and another, nor the boundary stone between a farm and a farm.It is a pity you cannot sit upon a cloud." -Kahlil Gibran
"Man will be on the path to perfection when he feels that he is one with space that knows no bounds and with the ocean that has no shores; when he becomes that undying fire, that ever-gleaming light, that still air or that violent storm, those clouds charged with lightning, thunder and rain, those rivers merry or sad, those trees in bloom or shedding their leaves, those lands that rise up into mountains or slope down into valleys, those fields under seed or lying fallow." -Kahlil Gibran
"لقد حاولت في ما تقدم ابلاغك ما لا ولن يبلغك اياه الا ما يشابهه في نفسك . فان كنت قد ابنت سرا معروفا لديك كنت من اولئك الذين قد حبتهم الحياة و اوقفتهم امام العرش الابيض وان كنت قد ابنت امرا خاصا بي وحدي فلك ان تطعمي النار هذه الرسالة" -Kahlil Gibran
"And to the open-handed the search for one who shall receive is joy greater than giving." -Kahlil Gibran
"You are far greater than you know, and all is well." -Kahlil Gibran
"Deep is your longing for the land of your memories and the dwelling-place of your greater desires; and our love would not bind you nor our needs hold you." -Kahlil Gibran
"There are those who give little of the much which they have—and they give it for recognition and their hidden desire makes their gifts unwholesome. And there are those who have little and give it all. These are the believers in life and the bounty of life, and their coffer is never empty. There are those who give with joy, and that joy is their reward. And there are those who give with pain, and that pain is their baptism." -Kahlil Gibran
"Only an idiot and a genius break man-made laws; and they are the nearest to the heart of God." -Kahlil Gibran
"And I say that life is indeed darkness save when there is urge, And all urge is blind save when there is knowledge. And all knowledge is vain save when there is work, And all work is empty save when there is love; And when you work with love you bind your self to yourself, and to one another, and to God." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your children are not your children.They are the sons and daughters of Life's longing for itself.They come through you but not from you,And though they are with you yet they belong not to you.You may give them your love but not your thoughts,For they have their own thoughts.You may house their bodies but not their souls,For their souls dwell in the house of tomorrow,which you cannot visit, not even in your dreams.You may strive to be like them,but seek not to make them like you.For life goes not backward nor tarries with yesterday.You are the bows from which your childrenas living arrows are sent forth.The archer sees the mark upon the path of the infinite,and He bends you with His mightthat His arrows may go swift and far.Let our bending in the archer's hand be for gladness;For even as He loves the arrow that flies,so He loves also the bow that is stable." -Kahlil Gibran
"Beauty is a thing of might and dread.Like the tempest she shakes the earth beneath us and the sky above us." -Kahlil Gibran
"لا يظهر الحق الذي فيك إلا الألم العظيم أو الفرح العظيم." -Kahlil Gibran
"خطاست اگر بیندیشیم عشق حاصل مصاحبتی درازمدت و با هم بودنی مجدانه است. عشق ثمره خویشاوندی روحی است . اگر این خویشاوندی در لحظه ای تحقق نیابد ، در طول سالیان و حتی قرن ها نیز تحقق نخواهد یافت" -Kahlil Gibran
"Much of your pain is self-chosen. It is the bitter potion by which the physician within you heals your sick self." -Kahlil Gibran
"يضعف القنوط بصيرتنا فلا نرى غير أشباحنا الرهيبة ، و يصم اليأس آذاننا فلا نسمع غير طرقات قلوبنا المضطربة." -Kahlil Gibran
"The most beautiful word on the lips of mankind is the word Mother,' and the most beautiful call is the call of My Mother.' It is a word full of hope and love, a sweet and kind word coming from the depths of the heart. The mother is every thing-she is our consolation in sorrow, our hope in misery, and our strength in weakness. She is the source of love, mercy, sympathy and forgiveness. He who loses his mother loses a pure soul who blesses and guards him constantly..Every thing in nature bespeaks the mother. And the mother, the prototype of all existence, is the eternal spirit, full of beauty and love.. The word mother is hidden in our hearts, and it comes upon our lips in hours of sorrow and happiness as the perfume comes from the heart of the rose and mingles with clear and cloudy air." -Kahlil Gibran
"Vuestra alegría es vuestro dolor sin máscara. Y la misma fuente de donde brota vuestra risa fue muchas veces llenada con vuestras lágrimas. Y ¿cómo puede ser de otro modo?Mientras más profundo cave el dolor en vuestro corazón, más alegría podréis contener." -Kahlil Gibran
"But I say that even as the holy and the righteous cannot rise beyond the highest which is in each one of you," -Kahlil Gibran
"The flowers of spring are winter's dreams related at the breakfast table of the angels." -Kahlil Gibran
"Love gives naught but itself and takes naught but from itself. Love possesses not nor would it be possessed; For love is sufficient unto love. When you love you should not say, ‘God is in my heart,' but rather, ‘I am in the heart of God.' And think not you can direct the course of love, for love, if it finds you worthy, directs your course." -Kahlil Gibran
"إنما أنا ساعي إلى السكينة" -Kahlil Gibran
"Your hearts know in silence the secrets of the days and the nights. But your ears thirst for the sound of your heart's knowledge. You would know in words that which you have always known in thought. You would touch with your fingers the naked body of your dreams." -Kahlil Gibran
"Work is love made visible. And if you cannot work with love but only with distaste, it is better that you should leave your work and sit at the gate of the temple and take alms of those who work with joy." -Kahlil Gibran
"It is to build a house with affection, even as if your beloved were to dwell in that house." -Kahlil Gibran
"A voice cannot carry the tongue and the lips that give it wings. Alone must it seek the ether. And alone and without his nest shall the eagle fly across the sun." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your friend is your needs answered. He is your field which you sow with love and reap with thanksgiving. And he is your board and your fireside. For you come to him with your hunger, and you seek him for peace." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your clothes conceal much of your beauty, yet they hide not the unbeautiful. And though you seek in garments the freedom of privacy you may find in them a harness and a chain. Would that you could meet the sun and the wind with more of your skin and less of your raiment. For the breath of life is in the sunlight and the hand of life is in the wind." -Kahlil Gibran
"They spread before us their riches of gold and silver, of ivory and ebony, and we spread before them our hearts and our spirits.;And yet they deem themselves the hosts and us the guests." -Kahlil Gibran
"If it were not for our conception of weights and measures we would stand in awe of the firefly as we do before the sun." -Kahlil Gibran
"نحن نزرع راحاتك العظام والجماجم، وأنت تستنبتينها حورًا وصفصافًا! نحن نستودعك الجيف، وأنت تملئين بيادرنا بالأغمار، ومعاصرنا بالعناقيد! نحن نصبغ وجهك بالدم، وأنت تغسلين وجوهنا بالكوثر! نحن نتناول عناصرك لنصنع منها المدافع والقذائف، وأنت تتناولين عناصرنا وتكونين منها الورود والزنابق! ما أوسع صبرك أيتها الأرض، وما أكثر انعطافك! ما أنت أيتها الأرض، ومن أنت؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"Here love begins to render the prose of Life into hymns and canticles of praise" -Kahlil Gibran
"But tell me, who is he that can offend the spirit? Shall the nightingale offend the stillness of the night, or the firefly the stars?" -Kahlil Gibran
"Those people who go to back to eternity before they taste the sweetness of real life are unable to understand the meaning of a woman's suffering. Especially when she devotes her soul to a man she loves by the will of God, and her body to another whom she caresses by the enforcement of earthly law. It" -Kahlil Gibran
"The Infinite keeps naught save Love, for it is in its own likeness." -Kahlil Gibran
"And if there come the singers and the dancers and the flute-players, — buy of their gifts also. For they too are gatherers of fruit and frankincense, and that which they bring, though fashioned of dreams, is raiment and food for your soul." -Kahlil Gibran
"الشكّ ألمـٌ أنستهـُ وحدتهـُ أنّه و الإيمانـ توأمَانـ" -Kahlil Gibran
"Когато Любовта ви позове , последвайте я , макар пътеките и да са стръмни и сурови.И когато крилете и се разперят върху вас , отдайте и се , макар и мечът скрит в перата и да ви ранява.И когато тя ви проговори , повярвайте и ,макар гласът и да руши мечтите ви , тъй както севернякът градините ви попарва.Защото любовта както е корона , тъй е и тежък кръст.Както е ластарът на лозницата , така е и резитба.Както се издига до върхарите ви и гали нежните ви клонки , затрептели в слънчевия сяй,Така се спуска и до корените ви и зле разтърсва ги , макар и впити в почвата.Тя като житни снопове ви сбира и стисва до гръдта си.На хармана си после ви вършее , да се оголи зърното у вас.Отвява ви от сламки и от плява.Премила ви до бяла същина .Омесва ви до податлива мекост.И ви предава на святия си огън , за святи хлябове на Божието свято пиршество.Всичко това ще ви стори любовта , за да познаете тайните на сърцето си и в познанието си да станете частица от сърцевината на Живота.Но ако в своята боязън търсите само мира на любовта и нейната наслада ,тогава по-добре ще за вас да покриете голотата си и да слезнете от хармана на любовтав свят , който не познава сезони и в който ще се смеете , но не от сърце , и ще ридаете , но не от дън душа.Любовта не ви дава нищо освен себе си и не черпи от никого освен от себе си.Любовта не обсебва , но и не иска да я обсебят.Защото на любовта и стига любовта.Любовта няма друго желание , освен да се изпълни.Но ако вие любите и храните желания , нека бъдат тези :да се стопите и да се леете като поток , запял звънката си песен на нощта;да познаете болката на твърде много нежност;да бъдете ранени от собственото си разбиране за любовта;и да кървите драговолно , с радост ;да се будите в зори с крилато сърце и да възхвалявате дарения ви нов ден любов;да почивате по пладне в размишления за любовната нега;вечер да се връщате у дома си , пълни с благодарност ;и да си лягате с молитва за любимото ви същество и с благодарствен химн на устните си." -Kahlil Gibran
"For self is a sea boundless and measureless." -Kahlil Gibran
"هكذا الانسانية مقسمة الى عمودين طويلين، أحدهما يكون من رجال مسنين ومحدودين، يعتمدون على عصى ملتوية، وييتقدمون في طريق الحياة وهم يلهثون، كما لو انهم يرتقون جبلاً، في حين انهم يهبطون في الواقع الى الهاوية.أما العمود الثاني فمكون من شباب يسييرون كما لو انهم فوق سيقات مجنحة، ويشَدُون كما لو ان حنجرتهم مشدودة بحبال من فضة، ويصعدون نحو القمم كما لو أن قوة سحرية لا تقاوم تدفعهم" -Kahlil Gibran
"Forget not that modesty is for a shield against the eye of the unclean. And when the unclean shall be no more, what were modesty but a fetter and a fouling of the mind?" -Kahlil Gibran
"آلا خبروني يا أهل آورفليس ماذا الذي عندكم في هذه البيوت؟ و ما الذي تخزنونه و تحرسونه وراء أبوابكم الموصدة؟أعندكم السلام-ذلك الحافز الهادىء الذي يكشف لكم عما فيكم من قدرة؟ أعندكم الذكريات-تلك القباب المشعة التي تصل قمم الفكر بعضها ببعض؟أم عندكم ذلك الجمال الذي ينتهي بكم من الأشياء المصنوعة من الخشب و الحجر المقدس إلى الجبل المقدس؟أم عندكم الرفاهية و شهوة الرفاهية-تلك الشهوة الخبيثة التي تتسل إلى البيت ضيفة، فلا تلبث آن تصبح مضيفة، و تنتهي بأن تبيت سيدة؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"You shall not fold your wings that you may pass through doors, nor bend your heads that they strike not against a ceiling, nor fear to breathe lost walls should crack and fall down" -Kahlil Gibran
"في أعماق آمالكم ورغباتكم تتكئ معرفتكم الصامتة لما وراء الحياة" -Kahlil Gibran
"Work is love made visible. And if you cannot work with love but only with distaste, it is better that you should leave your work and sit at the gate of the temple and take alms of those who work with joy. For" -Kahlil Gibran
"الأعتقاد شىء و العمل به شىء آخركثيرون هم الذين يتكلمون كالبحر أما حياتهم فشبيهة بالمُستنقعاتكثيرون هم الذين يرفعون رؤوسهم فوق قمم الجبالأما نفوسهم فتبقى هاجعة فى ظلمة الكهوف" -Kahlil Gibran
"وهل من شراب يبرد غلة المجنون سوى دمه؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"Your children are not your children. They are the sons and daughters of life's longing for itself." -Kahlil Gibran
"أي رجل يخرج عن طاعة رئيس دينه في الشرق ويظل كريمًا بين الناس ؟ أتعاند العين سهمًا ولا تُفقأ ؟ أو تناضل اليد سيفًا ولا تُقطع ؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"And could you keep your heart in wonder at the daily miracles of your life, your pain would not seem less wondrous than your joy..." -Kahlil Gibran
"قمة المتعة أن تجالس شخص يكرهك و يغتابك كثيراً و مع ذلك تجده يبين لك العكس و هذا كافي بأن يخبرك بأن لحضورك هيبه قادرة على تحويله لمنافق و جبان" -Kahlil Gibran
"I prefer to be a dreamer among the humblest, with visions to be realized, than lord among those without dreams and desires." -Kahlil Gibran
"For even as love crowns you so shall he crucify you. Even as he is for your growth so is he for your pruning." -Kahlil Gibran
"فقال له الحائك:((بالصواب حكمت أيها الأمير ، فإن العدالة تقضي بقلع عيني ، ولكنه غير خاف على سموك أنني أحتاج في حرفتي إلى عينين لكي أرى حاشيتي الشقة التي أنسجها. غير أن لي جاراً إسكافاً له عينان مثلي ولكنه لايحتاج في مهنته إلا إلى عين واحدة. فاستدعه إن أردت واقلع إحدى عينيه للمحافظة على الشريعة" -Kahlil Gibran
"You have the great gift of understanding, beloved Mary. You are a life-giver, Mary. You are like the Great Spirit, who befriends man not only to share his life, but to add to it. My knowing you is the greatest thing in my days and nights a miracle quite outside the natural order of things. I have always held, with my Madman, that those who understand us enslave something in us. It is not so with you. Your understanding of me is the most peaceful freedom I have known. And in the last two hours of your last visit you took y heart in your hand and found a black spot in it. But just as soon as you found the spot it was erased forever, and I became absolutely chainless." -Kahlil Gibran
"لا أحد منا يفكر بصوت عال ولكن كثيرات يبتسمن بدون أرتباك ، لأننا نلقي أبتسامتنا يمنه ويسره بدون أن نخشي أنفضاح أمرنا أو نفاذ دهائنا" -Kahlil Gibran
"Only when you drink from the river of silence shall you indeed sing. And when you have reached the mountain top, then you shall begin to climb. And when the earth shall claim your limbs, then shall you truly dance. And now it was evening. And Almitra the seeress said, Blessed be this day and this place and your spirit that has spoken. And he answered, Was it I who spoke? Was I not also a listener? Then he descended the steps of" -Kahlil Gibran
"Love is trembling happiness." -Kahlil Gibran
"ان كان النهاوند حنين من يحيا ببعض الامل ،فالاصفهان انين من انفصمت عرى اماله" -Kahlil Gibran
"Oftentimes have I heard you speak of one who commits a wrong as though he were not one of you, but a stranger unto you and an intruder upon your world. But I say that even as the holy and the righteous cannot rise beyond the highest which is in each one of you, So the wicked and the weak cannot fall lower than the lowest which is in you also." -Kahlil Gibran
"But if in your fear you would seek only love's peace and love's pleasure,Then it is better for you that you cover your nakedness and pass out of love's threshing-floor,Into the seasonless world where you shall laugh, but not all of your laughter, and weep, but not all of your tears." -Kahlil Gibran
"And if it is a fear you would dispel, the seat of that fear is in your heart and not in the hand of the feared." -Kahlil Gibran
". إني أضع كلمتي في قلب السكينة فالسكينة تحتفظ على كل ما نقوله بحنو وحرقة وإيمان. والسكينة يا ميّ تحمل صلاتنا إلى حيث نريد أو ترفعها إلى الله.الشعلة الزرقاء - جبران" -Kahlil Gibran
"Ihr redet, wenn ihr aufhört mit euren Gedanken in Frieden zu sein." -Kahlil Gibran
"إني أرجو أن يملأ العالم الجديد راحتيك بالنجوم" -Kahlil Gibran
"The sea that calls all things unto her calls me, and I must embark." -Kahlil Gibran
"نيكي در ميان بشر ساختگي و اجباري است،بدي اما فطري وتا هنگام در گورنهادن ،باقي .دست زمانه ،مرمان را چون مهرگان شطرنج مي گرداند،تا سر انجام روزي ،سوار و پياده را در هم شكند. پس مگو :اين دانشمندي ست بزرگ يا :آن ديگري سروري والامقام! بهترين مردمان ،همچون گوسفندي است كه چوپاني او را هدايت ميكند." -Kahlil Gibran
"He stood up and looked at me even as the seasons might look down upon the field, and He smiled. And He said again: ""All men love you for themselves. I love you for yourself." -Kahlil Gibran
"It is said that unsophistication makes a man empty and that emptiness makes him carefree." -Kahlil Gibran
"Say not, 'I have found the truth,' but rather, 'I have found a truth.' Say not, 'I have found the path of the soul.' Say rather, 'I have met the soul walking upon my path.' For the soul walks upon all paths." -Kahlil Gibran
"The soul walks not upon a line, neither does it grow like a reed." -Kahlil Gibran
"People often say women want to be loved. But they really want much more. Many women want to bear children; and their very being wants to give children life. She often desires men just as a key to the child that is in her to give life to." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن الرجل المادي ينظر إلى زوجته العاقر بالعين التي يرى بها الانتحار البطيء ، فيمقتها ويهجرها ويطلب حتفها كأنها عدوّ غدار يريد الفتك به." -Kahlil Gibran
"He drank life from these breasts now dry, and he took his first steps in this garden, grasping these fingers that are now like trembling reeds." -Kahlil Gibran
"رباه! إن هؤلاء الناس يقيسون فضائلهم بالمقاييس، ويزنون خطاياهم بالموازين، ولديهم سجلات وفهارس لما لا يحصى من التوافه والنقائص التي ليست بالخطايا فتعرف، ولا بالفضائل فتنصف." -Kahlil Gibran
"Not without a wound in the spirit shall I leave this city." -Kahlil Gibran
"Non siamo che un'onda in più tra le onde." -Kahlil Gibran
"يجب ﺃﻻ‌ ﻧﺘﻌﺎﺗﺐ , ﻳﺠﺐ ﺃﻥ ﻧﺘﻔﺎﻫﻢ. ﻭﻻ‌ ﻧﺴﺘﻄﻴﻊ ﺍﻟﺘﻔﺎﻫﻢ ﺇﻻ‌ ﺇﺫﺍ ﺗﺤﺪﺛﻨﺎ ﺑﺒﺴﺎﻃﺔ ﺍﻷ‌ﻃﻔﺎﻝ" -Kahlil Gibran
"And when his wings enfold you yield to him,Though the sword hidden among his pinions may wound you." -Kahlil Gibran
"Give your hearts, but not into each other's keeping. For only the hand of Life can contain your hearts. And stand together yet not too near together: For the pillars of the temple stand apart, And the oak tree and the cypress grow not in each other's shadow." -Kahlil Gibran
"Bread baked without love is a bitter bread that feeds but half a man's hunger." -Kahlil Gibran
"And let your best be for your friend. If he must know the ebb of your tide, let him know its flood also. For what is your friend that you should seek him with hours to kill? Seek him always with hours to live. For it is his to fill your need, but not your emptiness. And in the sweetness of friendship let there be laughter, and sharing of pleasures. For in the dew of little things the heart finds its morning and is refreshed." -Kahlil Gibran
"You ask me how I became a madman. It happened thus:One day, long before many gods were born, I woke from a deep sleep and found all my masks were stolen – the seven masks I have fashioned and worn in seven lives, – I ran maskless through the crowded streets shouting, 'Thieves, thieves, the cursed thieves.'Men and women laughed at me and some ran to their houses in fear of me.And when I reached the market place, a youth standing on a house-top cried, 'He is a madman.' I looked up to behold him; the sun kissed my own naked face for the first time. For the first time the sun kissed my own naked face and my soul was inflamed with love for the sun, and I wanted my masks no more. And as if in a trance I cried, 'Blessed, blessed are the thieves who stole my masks.'Thus I became a madman.And I have found both freedom and safety in my madness; the freedom of loneliness and the safety from being understood, for those who understand us enslave something in us.But let me not be too proud of my safety. Even a Thief in a jail is safe from another thief." -Kahlil Gibran
"إذا كنت لا ترى غير ما يكشف عنه الضوء ولا تسمع غير ما يعلن عنه الصوت، فأنت في الحق لا تبصر ولا تسمع" -Kahlil Gibran
"مِنّا مَن هو كالمِـداد ومِنّا مَن هُو كالوَرَق ، فلولا ما ببعـضنا من سـواد لكان بعـضٌ آخرُ أبْكَم ، ولولا ما ببعـضنا من بَيَاض لكان بعضنا الآخر أعمى ." -Kahlil Gibran
"And though heavy-grounded ships await the tide upon your shores, yet, even like an ocean, you cannot hasten your tides." -Kahlil Gibran
"Love one another, but make not a bond of love: Let it rather be a moving sea between the shores of your souls. Fill each other's cup but drink not from one cup." -Kahlil Gibran
"And beauty is not a need but an ecstasy. It is not a mouth thirsting nor an empty hand stretched forth, But rather a heart inflamed and a soul enchanted. It is not the image you would see nor the song you would hear, But rather an image you see though you close your eyes and a song you hear though you shut your ears." -Kahlil Gibran
"لا دين ولا علم .. بدون الجمال" -Kahlil Gibran
"No lower can a man descend than to interpret his dreams into gold and silver" -Kahlil Gibran
"Would that I could gather your houses into my hand, and like a sower scatter them in forest and meadow.Would the valleys were your streets, and the green paths your alleys, that you might seek one another through vineyards, and come with the fragrance of the earth in your garments." -Kahlil Gibran
"النظر الى مدينة الماضي جهالة" -Kahlil Gibran
"إن الجمال دين الحكماء." -Kahlil Gibran
"And if you cannot work with love but only with distate, it is better that you should leave your work and sit at the gate of the temple and take alms of those who work with joy" -Kahlil Gibran
"Özlemimin yüksekliğini ne bir usturlapla ne de derinliğini bir iskandille ölçtüm. Çünkü aşk, hele sıla hasretiyle de karışmışsa, zamanı ölçüp yoklayacak her aleti tüketir." -Kahlil Gibran
"Now I know that here is something higher than heaven and deeper than ocean and stranger than life and death and time. I know now what I did not know before." -Kahlil Gibran
"And if you would know God be not therefore a solver of riddles.Rather look about you and you shall see Him playing with your children.And look into space and you shall see Him walking in the cloud, outstretching His arms in the lightning and descending in rain.You shall see Him smiling in flowers, and rising and waving His hands in trees." -Kahlil Gibran
"And you would watch with serenity through the winters of your grief. Much of your pain is self-chosen. It is the bitter potion by which the physician within you heals your sick self." -Kahlil Gibran
"[I]st nicht die Zeit wie die Liebe, ungeteilt und ungezügelt?" -Kahlil Gibran
"The subtlest beauties in our life are unseen and unheard." -Kahlil Gibran
"حين نظر إليّ ، أشرقت ظهيرة عينيه على روحي" -Kahlil Gibran
"If the Milky Way were not within me how should I have seen it or known it?" -Kahlil Gibran
"And he who defines his conduct by ethics imprisons his song-bird in a cage. The freest song comes not through bars and wires." -Kahlil Gibran
"شما هنگام سختی دعا می کنید و در هنگام فقر زبان به نیایش می گشایید.کاش در روزگار نعمت و شادی نیز دعا می کردید.زیرا حقیقت دعا جز این نیست که شما هستی خویش را در اثیر آسمانی و اکسیر زندگی گسترش می دهید.وقتی دعا می کنید شما به معراج می روید پس بگذارید زیارت نامرئی شما از این معبد به خاطر چیزی جز وجد و شادی و همراز شدن با جان جهان نباشد.همین که به حریم این معبد پنهان وارد شوید شما را کافی است.من نمی توانم شما را دعایی بیاموزم و کلماتی تعلیم کنم که بدان خدا را نیایش کنید.خداوند به کلمات شما گوش نخواهد کرد مگر آن کلمات را خود بر زبان شما جاری کند.ای پروردگار ما- ما نمی توانیم چیزی از تو بخواهیم-زیرا تو نیاز های ما را نیک می دانی پیش از آنکه نیاز ها در ما زاده شود.نیاز حقیقی ما تویی و اگر تو خود را بیشتر به ما دهی همهء آرزوهای ما را برآورده کرده ای.ا" -Kahlil Gibran
"وبعد ذلك ، صارت جميع أثمار الحياة التي لاطعم لها لذيذة في فمي ، والورود التي لاعطر لها صارت منبعاً للعطر الجميل" -Kahlil Gibran
"Knowledge and understanding are life's faithful companions who will never prove untrue to you. For knowledge is your crown, and understanding your staff; and when they are with you, you can possess no greater treasures." -Kahlil Gibran
"Only another breath will I breathe in this still air, only another loving look cast backward, And then I shall stand among you a seafarer among seafarers." -Kahlil Gibran
"الحزن على الأموات غلطة من أغلاط الأجيال الغابرة." -Kahlil Gibran
"And what is fear of need but need itself? Is not dread of thirst when your well is full, the thirst that is unquenchable?" -Kahlil Gibran
"من تحب ليس نصفك الآخر هو أنت كلّك في مكان آخر في الوقت نفسه" -Kahlil Gibran
"When love beckons to you, follow him, Though his ways are hard and steep. And When his wings enfold you yield to him, Though the sword hidden among his pinions may wound you. And When he speaks to you believe in him, Though his voice may shatter your dreams as the north wind lays waste the garden. For even as love crowns you so shall he crucify you. Even as he is for your growth so is he for your pruning. Even as he ascends to your height and caresses your tenderest branches that quiver in the sun, So shall he descend to your roots and shake them in their clinging to the earth." -Kahlil Gibran
"Friendship is not opportunity, its responsibility." -Kahlil Gibran
"To understand the heart and mind of a person, look not at what they have already achieved, but at what they aspire to achieve" -Kahlil Gibran
"And knows that yesterday is but today's memory and tomorrow is today's dream." -Kahlil Gibran
"You talk when you cease to be at peace with your thoughts; And when you can no longer dwell in the solitude of your heart you live in your lips, and sound is a diversion and a pastime." -Kahlil Gibran
"Bedauern ist die Trübung des Geistes und nicht seine Läuterung." -Kahlil Gibran
"Kindness is like snow. It beautifies everything it covers." -Kahlil Gibran
"ليست حقيقة غيرك فيما يبديه لك بل فيما لا يستطيع ان يبديه لك فانت اذا أردت كنهه فلاتصغ الي ما يقول بل الي ما لا يقول" -Kahlil Gibran
"And let your board stand an altar on which the pure and the innocent of forest and plain are sacrificed for that which is purer and still more innocent in man." -Kahlil Gibran
"Art is a step from nature toward the Infinite." -Kahlil Gibran
"Poiché l'amore come v'incorona così vi crocefigge. E come vi fa fiorire così vi reciderà." -Kahlil Gibran
"It is not a garment I cast off this day, but a skin that I tear with my own hands.Nor is it a thought I leave behind me, but a heart made sweet with hunger and with thirst." -Kahlil Gibran
"You are good when you are fully awake in your speech." -Kahlil Gibran
"Our God, who art our winged self, it is thy will in us that willeth. 'It is thy desire in us that desireth. 'It is thy urge in us that would turn our nights, which are thine, into days, which are thine also. 'We cannot ask thee for aught, for thou knowest our needs before they are born in us: 'Thou art our need; and in giving us more of thyself thou givest us all." -Kahlil Gibran
"For the master spirit of the earth shall not sleep peacefully upon the wind till the needs of the least of you are satisfied" -Kahlil Gibran
"ليحب أحدكما الآخر، ولكن لا تجعلا من الحب قيدا" -Kahlil Gibran
"وعظتني نفسي فعلّمتني لمس مالم يتجسّد ولم يتبلور، وأفهمتني أن المحسوس نصف المعقول. وأن مانقبض عليه بعض مانرغب فيه." -Kahlil Gibran
"When you love you should not say, ""God is in my heart,"" but rather, ""I am in the heart of God."" And think not you can direct the course of love, for love, if it finds you worthy, directs your course." -Kahlil Gibran
"إنما فرحكم حزنكم رفع عن وجهه القناع وما اكثر ما تمتلئ البئر التي تستقون منها ضحكاتكم بفيض دموعكم , وكيف يكون الامر غير ذلك فعلى ما يغوص الحزن في اعماقكم يزيد ما تستوعبون من فرح" -Kahlil Gibran
"When you part from your friend, you grieve not;For that which you love most in him may be clearer in his absence, as the mountain to the climber is clearer from the plain.And let there be no purpose in friendship save the deepening of the spirit.For love that seeks aught but the disclosure of its own mystery is not love but a net cast forth: and only the unprofitable is caught." -Kahlil Gibran
"ما أحلى أيام الحب وما أعذب أحلامها ! وما أمرَّ ليالي الحزن وما أكثر مخاوفها !" -Kahlil Gibran
"Love one another, but make not a bond of love: Let it rather be a moving sea between the shores of your souls." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your children are not your children.They are the sons and daughters of Life's longing for itself.They come through you but not from you,And though they are with you yet they belong not to you.You might give them your love but not your thoughts,For they have their own thoughts." -Kahlil Gibran
"For what is it to die but to stand naked in the wind and to melt into the sun? And what is it to cease breathing but to free the breath from its restless tides, that it may rise and expand and seek God unencumbered? Only when you drink from the river of silence shall you indeed sing. And when you have reached the mountain top, then you shall begin to climb. And when the earth shall claim your limbs, then shall you truly dance." -Kahlil Gibran
"When love beckons to you, follow him, Though his ways are hard and steep. And when his wings enfold you yield to him, Though the sword hidden among his pinions may wound you." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your soul is oftentimes a battlefield, upon which your reason and your judgment wage war against your passion and your appetite." -Kahlil Gibran
"The deeper that sorrow carves into your being, the more joy you can contain. Is not the cup that holds your wine the very cup that was burned in the potter's oven?" -Kahlil Gibran
"In truth that which you call freedom is the strongest of these chains, though its links glitter in the sun and dazzle your eyes." -Kahlil Gibran
"Oftentimes have I heard you speak of one who commits a wrong as though he were not one of you, but a stranger unto you and an intruder upon your world. But I say that even as the holy and the righteous cannot rise beyond the highest which is in each one of you, So the wicked and the weak cannot fall lower than the lowest which is in you also. And as a single leaf turns not yellow but with the silent knowledge of the whole tree, So the wrong-doer cannot do wrong without the hidden will of you all. Like a procession you walk together towards your god-self." -Kahlil Gibran
"هل هناك خطأ أعظم من الشعور بخطأ الاخرين ؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"It is not the image you would see nor the song you would hear, But rather an image you see though you close your eyes and a song you hear though you shut your ears. It is not the sap within the furrowed bark, nor a wing attached to a claw, But rather a garden for ever in bloom and a flock of angels for ever in flight." -Kahlil Gibran
"Oftentimes I have hated in self-defense; but if I were stronger I would not have used such a weapon." -Kahlil Gibran
"You cannot laugh and be unkind at the same time." -Kahlil Gibran
"يجب أن تعرف الحقيقة أبداً ، وتقولها بعض المرات" -Kahlil Gibran
"And could you keep your heart in wonder at the daily miracles of your life, your pain would not seem less wondrous than your joy; And you would accept" -Kahlil Gibran
"ما أحقرني عندما تعطيني الحياة ذهباً ، فأعطيك فضة ثم أحسبني سخياً !" -Kahlil Gibran
"And if our hands should meet in another dream we shall build another tower in the sky." -Kahlil Gibran
"If I were to choose between the power of writing a poem and the ecstasy of a poem unwritten, I would choose the ecstasy. It is better poetry." -Kahlil Gibran
"Hearken to my story. Listen but do not pity me. For pity is intended for the weak and I am still strong in my affliction." -Kahlil Gibran
"You may give them your love, but not your thoughts, for they have their own thoughts. You may house their bodies but not their souls, for their souls dwell in the house of tomorrow, which you cannot visit, not even in your dreams." -Kahlil Gibran
"هكذا الحُب :ابداً لا يعرفُ ماله من غور إلا ساعة الفِراق" -Kahlil Gibran
"We live only to discover beauty. All else is a form of waiting." -Kahlil Gibran
"نحن نكلم صدرك بالسيوف والرماح,وأنت تغمرين كلومنا بالزيت والبلسم.نحن نزرع راحاتك العظام والجماجم,وأنت تستنبتينها حورا وصفصافا.نحن نستودعك الجيف,وأنت تملئن يبادرنا بالاغمار ,ومعاصرنا بالعناقيد.نحن نصبغ وجهك بالدم ,وأنت تغسلين وجوهنا بالكوثر.نحن نتناول عناصرك لنصنع منها المدافع والقذائف ,وأنت تتناولين عناصرنا ,وتكونين منها الورود و الزنابق.ما اوسع صبرك ايتها الارض !وما اكثر انعطافك!" -Kahlil Gibran
"You talk when you cease to be at peace with your thoughts; And when you can no longer dwell in the solitude of your heart you live in your lips, and sound is a diversion and a pastime. And in much of your talking, thinking is half murdered. For thought is a bird of space, that in a cage of words may indeed unfold its wings but cannot fly." -Kahlil Gibran
"The house that does not comfort the needy is worthy of naught but destruction." -Kahlil Gibran
"Y en mi locura he hallado libertad y seguridad; la libertad de la soledad y la seguridad de no ser comprendido, pues quienes nos comprenden esclavizan una parte de nuestro ser." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your children are not your children. They are the sons and daughters of Life's longing for itself. They come through you but not from you, And though they are with you yet they belong not to you. You may give them your love but not your thoughts, For they have their own thoughts. You may house their bodies but not their souls, For their souls dwell in the house of to-morrow, which you cannot visit, not even in your dreams. You may strive to be like them, but seek not to make them like you. For life goes not backward nor tarries with yesterday. You are the bows from which your children as living arrows are sent forth." -Kahlil Gibran
"To follow Beauty even when she shall lead you to the verge of the precipice; and though she is winged and you are wingless, and though she shall pass beyond the verge, follow her, for where Beauty is not, there is nothing;" -Kahlil Gibran
"حياة الغيوم فراق ولقاء، دمعة وابتسامة." -Kahlil Gibran
"لو خُيِّرْتُ بين القدرة على نظم قصيدة ونشوة الاستمتاع بقصيدة مكتوبة لاخترتُ الأخيرة لأنها أكثر شاعرية. غير أنَّك وجميعَ جيراني تتفقون على سوء اختياري. فالشِّعر ليس رأياً يُعرض بل أغنية تنبثق من جرح نازف أو فمٍ باسم. الشاعر ملكٌ مخلوع يجالس رماد قصره محاولاً خلق لوحة من هذا الرَّماد." -Kahlil Gibran
"Schönheit ist Ewigkeit, die sich in einem Spiegel anschaut. - Aber ihr seid die Ewigkeit, und ihr seid der Spiegel." -Kahlil Gibran
"Much of your pain is self-chosen. It is the bitter potion by which the physician within you heals your sick self. Therefore trust the physician, and drink his remedy in silence and tranquillity: For his hand, though heavy and hard, is guided by the tender hand of the Unseen, And the cup he brings, though it burn your lips, has been fashioned of the clay which the Potter has moistened with His own sacred tears." -Kahlil Gibran
"Love gives naught but itself and takes naught but from itself. Love possesses not nor would it be possessed; For love is sufficient unto love." -Kahlil Gibran
"من نمی گویم فردا روز دیگری استفقط میگویم"" تو روز دیگری هستی"".تو فردایی!همانی که باید به خاطرش زنده بمانم" -Kahlil Gibran
"يا إله النفوس أيها القدر الرحيم الساهر على نفوسنا التائهة المجنونةالهي وأنا ناقص أعيش بين الكاملين من البشر. أنا.أناالبشرية المشوشة السديم، المضطرب العناصر، أتخطر بين عوالم تامة من شعوب قد كملت شرائعهم، وتنزهت نظمهم، وتنسقت أفكارهم، وترتبت أحلامهم، وتسجلت رؤاهم، في الأسفار والدواوين.رباه إن هؤلاءالناس يقيسون فضائلهم بالمقاييس، ويزنون خطاياهم بالموازين، ولديهم سجلات وفهارس لما لا يحصى من التوافه والنقائص التي ليست بالخطايا فتعرف، ولا بالفضائل فتنصف.ويقسمون أيامهم ولياليهم إلى أقسام مقننة مرتبة. فيفعلون كل شيء في حينه على وفق ما يخطر لهم. فالأكل والشرب والنوم وكساء العرية، ثم السآمة والضجر، في حينه.والعمل واللعب والغناء والرقص، ثم الاستراحة عندما تحين ساعتها.الافتكار بهذا، والشعور بذاك، ثم العدول عن الافتكار والشعور عندما يشرق نجم الأمل السعيد فوق الأفق البعيد، سلب الجار بثغر باسم، ومنح العطايا بيد تتوقع الثناء والشكر، ثم المديح بفطنة، والملامة بتروّ، وقتل النفس بكلمة، وإحراق الجسد بقبلة، وغسل اليدين عند المساء كأن لم يكن هنالك من شيء.المحبة بتقليد مطروق، والتسلية على منوال مسبوق، وعبادة الآلهة كما يحق ويليق. والاحتيال على الشياطين والمكر بالزنديق، ثم نسيان كل ما جرى وصار كأن الذاكرة حلم من أحلام الأغرار. التصور لغاية، التأمل بعناية، والمسرة بدراية، والتألم بوقاية، ثم إفراغ كأس الآمال رجاء أن تملأها من المآل.رباه، رباه! إن جميع هذه تسبق الفكر، فيحبل بها، والعزيمة فتلدها، والدقة فتربيها، والنظام فيسودها، والعقل فيديرها، ثم تنحر وتلحد في زوايا سكينة النفوس، فتبقى قبورها الموسومة بالعلامات والأرقام عظة لنا ولجميع الأنام.أجل، هذا هو العالم الكامل الذي بلغ أوجه، عالم الغرائب والمعجزات، بل هو أنضج ثمرة في جنان الله وأسمى عالم بين عوالمه، ولكن لما أنا ها هنا يا رب! لم أنا ها هنا، وأنا ثمرة عجراء لم تنل بعد شهوتها من النماء، وعاصفة صماء هوجاء لا شرقا تبتغي ولا غربا، وذرة هائمة تائهة من كوكب محترق ثائر؟لم أنا ها هنا؟ لم أنا ها هنا، يا إله النفوس الضائعة،" -Kahlil Gibran
"… للشبيبة أجنحة ذات ريش من الشعر وأعصاب من الأوهام ، ترتفع بالفتيان إلى ما وراء الغيوم ، فيرون الكيان مغمورًا بأشعة متلونة بألوان قوس قزح ، ويسمعون الحياة مرتلة أغاني المجد والعظمة ، ولكن تلك الأجنحة الشعرية لا تلبث أن تمزِّقها عواصف الاختبار ، فيهبطون إلى عالم الحقيقة ، وعالم الحقيقة مِرْآة غريبة يرى فيها المرء نفسه مصغرة مشوهة ." -Kahlil Gibran
"So too is love a sigh from the sea of emotions, a tear from the sky of love, and a smile from the field of the soul." -Kahlil Gibran
"It is to weave the cloth with threads drawn from your heart, even as if your beloved were to wear that cloth." -Kahlil Gibran
"Kami ini anak Derita, Kalian anak Sukacita,Kami anak Dukacita, Dan Duka itu bayangan TuhanYang tidak menempati wilayah hati dengki" -Kahlil Gibran
"Peri kemanusiaan itu roh Maha Agung di muka bumi, dan roh itu menebar getaran cinta kasih dan niat mulia." -Kahlil Gibran
"Thou art our need; and in giving us more of thyself thou givest us all." -Kahlil Gibran
"وماذا ينفع الإنسان إذا ربح استحسان العالم وخسر استحسان مي؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"You have been told that, even like a chain, you are as weak as your weakest link. This is but half the truth.You are also as strong as your strongest link." -Kahlil Gibran
"النفس الإنسانية مثل الزجاج لا تجرح إلا عندما تنكسر" -Kahlil Gibran
"Bir tilki, gün doğarken gölgesine baktı ve şöyle dedi: ""Bugün öğle yemeğinde bir deve yiyeceğim."" Ve bütün sabah deve arayıp durdu. Ama öğle güneşi yükseldiğinde gölgesini gördü yeniden - ve seslendi kendi kendine: ""Bir fare işimi görür!" -Kahlil Gibran
"إن الموسيقي كانت حورية في سماء الآلهة تعشقت آدميا و هبطت نحوه من العلو فغضب الآلهة إذ علموا و بعثوا وراءها ريحا شديدة نثرتها في الجو و بعثرتها في زوايا الدنيا و لم تمت نفسها قط بل هي حية تقطن آذان البشر" -Kahlil Gibran
"عندما قذفَ الله بي حصاة إلى هذه البحيرة العجيبة أزعجتُ صفحتها بدوائر لا تحصى . غير أنني لمّا بلغتُ أغوارها لفّني سكونٌ شامل ." -Kahlil Gibran
"مثلما تترك أمجاد الحروب جماجم القتلى في البرية البعيدة … إن بهرجة الأعراس الشرقية تصعد بنفوس الفتيان والصبايا صعود النسر إلى ما وراء الغيوم ، ثم تهبط بهم هبوط حجر الرحى إلى أعماق اليمّ ، بل هي مثل آثار الأقدام على رمال الشاطئ لا تلبث أن تمحوها الأمواج ." -Kahlil Gibran
"And what is it to work with love? It is to weave the cloth with threads drawn from your heart, even as if your beloved were to wear that cloth. It is to build a house with affection, even as if your beloved were to dwell in that house." -Kahlil Gibran
"The nearest to my heart are a king without a kingdom and a poor man who does not know how to beg." -Kahlil Gibran
"And his soul cried out to them, and he said: Sons of my ancient mother, you riders of the tides, How often have you sailed in my dreams. And now you come in my awakening, which is my deeper dream. Ready am I to go, and my eagerness with sails full set awaits the wind. Only another breath will I breathe in this still air, only another loving look cast backward, And then I shall stand among you, a seafarer among seafarers. And you, vast sea, sleeping mother, Who alone are peace and freedom to the river and the stream, Only another winding will this stream make, only another murmur in this glade, And then I shall come to you, a boundless drop to a boundless ocean. And as he walked he saw from afar men and women leaving their fields and their vineyards and hastening towards the city gates. And he heard their voices calling his name, and shouting from field to field telling one another of the coming of his ship." -Kahlil Gibran
"[W]enn der Austausch [Handel] nicht in Liebe und freundlicher Gerechtigkeit stattfindet, wird er bloß einige zur Gier und andere zum Hunger führen." -Kahlil Gibran
"Who can separate his faith from his actions, or his belief from his occupations? Who can spread his hours before him, saying, 'This for God and this for myself; This for my soul, and this other for my body?" -Kahlil Gibran
"Your pain is the breaking of the shell that endoses your understanding." -Kahlil Gibran
"Only another breath will I breathe in this still air, only another look cast backward,Then I shall stand among you, a seafarer among seafarers." -Kahlil Gibran
"You have been told also that life is darkness, and in your weariness you echo what was said by the weary." -Kahlil Gibran
"Hélas! il en a toujours été ainsi, l'amour ne découvre toute sa profondeur qu'au moment de la séparation." -Kahlil Gibran
"And if any of you would punish in the name of righteousness and lay the ax unto the evil tree, let him see to its roots;" -Kahlil Gibran
"Give me the flute and singfor singing is the secret of existenceAnd the sound of the flute remains after the end of existence.Have you, as i did, taken the jungleA house without limitationsHave you followed the RunnelsAnd climbed the rockshave you bathed in its fragranceand dried yourself in its lightHave you tried drinking the Dawn as your wineout of divine cupsHave you, as i did, sat in the afternoonBetween the grapes plantswith the clusters hanginglike golden chandlers...Have you, as i did, slept on the grass at nightAnd used the sky as you blanketAscetic in what will comeForgetting what has passedGive me the flute and singForget the disease and medicationFor people are only lineswritten with water" -Kahlil Gibran
"Much have we loved you. But speechless was our love, and with veils has it been veiled. Yet now it cries aloud unto you, and would stand revealed before you. And ever has it been that love knows not its own depth until the hour of separation." -Kahlil Gibran
"You have been told that, even like a chain, you are as weak as your weakest link.This is but a half truth. You are also as strong as your strongest link.To measure you by your smallest deed is to reckon the power of the ocean by the failty of its foam.To judge you by your failures is to cast blame upon the seasons for their inconsistency." -Kahlil Gibran
"And an orator said, ""Speak to us of Freedom.""And he answered:At the city gate and by your fireside I have seen you prostrate yourself and worship your own freedom,Even as slaves humble themselves before a tyrant and praise him though he slays them.Ay, in the grove of the temple and in the shadow of the citadel I have seen the freest among you wear their freedom as a yoke and a handcuff.And my heart bled within me; for you can only be free when even the desire of seeking freedom becomes a harness to you, and when you cease to speak of freedom as a goal and a fulfillment.You shall be free indeed when your days are not without a care nor your nights without a want and a grief,But rather when these things girdle your life and yet you rise above them naked and unbound.And how shall you rise beyond your days and nights unless you break the chains which you at the dawn of your understanding have fastened around your noon hour?In truth that which you call freedom is the strongest of these chains, though its links glitter in the sun and dazzle the eyes.And what is it but fragments of your own self you would discard that you may become free?If it is an unjust law you would abolish, that law was written with your own hand upon your own forehead.You cannot erase it by burning your law books nor by washing the foreheads of your judges, though you pour the sea upon them.And if it is a despot you would dethrone, see first that his throne erected within you is destroyed.For how can a tyrant rule the free and the proud, but for a tyranny in their own freedom and a shame in their won pride?And if it is a care you would cast off, that care has been chosen by you rather than imposed upon you.And if it is a fear you would dispel, the seat of that fear is in your heart and not in the hand of the feared.Verily all things move within your being in constant half embrace, the desired and the dreaded, the repugnant and the cherished, the pursued and that which you would escape.These things move within you as lights and shadows in pairs that cling.And when the shadow fades and is no more, the light that lingers becomes a shadow to another light.And thus your freedom when it loses its fetters becomes itself the fetter of a greater freedom." -Kahlil Gibran
"La vostra gioia è il vostro dolore senza maschera,E il pozzo da cui scaturisce il vostro riso, è stato sovente colmo di lacrime.E come può essere altrimenti?Quanto più a fondo vi scava il dolore, tanta più gioia potrete contenere." -Kahlil Gibran
"Think not I say these things in order that you may say the one to the other, ""He praised us well. He saw but the good in us.""I only speak to you in words of that which you yourselves know in thought.And what is word knowledge but a shadow of wordless knowledge?Your thoughts and my words are waves from a sealed memory that keeps records of our yesterdays,And of the ancient days when the earth knew not us nor herself,And of nights when earth was upwrought with confusion,Wise men have come to you to give you of their wisdom. I came to take of your wisdom." -Kahlil Gibran
"Shall the day of parting be the day of gathering? And shall it be said that my eve was in truth my dawn?" -Kahlil Gibran
"Your children are not your children.They are the sons and daughters of Life's longing for itself.They come through you but not from you,And though they are with you, yet they belong not to you.You may give them your love but not your thoughts.For they have their own thoughts.You may house their bodies but not their souls,For their souls dwell in the house of tomorrow,which you cannot visit, not even in your dreams." -Kahlil Gibran
"Said a hunted fox followed by twenty horsemen and a pack of twenty hounds, ""Of course they will kill me. But how poor and how stupid they must be. Surely it would not be worth while for twenty foxes riding on twenty asses and accompanied by twenty wolves to chase and kill one man." -Kahlil Gibran
"All these things have you said of beauty, Yet in truth you spoke not of her but of needs unsatisfied," -Kahlil Gibran
"It is to charge all things you fashion with a breath of your own spirit, and to know that all blessed dead are standing about you and watching. Work is love made visible." -Kahlil Gibran
"O rouxinol nega-se a aninhar na gaiola, para que a escravidão não seja o destino da sua cria." -Kahlil Gibran
"DEVIL Remember, one just man causes the Devil greater affliction than a million blind believers. WM-ST-62" -Kahlil Gibran
"If your heart is a volcano,how shall you expect flower to bloom?" -Kahlil Gibran
"Let there be spaces in your togetherness.And let the wind of the heavens dance between you." -Kahlil Gibran
"حينئذ نظر إلي، فأشرقت ظهيرة عينيه على روحي، وقال: إن لك كثير من المحبين، بيد أنني أنا وحدي أحبك، فإن بقية الرجال يحبون أنفسهم في قربك، أما أنا فأحبك في نفسك، إن بقية الرجال ينظرون فيك إلى جمال يذوي قبل انتهاء سنيهم، أما الجمال الذي إراه أنا فيك فإنه لن يزول، وفي خريف أيامك لن يخاف ذلك الجمال أن ينظر إلى ذاته في مرآة، ولن يقدر أحد أن يعيبه" -Kahlil Gibran
"And an old priest said, Speak to us of Religion.And he said:Who can separate his faith from his actions?Who can spread his hours before him, saying, ""This for God and this for myself; This for my soul, and this other for my body?""…He who wears his morality but as his best garment were better naked…And he to whom worshiping is a window, to open but also to shut, has not yet visited the house of his soul …" -Kahlil Gibran
"Bir gün, güzellik ve çirkinlik bir deniz kıyısında karşılaştılar ve dediler, 'haydi denize girelim.' Giysilerini çıkartıp suda yüzdüler. Bir süre sonra, çirkinlik kıyıya dönüp, güzelliğin giysilerine büründü ve yoluna gitti. Güzellik de denizden çıktı, kendi giysilerini bulamadı; ama çıplak olmak utandırıyordu onu, çaresiz çirkinliğin giysilerine büründü ve yoluna devam etti güzellik. O gün bugündür, erkekler ve kadınlar onları birbirine karıştırır. Ancak içlerinden güzelliğin yüzünü önceden görmüş kimileri vardır ki, giysilerine bakmaksızın tanırlar onu. Ve yine çirkinliğin yüzünü bilen kimileri vardır ki, gözlerinden tanırlar çirkinliği." -Kahlil Gibran
"The image of the morning sun in a dewdrop is not less than the sun. The reflection of life in your soul is not less than life.The dewdrop mirrors the light because it is one with light, and you reflect life because you and life are one." -Kahlil Gibran
"Einige Junge unter euch suchen das Vergnügen, als sei es alles, und sie werden getadelt und verurteilt. - Ich würde sie weder tadeln noch verurteilen. Ich würde sie suchen lassen." -Kahlil Gibran
"And you would accept the seasons of your heart, even as you have always accepted the seasons that pass over your fields." -Kahlil Gibran
"Perhaps the dark can veil trees and flowers from the eye. But it can't hide love from the soul." -Kahlil Gibran
"Poetry is not an opinion expressed. It is a song that rises from a bleeding wound or a smiling mouth." -Kahlil Gibran
"And the selfsame well from which your laughter rises was oftentimes filled with your tears. And how else can it be? The deeper that sorrow carves into your being, the more joy you can contain. Is not the cup that holds your wine the very cup that was burned in the potter's oven? And is not the lute that soothes your spirit the very wood that was hollowed with knives? When you are joyous, look deep into your heart and you shall find it is only that which has given you sorrow that is giving you joy. When you are sorrowful, look again in your heart, and you shall see that in truth you are weeping for that which has been your delight.Some of you say, 'Joy is greater than sorrow,' and others say, 'Nay, sorrow is the greater.'But I say unto you, they are inseparable.Together they come, and when one sits alone with you at your board, remember that the other is asleep upon your bed." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your friend is your needs answered." -Kahlil Gibran
"Oh human heart, woman is your own reflection, and whatever you are, she is; wherever you live, she lives; she is like religion if not interpreted by the ignorant, and like a moon, if not veiled with clouds, and like a breeze, if not poisoned with impurities." -Kahlil Gibran
"the very privilege of non-belief represents the victory of philosophy; otherwise the non-churchgoer would still face the lions or the stake. Gibran" -Kahlil Gibran
"سر!! الوقوف جبانة، والنظر إلى مدينة الماضي جهالة." -Kahlil Gibran
"People of Orphalese, beauty is life when life unveils her holy face. But you are life and you are the veil. Beauty is eternity gazing at itself in a mirror. But you are eternity and you are the mirror." -Kahlil Gibran
"گنجی که در اعماق نامحدود شما حبس شده است در لحظه ای که خود نمی دانید کشف خواهد شد . " -Kahlil Gibran
"NIGHTINGALE The nightingale does not make his nest in a cage lest slavery be the lot of its chicks. BW-ST-122" -Kahlil Gibran
"But if in your fear you would seek only love's peace and pleasure, then it is better for you that you cover your nakedness and pass out of love's threshing-floor." -Kahlil Gibran
"He hallado libertad y salvación en mi locura, la libertad de estar solo y a salvo de ser comprendido, porque aquellos que nos comprenden esclavizan algo nuestro." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن ذهابي الآن هو مثل ذهابي غدًا أو بعده ، لأن أيامنا مثل أوراق الخريف ، تتساقط وتتبدد أمام وجه الشمس ، فإن أسرعت بي الساعات إلى الأبدية فلأنها علمت بأن روحي قد اشتاقت إلى لقاء أمك ." -Kahlil Gibran
"Every man is two men; One is awake in the darkness, the other asleep in the light." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن عقلكم و هواكم هما الدفة والشراع لنفسكم الماخرة عباب اليم" -Kahlil Gibran
"The musician may sing to you of the rhythm which is in all space, but he cannot give you the ear which arrests the rhythm nor the voice that echoes it." -Kahlil Gibran
"...the timeless in you is aware of life's timelessness..." -Kahlil Gibran
"[I]m Hain des Tempels und im Schatten der Zitadelle habe ich die Freiesten unter euch ihre Freiheit als Joch und Handschellen tragen sehen." -Kahlil Gibran
"Who can separate his faith from his actions, or his belief from his occupations? Who can spread his hours before him, saying, 'This for God and this for myself; 'This for my soul and this other for my body'?" -Kahlil Gibran
"Much in you is still man, and much in you is not yet man, But a shapeless pigmy that walks asleep in the mist searching for its own awakening." -Kahlil Gibran
"Wenn die Liebe winkt, folge ihr..." -Kahlil Gibran
"let there be spaces in your togetherness." -Kahlil Gibran
"Darkness may hide the trees and the flowers from the eyes but it cannot hide love from the soul. S" -Kahlil Gibran
"Nur ein Leben, das das Leben im Körper sucht, fürchtet das Grab." -Kahlil Gibran
"But since you must kill to eat, and rob the newly born of its mother's milk to quench your thirst, let it then be an act of worship," -Kahlil Gibran
"[W]elcher Verdienst wäre größer als der Mut und das Vertrauen, ja auch die Nächstenliebe, die im Empfangen liegt?" -Kahlil Gibran
"He never hearkened to the dictates of his heart, but busied himself in obeying the voices of his environment. H e amused himself with shimmering objects that blinded his eyes and heart to life's secrets; his soul was diverted away from an understanding of the law of nature, and to a temporary self-gratification." -Kahlil Gibran
"Encontré la esclavitud sutil, que nombra a las cosas de otra manera... Llamando inteligencia a la astucia, y vacío a la sabiduría, y debilidad a la ternura, y cobardía a un firme rechazo." -Kahlil Gibran
"Die Einsicht eines Menschen verleiht ihre Flügel keinem anderen." -Kahlil Gibran
"... who can depart from his pain and his aloneness without regret?" -Kahlil Gibran
"I would not listen to a conqueror preaching to the conquered." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your children are not your children. They are the sons and daughters of Life's longing for itself. They come through you but not from you, And though they are with you yet they belong not to you." -Kahlil Gibran
"He who understands you is greater kin to you than your own brother. For even your own kindred may neither understand you nor know your true worth." -Kahlil Gibran
"Ada lubang antara khayalan dan pencapaian manusia yang hanya bisa dijembatani dengan kerinduannya" -Kahlil Gibran
"[I]hr könnt nur frei sein, wenn selbst der Wunsch, die Freiheit zu suchen, euch zum Zügel wird und wenn ihr aufhört, von Freiheit als Ziel und Erfüllung zu reden." -Kahlil Gibran
"[W]enn ihr nicht mit Liebe, sondern nur mit Widerwillen arbeiten könnt, lasst besser eure Arbeit [...] und nehmt Almosen von denen, die mit Freude arbeiten." -Kahlil Gibran
"Eure Kinder sind nicht eure Kinder. - Sie sind die Söhne und Töchter der Sehnsucht des Lebens nach sich selber." -Kahlil Gibran
"الصوت حين ينطلق لا يحمل معه جناحيه لسانهوشفته، لكنه يمضي وحيدا ينشد الأثير" -Kahlil Gibran
"رأيت المال بين أيدي المبذر شبكة شرورة، وبين أيدي البخيل مجلبة لمقت الناس، وبين أيدي الحكيم لم أر مالا." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your children are not your children.They are the sons and daughters of Life's longing for itself.They come through you but not from you,And though they are with you yet they belong not to you." -Kahlil Gibran
"Kapatılmışsınız ama yalnız değilsiniz. Açık sokaklarda yürüyüp de tutsak olan niceleri var" -Kahlil Gibran
"Orang terkuat bukan mereka yang selalumenang..melainkan mereka yang tetap tegar ketika mereka jatuh.." -Kahlil Gibran
"It were wiser to speak less of God, Whom we cannot understand, and more of each other, whom we may understand." -Kahlil Gibran
"Where shall you seek beauty, and how shall you find her unless she herself be your way and your guide?" -Kahlil Gibran
"Long were you a dream in your mother's sleep, and then she woke to give you birth." -Kahlil Gibran
"A seeker of silences am I, and what treasure have I found in silences that I may dispense with confidence? If this is my day of harvest, in what fields have I sowed the seed, and in what unremembered seasons?" -Kahlil Gibran
"soul." -Kahlil Gibran
"When you reach the heart of life you shall find beauty in all things, even in the eyes that are blind to beauty." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your children are not your children They are sons and daughters of life's longing for itself." -Kahlil Gibran
"النفس الفارحة بذهابها من هذا العالم تغتفر جميع زلات هذا العالم" -Kahlil Gibran
"Now let us play hide and seek. Should you hide in my heart it would not be difficult to find you. But should you hide behind your own shell, then it would be useless for anyone to seek you." -Kahlil Gibran
"When My Sorrow Was Born         When my Sorrow was born I nursed it with care, and watched over it with loving tenderness. And my Sorrow grew like all living things, strong and beautiful and full of wondrous delights. And we loved one another, my Sorrow and I, and we loved the world about us; for Sorrow had a kindly heart and mine was kindly with Sorrow. And when we conversed, my Sorrow and I, our days were winged and our nights were girdled with dreams; for Sorrow had an eloquent tongue, and mine was eloquent with Sorrow. And when we sang together, my Sorrow and I, our neighbors sat at their windows and listened; for our songs were deep as the sea and our melodies were full of strange memories. And when we walked together, my Sorrow and I, people gazed at us with gentle eyes and whispered in words of exceeding sweetness. And there were those who looked with envy upon us, for Sorrow was a noble thing and I was proud with Sorrow. But my Sorrow died, like all living things, and alone I am left to muse and ponder. And now when I speak my words fall heavily upon my ears. And when I sing my songs my neighbours come not to listen. And when I walk the streets no one looks at me. Only in my sleep I hear voices saying in pity, 'See, there lies the man whose Sorrow is dead.'         And When My Joy was Born         And when my Joy was born, I held it in my arms and stood on the house-top shouting, 'Come ye, my neighbours, come and see, for Joy this day is born unto me. Come and behold this gladsome thing that laugheth in the sun.' But none of my neighbours came to look upon my Joy, and great was my astonishment. And every day for seven moons I proclaimed my Joy from the house-top—and yet no one heeded me. And my Joy and I were alone, unsought and unvisited. Then my Joy grew pale and weary because no other heart but mine held its loveliness and no other lips kissed its lips. Then my Joy died of isolation. And now I only remember my dead Joy in remembering my dead Sorrow. But memory is an autumn leaf that murmurs a while in the wind and then is heard no more." -Kahlil Gibran
"After a deep silence, mingled with sweet dreams, I asked, ""Speak to me of that beauty which the people interpret and define, each one according to his own conception; I have seen her honoured and worshipped in different ways and manners.""She answered, ""Beauty is that which attracts your soul, and that which loves to give and not to receive. When you meet Beauty, you feel that the hands deep within your inner self are stretched forth to bring her into the domain of your heart. It is the magnificence combined of sorrow and joy; it is the Unseen which you see, and the Vague which you understand, and the Mute which you hear−−it is the Holy of Holies that begins in yourself and ends vastly beyond your earthly imagination." -Kahlil Gibran
"Yesterda is nothing but, Today's Memory and Tomorrow is Today's Dream" -Kahlil Gibran
"Sačuvaj me od onoga koji istinu ne može reći, a da ne ubode;od onog čovjeka s dobrim izražavanjem ali lošim namjeramai od onog koji samopoštovanje stječe pronalazeći pogreške u drugih." -Kahlil Gibran
"I simply can't relax. My mind is like a brook, always running, always seeking, always murmuring. I was born with an arrow in my heart, and it is painful to pull it and it is painful to leave it." -Kahlil Gibran
"Uçsuz bucaksız bir damla katılacak uçsuz bucaksız bir okyanusa." -Kahlil Gibran
"When a person loses a friend, he consoles himself with the many other friends about him, and if he loses his gold, he meditates for a while and casts misfortune from his mind, especially when he finds himself healthy and still laden with ambition. But when a man loses the ease of his heart, where can he find comfort, and with what can he replace it? What mind can master it? When death strikes close by, you will suffer. But when the day and the night pass, you will feel the smooth touch of the soft fingers of Life; then you will smile and rejoice. " -Kahlil Gibran
"Would that you could live on the fragrance of the earth, and like an air plant be sustained by light.Bu since you must kill to eat, and rob the newly born of its mother's milk to quench your thirst, let it then be an act of worship." -Kahlil Gibran
"Niemand kann euch etwas eröffnen, das nicht schon im Dämmern eures Wissens schlummert." -Kahlil Gibran
"Wird die Nachtigall die Stille der Nacht verletzen oder der Glühwurm die Sterne?" -Kahlil Gibran
"But let there be spaces in your togetherness. And let the winds of the heavens dance between you." -Kahlil Gibran
"Surely there is no greater gift to a man than that which turns all his aims into parching lips and all life into a fountain." -Kahlil Gibran
"الملامة لا تميل بالقلب عن الحب، والعذل لا يصرف النفس عن الحقيقة، والإنسان بين قلبه ونفسه كغصن لين في مهب ريح الجنوب وريح الشمال." -Kahlil Gibran
"Jesus loved me and I knew not why. And I loved him because He quickened my spirit to heights beyond my stature, and to depths beyond my sounding. Love is a sacred mystery. To those who love, it remains forever wordless; But to those who do not love, it may be but a heartless jest." -Kahlil Gibran
"You often say, 'I would give, but only to the deserving.' The trees in your orchard say not so, nor the flocks in your pasture. They give that they may live, for to withhold is to perish." -Kahlil Gibran
"كذا تُحيي الشمس الحقول بحرارتها، وبحرارتها تُميتها." -Kahlil Gibran
"When you are sorrowful look again in your heart, and you shall see that in truth you are weeping for that which has been your delight. Some of you say, 'Joy is greater than sorrow,' and others say, 'Nay, sorrow is the greater.' But I say unto you, they are inseparable." -Kahlil Gibran
"•	أنا لا ماضي لي ولا مستقبل، وإذا ما أقمت هنا ففي إقامتي رحيل، و إذا ما رحلت ففي رحيلي إقامة، الحب والموت وحدهما يبدّلان الأشياء كلها. ~ رمل و زبد" -Kahlil Gibran
"let your soul exalt your reason to the height ofpassion, that it may sing; And let it direct your passion with reason, that your passion may live through its own daily resurrection, and like the phoenix rise above its own ashes." -Kahlil Gibran
"Debe haber algo extrañamente sagrado en la sal: Está en nuestras lágrimas y en mar." -Kahlil Gibran
"On Joy and Sorrow Then a woman said, Speak to us of Joy and Sorrow. And he answered: your joy is your sorrow unmasked. And the self same well from which your laughter rises was oftentimes filled with your tears. And how else can it be? The deeper that sorrow carves into your being, the more joy you can contain. Is not the cup that holds your wine the very cup that was burned in the potter's oven? And is not the lute that soothes your spirit the very wood that was hollowed with knives? When you are joyous, look deep into your heart and you shall find it is only that which has given you sorrow that is giving you joy. When you are sorrowful, look again in your heart, and you shall see in truth you are weeping for that which has been your delight. Some of you say, 'Joy is greater than sorrow,' and others say, 'Nay, sorrow is the greater.' But I say unto you, they are inseparable. Together they come, and when one sits alone with you at your board, remember that the other is asleep upon your bed. Verily you are suspended like scales between your sorrow and your joy. Only when you are empty are you at standstill and balanced. When the treasure keeper lifts you to weigh his gold and his silver, needs must your joy or your sorrow rise or fall." -Kahlil Gibran
"But let there be spaces in your togetherness, And let the winds of the heavens dance between you. Love one another, but make not a bond of love: Let it rather be a moving sea between the shores of your souls." -Kahlil Gibran
"Surely you would not honour one guest above the other; for he who is more mindful of one loses the love and the faith of both." -Kahlil Gibran
"ان مملكتي ليست من هذه الارض ، ومجلسي لم يبنَ على جماجم أسلافكم" -Kahlil Gibran
"To be able to look back upon one's life in satisfaction, is to live twice" -Kahlil Gibran
"Von der FreundschaftUnd ein junger Mann sagte: Sprich uns von der Freundschaft.Und er antwortete und sagte:Euer Freund ist die Antwort auf eure Nöte. Er ist das Feld, das ihr mit Liebe besät und mit Dankbarkeit erntet.Und er ist euer Tisch und euer Herd.Denn ihr kommt zu ihm mit eurem Hunger, und ihr sucht euren Frieden bei ihm.Wenn euer Freund frei heraus spricht, fürchtet ihr weder das ""Nein"" in euren Gedanken, noch haltet ihr mit dem ""Ja"" zurück.Und wenn er schweigt, hört euer Herz nicht auf, dem seinen zu lauschen;Denn in der Freundschaft werden alle Gedanken, alle Wünsche, alle Erwartungen ohne Worte geboren und geteilt, mit Freude, die keinen Beifall braucht.Wenn ihr von eurem Freund weggeht, trauert ihr nicht;Denn was ihr am meisten an ihm liebt, ist vielleicht in seiner Abwesenheit klarer, wie der Berg dem Bergsteiger von der Ebene aus klarer erscheint.Und die Freundschaft soll keinen anderen Zweck haben, als den Geist zu vertiefen.Denn Liebe, die etwas anderes sucht als die Offenbarung ihres eigenen Mysteriums, ist nicht Liebe, sondern ein ausgeworfenes Netz: und nur das Nutzlose wird gefangen.Und laßt euer Bestes für euren Freund sein. Wenn er die Ebbe eurer Gezeiten kennen muß, laßt ihn auch das Hochwasser kennen.Denn was ist ein Freund, wenn ihr ihn nur aufsucht, um die Stunden totzuschlagen?Sucht ihn auf, um die Stunden mit ihm zu erleben.Denn er ist da, eure Bedürfnisse zu befriedigen, nicht aber eure Leere auszufüllen.Und in der Süße der Freundschaft laßt Lachen sein und geteilte Freude.Denn im Tau kleiner Dinge findet das Herz seinen Morgen und wird erfrischt." -Kahlil Gibran
"عقل و عشق را گرامی بدارید، زیرا میان دو مهمان نباید فرق گذاشت. و اگر از یکی بیش از دیگری مهمان‌نوازی کنید، دوستی و اعتماد هر دو را از دست می‌دهید... در عقل بیارامید و در خواهش‌ها به حرکت درآیید!" -Kahlil Gibran
"Love has no other desire but to fulfill itself. To melt and be like a running brook that sings its melody to the night. To wake at dawn with a winged heart and give thanks for another day of loving.." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your reason and your passion are the rudder and sails of your seafaring soul" -Kahlil Gibran
"Miserable is the woman who arises from the inattentiveness and restlessness of youth and finds herself in the home of a man showering her with his glittering gold and precious gifts and according her all the honours and grace of lavish entertainment but unable to satisfy her soul with the heavenly wine which God pours from the eyes of a man into the heart of a woman. " -Kahlil Gibran
"Die Erde gibt euch ihre Frucht, und es wird euch an nichts mangeln, wenn ihr nur wißt, wie ihr eure Hände füllt. Im Austausch der Gaben der Erde werdet ihr Fülle finden und gesättigt sein. Doch wenn der Austausch nicht in Liebe und freundlicher Gerechtigkeit stattfindet, wird er bloß einige zur Gier und andere zum Hunger führen." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your other self is always sorry for you. But your other self grows on sorrow, so all is well" -Kahlil Gibran
"Oftentimes have I heard you speak of one who commits a wrong as though he were not one of you, but a stranger unto you and an intruder upon your world.But I say that even as the holy and the righteous cannot rise beyond the highest which is in each one of you,So the wicked and the weak cannot fall lower than the lowest which is in you also.And as a single leaf turns not yellow but with the silent knowledge of the whole tree,So the wrong-doer cannot do wrong without the hidden will of you all.Like a procession you walk together towards your god-self.You are the way and the wayfarers.And when one of you falls down he falls for those behind him, a caution against the stumbling stone.Ay, and he falls for those ahead of him, who though faster and surer of foot, yet removed not the stumbling stone." -Kahlil Gibran
"You are not enclosed within your bodies, nor confined to houses or fields. That which is you dwells above the mountain and roves with the wind. It is not a thing that crawls into the sun for warmth or digs holes into darkness for safety, But a thing free, a spirit that envelops the earth and moves in the ether. If these be vague words, then seek not to clear them. Vague and nebulous is the beginning of all things, but not their end," -Kahlil Gibran
"Farewell to you and the youth I have spent with you. It was but yesterday we met in a dream. You have sung to me in my aloneness and I of your longings have built a tower in the sky. ...If in the twilight of memory we should meet once more, we shall speak again together and you shall sing to me a deeper song. And if our hands should meet in another dream we shall build another tower in the sky." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن النفس الحزينة المتألمة تجد راحة بانضمامها إلى نفس أخرى تماثلها بالشعور وتشاركها بالإحساس، مثلما يستأنس الغريب بالغريب في أرض بعيدة عن وطنهما، فالقلوب التي تدنيها أوجاع الكآبة بعضها من بعض لا تفرِّقها بهجة الأفراح وبهرجتها. فرابطة الحزن أقوى في النفوس من روابط الغبطة والسرور. والحب الذي تغسله العيون بدموعها يظل طاهرًا وجميلًا وخالدًا." -Kahlil Gibran
"For what is your friend that you should seek him with hours to kill?Seek him always with hours to live." -Kahlil Gibran
"And as a single leaf turns not yellow but with the silent knowledge of the whole tree," -Kahlil Gibran
"إنكم تعطون قليلا عندما تعطون من حطام ما تملكونأما العطاء الحقيقي فهو أن يعطي الإنسان من نفسه" -Kahlil Gibran
"And when the earth shall claim your limbs, then shall you truly dance." -Kahlil Gibran
"Ready am I to go, and my eagerness with sails full set awaits the wind. Only another breath will I breathe in this still air, only another loving look cast backward, And then I shall stand among you, a seafarer among seafarers." -Kahlil Gibran
"قالت صحيفة ورق بيضاء كالثلج: (قد بُرئتُ نقية طاهرة وسأظلّ نقية إلى الأبد. وإنني لأوثر أن أُحرق وأتحول إلى رماد أبيض؛ على أن آذن للظلمة فتدنو مني وللأقذار فتلامسني).فسمعت قنينة الحبر قولها وضحكت في قلبها القاتم المظلم ولكنها خافت ولم تدنُ منها.وسمعتها الأقلام أيضاً على اختلاف ألوانها ولم تقربها قط. وهكذا ظلت صحيفة الورق البيضاء كالثلج -نقية طاهرة- ولكن .... فارغة." -Kahlil Gibran
"Hate is a dead thing. Who of you would be a tomb?" -Kahlil Gibran
"Waiting is the hoofs of time." -Kahlil Gibran
"Let there be space in your togetherness, and let the winds of the heavens dance between you." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your pain is the breaking of the shell that encloses your understanding. Even as the stone of the fruit must break, that its heart may stand in the sun, so must you know pain." -Kahlil Gibran
"Much of your pain is self-chosen. It is the bitter potion by which the physician within you heals your sick self. Therefore trust the physician, and drink his remedy in silence and tranquillity: For his hand, though heavy and hard, is guided by the tender hand of the Unseen," -Kahlil Gibran
"Say not, 'I have found the path of the soul.' Say rather, 'I have met the soul walking upon my path.' For the soul walks upon all paths. The soul walks not upon a line, neither does it grow like a reed. The soul unfolds itself, like a lotus of countless petals." -Kahlil Gibran
"And you, vast sea, sleeping mother, Who alone are peace and freedom to the river and the stream, Only another winding will this stream make, only another murmur in this glade, And then I shall come to you, a boundless drop to a boundless ocean." -Kahlil Gibran
"Verily the kindness that gazes upon itself in a mirror turns to stone,And a good deed that calls itself by tender names becomes the parent to a curse" -Kahlil Gibran
"Say not, 'I have found the truth,' but rather, 'I have found a truth.' Say not, 'I have found the path of the soul.' Say rather, 'I have met the soul walking upon my path.' For the soul walks upon all paths. The soul walks not upon a line, neither does it grow like a reed. The soul unfolds itself, like a lotus of countless petals." -Kahlil Gibran
"How mean am I when life gives me gold and I give you silver, and yet I deem myself generous." -Kahlil Gibran
"HELL Hell is not in torture; Hell is in an empty heart.    MS-74" -Kahlil Gibran
"Remembrance is a form of meeting.Forgetfulness is a form of freedom." -Kahlil Gibran
"You often say, 'I would give, but only to the deserving.' The trees in your orchard say not so, neither the flocks in your pasture. They give that they may live, for to withhold is to perish." -Kahlil Gibran
"And I have found both freedom and safety in my madness; the freedom of loneliness and the safety from being understood, for those who understand us enslave something in us.But let me not be too proud of my safety. Even a Thief in a jail is safe from another thief." -Kahlil Gibran
"the mountain to the climber is clearer from the plain." -Kahlil Gibran
"Votre joie est votre tristesse sans masque." -Kahlil Gibran
"The owl whose night-bound eyes are blind unto the day cannot unveil the mystery of light. If you would indeed behold the spirit of death, open your heart wide unto the body of life. For life and death are one, even as the river and the sea are one." -Kahlil Gibran
"When you work you are a flute through whose heart the whispering of the hours turn to music." -Kahlil Gibran
"TORCH The human soul is but a part of a burning torch which God separated from Himself at Creation. WM-ST-67" -Kahlil Gibran
"Farewell to you and the youth I have spent with you. It was but yesterday we met in a dream. You have sung to me in my aloneness, and I of your longings have built a tower in the sky. But now our sleep has fled and our dream is over, and it is no longer dawn. The noontide is upon us and our half waking has turned to fuller day, and we must part. If in the twilight of memory, we should meet once more, we shall speak again together and you shall sing to me a deeper song." -Kahlil Gibran
"Geht auf eure Felder und auf eure Gärten, und ihr werdet lernen, daß es der Biene ein Vergnügen ist, Honig aus der Blume zu sammeln, Aber es isr auch der Blume ein Vergnügen, ihren Honig der Biene zu geben.Denn der Biene ist die Blume eib Quell des Lebens, Und der Blume ist die Biene ein Bote der Liebe,Und beiden, Biene und Blume, ist es Bedüfnis und Verzückung, Vergnügen zu geben und zu nehmen." -Kahlil Gibran
"لو جلست على السحابة لما رأيت الحدّ الفاصل بين بلاد وبلاد ولا الحجر الفاصل بين حقل وحقل.!ولكن يا للأسف إنك لا تستطيع أن تجلس على السحابة" -Kahlil Gibran
"Your children are not your children. They are the sons and daughters of Life's longing for itself." -Kahlil Gibran
"Y en mi locura encntré la libertad y la seguridad: la libertad de la soledad y la seguridad que da el que no le entiendan a uno, pues quienes nos comprenden esclavizan algo de nosotros." -Kahlil Gibran
"Euer tägliches Leben ist euer Tempel und eure Religion." -Kahlil Gibran
"All our words are but crumbs that fall down from the feast of the mind" -Kahlil Gibran
"If you would rise but a cubit above race and country and self you would indeed become godlike." -Kahlil Gibran
"Wir Wanderer, die immer den einsameren Weg suchen, beginnen keinen Tag, wo wir den letzten beendet haben; und kein Sonnenaufgang findet uns, wo der Sonnenuntergang uns verließ.Selbst während die Erde schläft, reisen wir." -Kahlil Gibran
"من يُشَنِّفه صوت الماضي، لا يستطيع مخاطبة المستقبل." -Kahlil Gibran
"الحرب والأمم الصغيرةكان في أحد المروج نعجة وحمل يرعيان، وكان فوقهما في الجو نسرٌ يحوم ناظراً إلى الحمل بعين جائعة يبغي افتراسه، وبينما هو يهيم بالهبوط لاقتناص فريسته، جاء نسراً آخر وبدأ يرفرف فوق النعجة وصغيرها وفي إعماقه جشع زميله.فتلاقيا وتقاتلا حتى ملأ صراخهما الوحشي أطراف الفضاء. فرفعت النعجة نظرها إليهما منذهلة، والتفتت إلى حملها وقالت: "" تأمل يا ولدي، ما أغرب قتال هذين الطائرين الكريمين أوليس من العار عليهما أن يتقاتلا، وهذا الجو الواسع كافٍ لكليهما ليعشيا متسالمين؟ ولكن صلّ يا صغيري، صلّ في قلبك إلى الله، لكي يرسل سلاماً إلى أخويك المجنحين!""فصل الحمل من إعماق قلبه !" -Kahlil Gibran
"I would not exchange the sorrows of my heart for the joys of the multitude. And I would not have the tears that sadness makes to flow from my every part, turn to laughter. I would that my life remain a tear and a smile. ...A tear to unite me with those of broken heart; a smile to be a sign of my joy in existence." -Kahlil Gibran
"A woman protested saying, ""Of course it was a righteous war. My son fell in it.""." -Kahlil Gibran
"You shall be free indeed when your days are not without a care nor your nights without a want and a grief, But rather when these things girdle your life and yet you rise above them naked and unbound." -Kahlil Gibran
"FLOWERS The flowers of the field are the children of sun's affection and nature's love; and the children of men are the flowers of love and compassion. BW-ST-122" -Kahlil Gibran
"هو خيالي يكتب ليفسد أخلاق الناشئة" -Kahlil Gibran
"A hermit is one who renounces the world of fragments that he may enjoy the world wholly and without interruption." -Kahlil Gibran
"In the morning, when I walked in the fields, I saw the token of Eternity in the awakening of nature, and when I sat by the seashore I heard the waves singing the song of Eternity." -Kahlil Gibran
"Said a sheet of snow-white paper, 'Pure was I created, and pure will I remain forever. I would rather be burnt and turn to white ashes than suffer darkness to touch me or the unclean to come near me.'  The ink-bottle heard what the paper was saying, and it laughed in its dark heart; but it never dared to approach her. And the multicoloured pencils heard her also, and they too never came near her.  And the snow-white sheet of paper did remain pure and chaste forever, pure and chaste—and empty." -Kahlil Gibran
"Und eine gute Tat, die sich mit zärtlichem Namen nennt, gebiert einen Fluch." -Kahlil Gibran
"Denn was ist das Böse anderes als das Gute, von seinem eigenen Hunger und Durst gequält?" -Kahlil Gibran
"A woman may veil her face with a smile." -Kahlil Gibran
"The teacher who walks in the shadow of the temple, among his followers, gives not of his wisdom but rather of his faith and his lovingness. If he is indeed wise he does not bid you enter the house of his wisdom, but rather leads you to the threshold of your own mind." -Kahlil Gibran
"I prefer to be a dreamer among the humblest, with visions to be realized, than lord among those without dreams or desires" -Kahlil Gibran
"An old man likes to return in memory to the days of his youth like a stranger wholongs to go back to his own country. He delights to tell stories of the past like a poet who takes pleasure in reciting his best poem. He lives spiritually in the past because the present passes swiftly, and the future seems to him an approach to the oblivion of the grave. An hour full of old memories passed like the shadows of the trees over the grass" -Kahlil Gibran
"Porque el amor que no busca más que la aclaración de su propio misterio, no es amor sino una red lanzada; y solamente lo inútil es cogido." -Kahlil Gibran
"[I]n Wahrheit ist es das Leben, das dem Leben gibt – während ihr, die ihr euch als Gebende fühlt, nichts anderes seid als Zeugen." -Kahlil Gibran
"Love and doubt have never been on speaking terms." -Kahlil Gibran
"Was the love of Judas' mother of her son less than the love of Mary for Jesus?" -Kahlil Gibran
"There lies a green field between the scholar and the poet; should the scholar cross it he becomes a wise man; should the poet cross it, he becomes a prophet." -Kahlil Gibran
"In that year I was reborn and unless a person is born again his life will remain like a blank sheet in the book of existence. In that year, I saw the angels of heaven looking at me through the eyes of a beautiful woman. I also saw the devils of hell raging in the heart of an evil man. He who does not see the angels and devils in the beauty and malice of life will be far removed from knowledge, and his spirit will be empty of affection." -Kahlil Gibran
"When you crush an apple with your teeth, say to it in your heart 1. Your seeds shall live in my body2. And the buds of your tomorrow shall blossom in my heart3. And your fragrance shall be my breathAnd togethher we shall rejoice through all the seasons" -Kahlil Gibran
"حتى الربيع يروم تعزيتنا، وحتى الأشجار، تود البكاء من أجلنا. كل ما هنالك على الأرض، إن كان كل ما هنالك على الأرض يستطيع أن يعرف انحدارنا وحزننا، يرثي لنا، وينتحب من أجلنا""." -Kahlil Gibran
"I upravo kada ste stigli do vrha planine, tek tada bi trebalo da počnete uspon." -Kahlil Gibran
"To melt and be like a running brook that sings its melody to the night. To know the pain of too much tenderness. To be wounded by your own understanding of love; And to bleed willingly and joyfully. To wake at dawn with a winged heart and give thanks for another day of loving; To rest at the noon hour and meditate love's ecstasy; To return home at eventide with gratitude; And then to sleep with a prayer for the beloved in your heart and a song of praise upon your lips." -Kahlil Gibran
"قلت لكِ مرة إن حياتي مقسومة إلى حياتين وإني أصرف الواحدة منهما بين العمل والناس والثانية في الضباب. قد كان ذلك بالمس , أما اليوم فقد توحدت حياتي وصرت أشتغل في الضباب وأجتمع بالناس في الضباب ,وأنام وأحلم ثم استيقظ وأنا في الضباب . هي نشوة محاطة بحفيف الجنحة , فالوحدة فيها ليست بالوحدة ,وألم الحنين إلى غير المعروف أطيب من كل شيء عرفته . هي غيبوبة ربانية يا ميّ , هي غيبوبة ربانية تدنيالبعيد وتبين الخفي وتغمر كل شيء بالنور . أنا أعلم الن أن الحياة بدون هذا النجذاب النفسي ليست سوىقشور بغير لباب . وأحقق أن كل ما نقوله ونفعله ونفكر به ل يساوي دقيقة واحدة نصرفها في ضبابنا" -Kahlil Gibran
"The deeper sorrow carves into your being, the more joy you can contain." -Kahlil Gibran
"ای مردمان اُرفالِس شما می توانید دهل را در پلاس بپیچید و سیم های ساز را پاره کنید اما کیست که بتواند چکاوک را از خواندن باز دارد" -Kahlil Gibran
"أنتم الأقواس، منها ينطلق أبناؤكم سهاماً حيَّة." -Kahlil Gibran
"When you meet your friend on the roadside or in the market place, let the spirit in you move your lips and direct your tongue. Let the voice within your voice speak to the ear of his ear; For his soul will keep the truth of your heart as the taste of the wine is remembered. When the colour is forgotten and the vessel is no more." -Kahlil Gibran
"Humanity is a brilliant riverSinging its way and carrying withIt the mountains' secrets intoThe heart of the sea; but you, My Countrymen, are stagnantMarshes invested with insectsAnd vipers." -Kahlil Gibran
"Who never ate his bread in sorrow, Who never spent the darksome hours Weeping, and watching for the morrow,-- He knows ye not, ye gloomy Powers." -Kahlil Gibran
"Ready am I to go, and my eagerness with sails full set awaits the wind.Only another breath will I breathe in this still air, only another loving look cast backward," -Kahlil Gibran
"You cannot separate the just from the unjust and the good from the wicked; For they stand together before the face of the sun even as the black thread and the white are woven together." -Kahlil Gibran
"And in much of your talking, thinking is half murdered. For thought is a bird of space, that in a cage of words may indeed unfold its wings but cannot fly. There" -Kahlil Gibran
"Your children are not your children. They are the sons and daughters of Life's longing for itself. They come through you but not from you, And though they are with you yet they belong not to you." -Kahlil Gibran
"خوشبختي ،افسانه ي موهومي است كه در طلب آنيم ولي اگر روزي پديدار شود ،به يقين رنجه اش خواهيم كرد، همانند رودي كه شتابان به سوي دشت جاري سات،اما چون به آن ميرسد كند و گل آلود ميشود" -Kahlil Gibran
"You often say, 'I would give, but only to the deserving.'The trees in your orchard say not so, nor the flocks in your pasture.They give that they may live, for to withhold is to perish." -Kahlil Gibran
"modesty is for a shield against the eye of the unclean." -Kahlil Gibran
"Love is forever shy of beauty, yet beauty shall forever be pursued by love." -Kahlil Gibran
"Schönheit ist kein Bedürfnis, sondern eine Verzückung." -Kahlil Gibran
"Debe haber algo extrañamente sagrado en la sal: Está en nuestras lagrimas y en el mar." -Kahlil Gibran
"بالهاي شكسته" -Kahlil Gibran
"You may tie my hands with chains and my feet with shackles, and put me in the dark prison, but who shall not enslave my thinking, for it is free, like the breeze in the spacious sky." -Kahlil Gibran
"Vi sono istanti che contengono secoli di separazione. E tuttavia la separazione non è che un dissolversi della mente. Forse noi non ci siamo mai separati." -Kahlil Gibran
"Shall the nightingale offend the stillness of the night, or the firefly the stars? And shall your flame or your smoke burden the wind?" -Kahlil Gibran
"And tell me, people of Orphalese, what have you in these houses? And what is it you guard with fastened doors? Have you peace, the quiet urge that reveals your power? Have you remembrances, the glimmering arches that span the summits of the mind? Have you beauty, that leads the heart from things fashioned of wood and stone to the holy mountain? Tell me, have you these in your houses? Or have you only comfort, and the lust for comfort, that stealthy thing that enters the house a guest, and then becomes a host, and then a master?" -Kahlil Gibran
"You often say, ""I would give, but only to the deserving."" The trees in your orchard say not so, nor the flocks in your pastures. They give that they may live, for to withhold is to perish.   They" -Kahlil Gibran
"Upon a lonely mountain, there lived two hermits who worshipped God and loved one another. Now these two hermits had one earthen bowl, and this was their only possession. One day an evil spirit entered into the heart of the older hermit and he came to the younger and said, 'It is long that we have lived together. The time has come for us to part. Let us divide our possessions.' Then the younger hermit was saddened and he said, 'It grieves me, Brother, that thou shouldst leave me. But if thou must needs go, so be it,' and he brought the earthen bowl and gave it to him saying, 'We cannot divide it, Brother, let it be thine.' Then the older hermit said, 'Charity I will not accept. I will take nothing but mine own. It must be divided.' And the younger one said, 'If the bowl be broken, of what use would it be to thee or to me? If it be thy pleasure let us rather cast a lot.' But the older hermit said again, 'I will have but justice and mine own, and I will not trust justice and mine own to vain chance. The bowl must be divided.' Then the younger hermit could reason no further and he said, 'If it be indeed thy will, and if even so thou wouldst have it let us now break the bowl.' But the face of the older hermit grew exceedingly dark, and he cried, 'O thou cursed coward, thou wouldst not fight." -Kahlil Gibran
"إنّ قلوبكم لتَعرف في سكينتها أَسرار الأَيّام والليالي. ولكنّ آذانكم تتعطّش إلى سماع ما تعرفه قلوبكم. فأنتم تصرّون على أن تعرفوا بالكلام ذاك الذي عرفتموه دائمًا بالفكر." -Kahlil Gibran
"Auch ist es kein Gedanke, den ich hinter mir lasse, sondern ein Herz, süß vor Hunger und Durst." -Kahlil Gibran
"Is not the dread of thirst when your well is full, the thirst that is unquenchable?" -Kahlil Gibran
"Sons of my ancient mother, you riders of the tides, How often have you sailed in my dreams. And now you come in my awakening, which is my deeper dream. Ready am I to go, and my eagerness with sails full set awaits the wind. Only another breath will I breathe in this still air, only another loving look cast backward, And then I shall stand among you, a seafarer among seafarers." -Kahlil Gibran
"When you are joyous, look deep into your heart and you shall find it is only that which has given you sorrow that is giving you joy. When you are sorrowful, look again in your heart, and you shall see that in truth you are weeping for that which has been your delight." -Kahlil Gibran
"هو الخوف جعل آباءكم يحشرونكم و أجدادكم يحشرونكم جماعات جماعاتو ذلك الخوف سيرافقكم بعد و لو لأجل قصيرو لأجل قصير ستبقى أسوار مدينتكم حاجزا ما بين مواقدكم و بين حقولكم" -Kahlil Gibran
"in much of your talking, thinking is half murdered." -Kahlil Gibran
"Though his ways are hard and steep." -Kahlil Gibran
"You delight in laying down laws, Yet you delight more in breaking them." -Kahlil Gibran
"The poet is a pure spring from which all thirsty souls may drink." -Kahlil Gibran
"Wenn [der Lehrer] wirklich weise ist, fordert er euch nicht auf, ins Haus seiner Weisheit einzutreten, sondern führt euch an die Schwelle eures eigenen Geistes." -Kahlil Gibran
"Those to whom love has not given wings cannot fly behind the cloud of appearances to see the magic world in which Selma's spirit and mine existed together in that sorrowfully happy hour. Those whom Love has not chosen as followers do not hear when Love calls. This story is not for them. Even if they should comprehend these pages, they would not be able to grasp the shadowy meanings which are not clothed in words and do not reside on paper." -Kahlil Gibran
"Pleasure is a freedom-song, But it is not freedom. It is the blossoming of your desires, But it is not their fruit. It is a depth calling unto a height, But it is not the deep nor the high." -Kahlil Gibran
"You may give them your love but not your thougts, For they have their own thoughts. You may house their bodies but not their souls, For their souls dwell in the house of tomorrow, which you cannot visit, not even in your dreams." -Kahlil Gibran
"Dig anywhere in the earth and you will find a treasure, only you must dig with the faith of a peasant." -Kahlil Gibran
"Ihr seid gut, wenn ihr eins mit euch seid." -Kahlil Gibran
"The human heart cries out for help; the human soul implores us for deliverance; but we do not heed their cries, for we neither hear nor understand. But the man who hears and understands we call mad, and flee from him." -Kahlil Gibran
"Life is deep and high and distant; and though only your vast vision can reach even her feet, yet she is near; and though only the breath of your breath reaches her heart, the shadow of your shadow crosses her face, and the echo of your faintest cry becomes a spring and an autumn in her breast.And life is veiled and hidden, even as your greater self is hidden and veiled. Yet when Life speaks, all the winds become words; and when she speaks again, the smiles upon your lips and the tears in your eyes turn also into words. When she sings, the deaf hear and are held; and when she comes walking, the sightless behold her and are amazed and follow her in wonder and astonishment. - The Garden of The Prophet" -Kahlil Gibran
"You are good when you walk to your goal firmly and with bold steps. Yet you are not evil when you go thither limping. Even those who limp go not backward. But you who are strong and swift, see that you do not limp before the lame, deeming it kindness." -Kahlil Gibran
"The freest song comes not through bars and wires." -Kahlil Gibran
"Seven centuries ago seven white doves rose from a deep valley flying to the snow-white summit of the mountain. One of the seven men who watched the flight said, ""I see a black spot on the wing of the seventh dove.""Today the people in that valley tell of seven black doves who flew to the summit of the snowy mountain." -Kahlil Gibran
"You shall be free indeed when your days are not without a care nor your nights without a want and a grief, But rather when these things girdle your life and yet you rise above them naked and unbound." -Kahlil Gibran
"Dengan matanya yang kecil, manusia hanya memandang sesuatu secara lahiriah semata dan tidak memandang misteri-misteri yang tersembunyi di baliknya. Dalam ketidak pastiannya, mereka menghakimi dan dalam kebutaannya mereka menghujat. Yang bersalah dan yang tak berdosa, yang baik dan yang jahat adalah sama bagi mereka." -Kahlil Gibran
"Ist nicht jede Tat und jede Betrachtung Religion?" -Kahlil Gibran
"Even those who limp go not backward." -Kahlil Gibran
"Und euer Körper ist die Harfe eurer Seele, Und es ist an euch, süße Musik aus ihm zu locken oder wirre Töne." -Kahlil Gibran
"There are those who give little of the much which they have — and they give it for recognition and their hidden desire makes their gifts unwholesome. And there are those who have little and give it all. These are the believers in life and the bounty of life, and their coffer is never empty. There are those who give with joy, and that joy is their reward. And there are those who give with pain, and that pain is their baptism. And there are those who give and know not pain in giving, nor do they seek joy, nor give with mindfulness of virtue; They give as in yonder valley the myrtle breathes its fragrance into space." -Kahlil Gibran
"أنا أندب الشرق لأن الرقص أمام نعش الميت جنون مطبق.المخدرات والمباضع." -Kahlil Gibran
"When you part from your friend, you grieve not;For that which you love in him most may be clearer in his absence, as the mountain to the climber is clearer from the plain." -Kahlil Gibran
"أن حياة الأمم يا حبيبتي مثل حياة الأفراد، حياة يؤاخيها الأمل، ويقارنها الخوف، وتحف بها الأماني، ويرمقها القنوط." -Kahlil Gibran
"Everything in life is good; even gold, for it teaches a lesson. Money is like a stringed instrument; he who does not know how to use it properly will hear only discordant music. Money is like love; it kills slowly and painfully the one who withholds it, and it enlivens the other who turns it upon his fellow man.' " -Kahlil Gibran
"Och när ni krossar ett äpple med era tänder, säg då till ert hjärta: >> Dina frön skall leva i min kropp, Och dina morgondagars knoppar skall blomma i mitt hjärta, Och din väldoft skall vara min andedräkt, Och tillsammans ska vi glädjas genom varje årstid.<<" -Kahlil Gibran
"La bellezza non è nel viso.La bellezza è nella luce del cuore." -Kahlil Gibran
"You talk when you cease to be at peace with your thoughts;" -Kahlil Gibran
"Frogs may bellow louder than bulls, but they cannot drag the plough in the field nor turn the wheel of the winepress, and of their skins you cannot make shoes." -Kahlil Gibran
"Words are timeless. You should utter them or write them with a knowledge of their timelessness." -Kahlil Gibran
"We are richer in material wealth than those villagers; but their spirit is a nobler spirit than ours. We" -Kahlil Gibran
"To be overmindful of your debt is to doubt his generosity who has the free-hearted earth for mother, and God for father..." -Kahlil Gibran
"You give but little when you give of your possessions. It is when you give of yourself that you truly give. For what are your possessions but things you keep and guard for fear you may need them tomorrow?" -Kahlil Gibran
"When love beckons to you, follow him, Though his ways are hard and steep. And when his wings enfold you yield to him, Though the sword hidden among his pinions may wound you. And when he speaks to you believe in him. Though his voice may shatter your dreams as the north wind lays waste the garden." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن الجمال هو ما تراه وتود أن تعطي لا أن تأخذ." -Kahlil Gibran
"follow the steps trust them and yourself" -Kahlil Gibran
"حين يغمُرك الحزن تأمل قلبك من جديد فسترى أنك فى الحقيقة تبكى مما كانيوماً مصدر بهجتك" -Kahlil Gibran
"Destiny comes suddenly, bringing concern; she stares at you with horrible eyes and clutches you at the throat with sharp fingers and hurls you to the ground and tramples upon you with ironclad feet; then she laughs and walks away, but later regrets her actions and asks you through good fortune to forgive her. She stretches her silky hand and lifts you high and sings to you the Song of Hope and causes you to lose your cares. She creates in you a new zest for confidence and ambition." -Kahlil Gibran
"الشرقيون يعيشون في مسارح الماضي الغابر و يميلون إلى الأمور السلبية المسليةالمفكة..." -Kahlil Gibran
"Solo una volta rimasi muto. Fu quando un uomo mi chiese "" Chi sei?" -Kahlil Gibran
"Your children are not your children. They are the sons and daughters of Life's longing for itself. They come through you but not from you, And though they are with you yet they belong not to you. You may give them your love but not your thoughts," -Kahlil Gibran
"the appearance of things changes according to the emotions, and thus we see magic and beauty in them, while the magic and beauty are really in ourselves." -Kahlil Gibran
"Beauty shines brighter in the heart of him who longs for it than in the eyes of him who sees it." -Kahlil Gibran
"As the river surrenders itself to the ocean, what is inside me moves inside you." -Kahlil Gibran
"«Pero el recuerdo es una hoja de Otoño que murmura un instante en el viento, y luego no vuelve a escucharse jamás»" -Kahlil Gibran
"Your children are not your children. They are the sons and daughters of Life's longing for itself. They come through you but not from you, And though they are with you yet they belong not to you. You may give them your love but not your thoughts, For they have their own thoughts. You may house their bodies but not their souls, For their souls dwell in the house of to-morrow, which you cannot visit, not even in your dreams. You may strive to be like them, but seek not to make them like you. For life goes not backward nor tarries with yesterday. You are the bows from which your children as living arrows are sent forth. The archer sees the mark upon the path of the infinite, and He bends you with His might that His arrows may go swift and far. Let your bending in the Archer's hand be for gladness; For even as He loves the arrow that flies, so He loves also the bow that is stable." -Kahlil Gibran
"Ve tahtından indirmek istediğiniz bir despotsa söz konusu olan, önce onun içinizde kurulu tahtını ortadan kaldırın. Bir zorba özgür ve gururlu olanlara nasıl hükmedebilir, eğer onların kendi özgürlüklerinde bir zorbalık, kendi gururlarında bir utanç yoksa? Ve üstünüzden atmak istediğiniz bir yükümlülükse söz konusu olan, bu yükümlülük size dayatılmadı, onu siz seçtiniz." -Kahlil Gibran
"I long for eternity because there I shall meet my unwritten poems and my unpainted pictures." -Kahlil Gibran
"Shall there come a day when man's teacher is nature, and humanity is his book and life his school? Will" -Kahlil Gibran
"Die Vernunft ist, wenn sie allein waltet, eine einengende Kraft; und unbewacht ist die Leidenschaft eine Flamme, die bis zur Selbstzerstörung brennt." -Kahlil Gibran
"Today I believe in Life and in all that she brings upon us, and I confirm that all that the days and nights bring is good, and beautiful and useful." -Kahlil Gibran
"And when the shadow fades and is no more, the light that lingers becomes a shadow to another light." -Kahlil Gibran
"هر جوانی در بهار زندگیش سلمی کرامه ای دارد که در هنگام غفلتش به سراغ او می آید و به تنهایی اش معنایی شاعرانه می دهد و وحشت روزهایش را مانوس و سکوت شبهایش را آمیختع با آهنگ می سازد." -Kahlil Gibran
"Solitude has soft, silky hands, but with strong fingers it grasps the heart and makes it ache with sorrow. Solitude is the ally of sorry as well as a companion of spiritual exaltation." -Kahlil Gibran
"The highest virtue here may be the least in another world." -Kahlil Gibran
"Nur wenn ihr vom Fluß der Stille trinkt, werdet ihr wirklich singen.Und wenn ihr den Gipfel des Berges erreicht habt, dann werdet ihr anfangen zu steigen.Und wenn die Erde eure Glieder fordert, dann werdet ihr wahrhaft tanzen." -Kahlil Gibran
"Art is one step from the visibly known toward the unknown. MS-71" -Kahlil Gibran
"سرنوشت را راههايي است كه تغييرشان نمي توان داد و چون با ضعف قصد بيشه كنيم ،به سبب ناتواني مان از خواسته هايمان در ميگذرينه كتاب." -Kahlil Gibran
"You are the bows from which your childrenas living arrows are sent forth.The archer sees the mark upon the path of the infinite, and He bends you with His mightthat His arrows may go swift and far.Let your bending in the archer's hand be for gladness; For even as He loves the arrow that flies, so He loves also the bow that is stable." -Kahlil Gibran
"MIMIC He who repeats what he does not understand is no better than an ass that is loaded with books. WM-ST-63" -Kahlil Gibran
"There is neither religion nor science beyond beauty." -Kahlil Gibran
"These things he said in words. But much in his heart remained unsaid." -Kahlil Gibran
"Said the Eye one day, 'I see beyond these valleys a mountain veiled with blue mist. Is it not beautiful?' The Ear listened, and after listening intently awhile, said, 'But where is any mountain? I" -Kahlil Gibran
"The owl whose night-bound eyes are blind unto the day cannot unveil the mystery of light." -Kahlil Gibran
"فوضع يده على كتفي وقال: إنك منذ اليوم هذا ستحب هذا الخروف أكثر من جميع الخراف في قطيعك, لأنه كان ضالاً فوجد" -Kahlil Gibran
"For their souls dwell in the house of tomorrow, which you cannot visit, not even in your dreams." -Kahlil Gibran
"Nežnost i LJubaznost nisu znaci slabosti, već izraz Snage i Odlučnosti." -Kahlil Gibran
"For what are your possessions but things you keep and guard for fear you may need them tomorrow?" -Kahlil Gibran
"After all this is not a bad prison; but I do not like this wall between my cell and the next priosner's cell; Yet I assure you that I do not wish to reproach the warder nor the builder of the prison." -Kahlil Gibran
"When love beckons to you, follow him,Though his ways are hard and steep.And when his wings enfold you yield to him,Though the sword hidden among his pinions may wound you.And when he speaks to you believe in him,Though his voice may shatter your dreams as the north wind lays waste the garden." -Kahlil Gibran
"For the pillars of the temple stand apart, And the oak tree and the cypress grow not in each other's shadow." -Kahlil Gibran
"When love beckons to you, follow him, Though his ways are hard and steep." -Kahlil Gibran
"For to be overmindful of your debt, is to doubt his generosity who has the free-hearted earth for mother, and God for father." -Kahlil Gibran
"Sagt nicht: ""Ich habe den Pfad der Seele gefunden."" Sagt lieber: ""Ich habe die Seele auf meinem Pfad wandelnd getroffen.""Denn die Seele wandelt auf allen Pfaden." -Kahlil Gibran
"In some countries, the parent's wealth is a source of misery for the children. The" -Kahlil Gibran
"For reason, ruling alone, is a force confining; and passion, unattended, is a flame that burns to its own destruction." -Kahlil Gibran
"The Beauty of Death" -Kahlil Gibran
"يعلم الملائكة أن كثيرا من الواقعين يهيئون خبزهم من عرق جبين الحالمين" -Kahlil Gibran
"For many of my arrows left my bow only to seek my own breast." -Kahlil Gibran
"‏إذا شعرت بالحاجة إلى يدٍ دافئة فأمسك بيدك الأخرى، فلن يُهزم شخصٌ يؤمن بنفسه" -Kahlil Gibran
"Dios, nuestro Señor, creador de estos seres alados, que se haga en nosotros tu voluntad. Porque es tu impulso el que transforma nuestra noche en nuestro día. Y no te pedimos nada, porque Tú conoces nuestras necesidades aun antes de que se originen. Porque Tú eres nuestra única necesidad; y al ofrecerte a nosotros, nos lo diste todo''." -Kahlil Gibran
"You give but little when you give of your possessions. It is when you give of yourself that you truly give." -Kahlil Gibran
"And when one of you falls down he falls for those behind him, a caution against the stumbling stone. Ay, and he falls for those ahead of him, who, though faster and surer of foot, yet removed not the stumbling stone." -Kahlil Gibran
"Hypocrisy is your religion, andFalsehood is your life, andNothingness is your ending; why,Then, are you living? Is notDeath the sole comfort of theMiserables?" -Kahlil Gibran
"Coming generations will learn equality from poverty, and love from woes." -Kahlil Gibran
"Suffer not yet our eyes to hunger for your face." -Kahlil Gibran
"MADNESS Madness is the first step towards unselfishness. Be mad and tell us what is behind the veil of 'sanity.' The purpose of life is to bring us closer to those secrets, and madness is the only means. SP-ST-62" -Kahlil Gibran
"On Self-knowledge:You would know in words that which you have always known in thought.You would touch with your fingers the naked body of your dreams." -Kahlil Gibran
"That sorrow which obsessed me during my youth was not caused by lack of amusement, because I could have had it; neither from lack of friends, because I could have found them. That sorrow was caused by an inward ailment which made me love solitude." -Kahlil Gibran
"Und Schönheit ist kein Bedürfnis, sondern eine Verzückung.Sie ist weder ein dürstender Mund noch eine leere ausgestreckte Hand,Sondern ein entflammtes Herz und eine verzauberte Seele.Sie ist weder das Bild, das ihr sehen möchtet, noch das Lied, das ihr hören möchtet,Sondern ein Bild, das ihr seht, obwohl ihr eure Augen zumacht, und ein Lied, das ihr hört, obwohl ihr eure Ohren verschließt." -Kahlil Gibran
"Eure Vernunft und eure Leidenschaft sind das Ruder und die Segel eurer seefahrenden Seele." -Kahlil Gibran
"Niko ne može da uzdrma kule prošlosti a da umakne kamenju što se obrušava" -Kahlil Gibran
"If this indeed be the hour in which I lift up my lantern, it is not my flame that shall burn therein.Empty and dark shall I raise my lantern,And the guardian of the night shall fill it with oil and he shall light it also." -Kahlil Gibran
"هل تسرَّعنا بالصعود نحو الكواكب فكلّت أجنحتنا وهبطت بنا إلى الهاوية ؟ هل فاجأنا الحب نائمًا فاستيقظ غاضبًا ليعاقبنا ؟ أم هيجت أنفاسنا نسمات الليل فانقلبت ريحًا شديدة لتمزِّقنا وتجرفنا كالغبار إلى أعماق الوادي ؟ لم نخالف وصية ولم نذُق ثمرًا ، فكيف نخرج من هذه الجنة ؟ ! لم نتآمر ولم نتمرّد ، فلماذا نهبط إلى الجحيم ؟ ! لا لا وألف لا ولا ." -Kahlil Gibran
"See first that you yourself deserve to be a giver, and an instrument of giving. For in truth it is life that gives unto life-while you, who deem yourself a giver, are but a witness." -Kahlil Gibran
"The teacher who walks in the shadow of the temple, among his followers, gives not of his wisdom but rather of his faith and his lovingness. If" -Kahlil Gibran
"Notre esprit est éponge, notre coeur est rivière. N'est t'il pas étrange que la plupart d'entre nous choisissent d'absorber plutôt que de couler ?" -Kahlil Gibran
"Per arrivare all'alba non c'è altra via che la nottte." -Kahlil Gibran
"climbed" -Kahlil Gibran
"Die Liebe gibt nichts als sich selbst und nimmt nichts als von sich selbst.Die Liebe besitzt nicht, noch will sie Besitz sein.Denn der Liebe ist die Liebe genug." -Kahlil Gibran
"Say not, 'I have found the truth,' but rather, 'I have found a truth." -Kahlil Gibran
"أهو الله خلق الإنسانَ أم الإنسان الله؟ ليس من خالق إلا الخيالُ. وأظهر مجالي الخيال الفنُّ. الفن هو الحياة و الحياة هو, وكل شيء يهون في سبيله, لا مجدَ إلا منه, ولا جمال إلا فيه." -Kahlil Gibran
"ما هذا الواجب الذي يُفرقُ المحبّبين ويرمّل النِساء وييتَّمُ الأطفال؟ما هذه الوطنية التي من أجل أسبابٍ صغيرة تدعو إلى الجرب لتخريب البلاد؟ما هذا الواجبُ المحتومُ على القرويَّ المسكينِ، والذي لا يحفَلُ به القويُّ وابنُ الشرفِ الموروث؟إذا كان الواجبُ ينفي السِلمَ من بين الأمَمِ، والوطنيةُ تُزعجُ سكينةَ حياةِ الإنسان، فسلامٌ على الواجِبِ والوطنية....." -Kahlil Gibran
"It is well to give when asked, but it is better to give unasked, through understanding" -Kahlil Gibran
"For affliction has opened my eyes, and tears given me sight. Grief has taught me the language of hearts." -Kahlil Gibran
"If winter should say, ""Spring is in my heart,"" who would believe winter?" -Kahlil Gibran
"Through their wickedness we were divided amongst ourselves; and the better to keep their thrones and be at ease, they armed the Druze to fight the Arab, and stirred up the Shiite to attack the Sunnite, and encouraged the Kurdish to butcher the Bedouin, and cheered the Mohammedan to dispute with the Christian. Until when shall a brother continue killing his own brother upon his mother's bosom? Until when shall the Cross be kept apart from the Crescent before the eyes of God? Oh Liberty, hear us, and speak in behalf of but one individual, for a great fire is started with a small spark. Oh Liberty, awaken but one heart with the rustling of thy wings, for from one cloud alone comes the lightning which illuminates the pits of the valleys and the tops of the mountains. Disperse with thy power these black clouds and descend like thunder and destroy the thrones that were built upon the bones and skulls of our ancestors." -Kahlil Gibran
"Yestereve, on the marble steps of the Temple, I saw a woman sitting between two men. One side of her face was pale, the other was blushing." -Kahlil Gibran
"And even as each one of you stands alone in God's knowledge, so must each one of you be alone in his knowledge of God and in his understanding of the earth." -Kahlil Gibran
"We wanderers, ever seeking the lonelier way, begin no day where we have ended another day, and no sunrise finds us where sunset left us." -Kahlil Gibran
"Miserable is the man who loves a woman and takes her for a wife, pouring at her feet the sweat of his skin and the blood of his body and the life of his heart, and placing in her hands the fruit of his toil and the revenue of his diligence; for when he slowly wakes up, he finds that the heart, which he endeavoured to buy, is given freely and in sincerity to another man for the enjoyment of its hidden secrets and deepest love." -Kahlil Gibran
"Shall there come a day when wise men are able to unite the dreams of youth and the delights of learning as reproach brings together hearts in conflict? Shall there come a day when man's teacher is nature, and humanity is his book" -Kahlil Gibran
"And think not you can direct the course of love, for love, if it finds you worthy, directs your course. Love has no other desire but to fulfil itself." -Kahlil Gibran
"The archer sees the mark upon the path of the infinite, and He bends you with His might that His arrows may go swift and far." -Kahlil Gibran
"أنتم أيها الناس تذكرون فجر الشبيبة فرحين باسترجاع رسومه، متأسفين على انقضائه، أما أنا فأذكره مثلما يذكر الحر المُعْتَق جدرانَ سجنه وثقل قيوده." -Kahlil Gibran
"Then a woman said, Speak to us of Joy and Sorrow.And he answered:Your joy is your sorrow unmasked.And the selfsame well from which your laughter rises was oftentimes filled with your tears.And how else can it be?The deeper that sorrow carves into your being, the more joy you can contain.Is not the cup that holds your wine the very cup that was burned in the potter's oven?And is not the lute that soothes your spirit, the very wood that was hollowed with knives?When you are joyous, look deep into your heart and you shall find it is only that which has given you sorrow that is giving you joy.When you are sorrowful look again in your heart, and you shall see that in truth you are weeping for that which has been your delight.Some of you say, 'Joy is greater than sorrow,' and others say, 'Nay, sorrow is the greater.'But I say unto you, they are inseparable.Together they come, and when one sits alone with you at your board, remember that the other is asleep upon your bed.Verily you are suspended like scales between your sorrow and your joy.Only when you are empty are you at standstill and balanced.When the reassure-keeper lifts you to weigh his gold and his silver, needs must your joy or your sorrow rise or fall." -Kahlil Gibran
"Much in you is still man, and much in you is not yet man, But a shapeless pigmy" -Kahlil Gibran
"Once there lived a man who had a valley-full of needles. And one day the mother of Jesus came to him and said: 'Friend, my son's garment is torn and I must needs mend it before he goeth to the temple. Wouldst thou not give me a needle?' And he gave her not a needle, but he gave her a learned discourse on Giving and Taking to carry to her son before he should go to the temple." -Kahlil Gibran
"إنما الألم انشقاق القشرة التي تغلف إدراككم" -Kahlil Gibran
"Beauty is not in the face,beauty is a light in the heart." -Kahlil Gibran
"And you would accept the seasons of your heart, even as you have always accepted the seasons that pass over your fields. And you would watch with serenity through the winters of your grief." -Kahlil Gibran
"Some of you say, 'Joy is greater than sorrow,' and others say, 'Nay, sorrow is the greater.' But I say unto you, they are inseparable. Together they come, and when one sits alone with you at your board, remember that the other is asleep upon your bed." -Kahlil Gibran
"The Almitra spoke again an said , And what of Marriage, Master?and he answered saying:You were born together, and together you shall be forevermore. You shall be together when the white wings of death scatter you days." -Kahlil Gibran
"Ihr betet in eurer Not und Pein; würdet ihr doch auch in der Fülle eurer Freude und in den Tagen des Überflusses beten." -Kahlil Gibran
"that a woman's happiness does not come through man's glory and honour, nor through his generosity and affection, but through love that unites both of their hearts and affections, making them one member of life's body and one word upon the lips of God." -Kahlil Gibran
"You are the way and the wayfarers. And when one of you falls down he falls for those behind him, a caution against the stumbling stone. Aye, and he falls for those ahead of him, who, though faster and surer of foot, yet removed not the stumbling stone." -Kahlil Gibran
"Dieser Tag ist zu Ende.Er schließt sich über uns, wie sich die Wasserlilie bis zum nächsten Morgen schließt." -Kahlil Gibran
"Sicher gibt es kein größeres Geschenk für einen Menschen als das, was all seine Ziele zu brennenden Lippen und alles Leben zu einem Brunnen macht." -Kahlil Gibran
"Si revelas nuestros secretos al viento, no culpes al viento que se lo cuente a los árboles" -Kahlil Gibran
"للشبيبة أجنحة ذات ريش من الشعر وأعصاب من الأوهام ترتفع بالفتيان إلى ما وراء الغيوم فيرون الكون مغمورًا بأشعة متلونة بألوان قوس القزح ويسمعون الحياة مرتلة أغاني المجد والعظمة، ولكن تلك الأجنحة الشعرية لا تلبث أن تمزقها عواصف الاختبار فيهبطون إلى عالم الحقيقة - وعالم الحقيقة مرآة غريبة يرى فيها المرء نفسه مصغرة مشوهة." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your hearts know in silence the secrets of the days and the nights. But your ears thirst for the sound of your heart's knowledge. You would know in words that which you have always known in thought." -Kahlil Gibran
"بيست و پنج سال است كه بسياري كسان را دوست داشته ام ،آنچه در كودكي دوست ميداشتم ،اكنون هم دوست ميدارم ،و آنچه اكنون دوست ميدارم،تا پايان زندگي دوست خواهم داشت؛زيرا عشق ،تمام ثروتي است كه دارم و هيچكس نميتواند آن را از من بگيرد.آزادي را بيش از هر چيز دوست داشته ام ،كه آن را چون دختري يافتم از نياز و انزوا تلف شده""نه كتاب ." -Kahlil Gibran
"Das freieste Lied dringt nicht durch Gitter und Draht." -Kahlil Gibran
"ولكن هؤلاء الرجال يكونون غالبًا تعساءَ مظلومين؛ لأنهم يجهلون سبل الاحتيال التي تنقذهم من مكر الناس وخبثهم" -Kahlil Gibran
"... who are you that men should rend their bosom and unveil their pride, that you may see their worth naked and their pride unabashed?" -Kahlil Gibran
"SAY not, ""I have found the truth,"" but rather, ""I have found a truth."" Say not, ""I have found the path of the soul."" Say rather, ""I have met the soul walking upon my path."" For the soul walks upon all paths. The soul walks not upon a line, neither does it grow like a reed. The soul unfolds itself, like a lotus of countless petals." -Kahlil Gibran
"وقال له فتًى: حدّثنا عن الصداقة. فأَجابه قائلًا: إنّ صديقك هو حاجتك وقد انقضت. هو الحقل الذي تزرعه بالمحبّة وتحصده بالشكران. هو مائدتك والموقد الذي تصطلي بناره. لأَنك تحمل إليه جوعك، وتسعى إليه لتحظى بالسلام. عندما يفصح صديقك عمّا في فكره، فأَنت لا تخشى أَن تقول له «كلّا»، ولا أَنت تمسك عنه كلمة «نعم». وعندما يكون صامتًا، فقلبك لا ينفكّ يصغي إلى قلبه. لأنّه حينما كانت الصداقة، فجميع الأفكار والرغبات والآمال تولد وتُقتسَم بفرح يأتي الصديقين دونما سابق إعلان. وإذا افترقتَ عن صديقك فلا تحزن، لأَنّ ما أَحببته فيه فوق كلّ شيءٍ آخر ينجلي لك أَكثر فأَكثر في بعده عنك. مثلما ينجلي الجبل من السهل لمن شاء أَن يتسلّقه. ليكن خيرُ ما عندك لصديقك. وإذا كان لا بدّ له من أَن يعرفك وأَنت في حالة الجزر، فليعرفك كذلك وأَنت في حالة المدّ. وهل الصديق للتسلية فتسعى إليه في ساعة الضجر لقتل الوقت؟ بل اذهب إليه دائمًا لتحيا وإيّاه ساعاتٍ مليئة بالحياة. لأنّه ما كان صديقًا ليملأ فراغك، بل ليقضي حاجتك. وإذا اجتمعت بصديقك فلتكن حلاوة الصداقة مبعثًا للضحك واقتسام المسرّات. لأَنّ القلب ينتعش ويجد صباحه في ندى الزهيد والصغير من الأَشياء." -Kahlil Gibran
"...who can depart from his pain and his aloneness without regret?" -Kahlil Gibran
"In the depths of your hopes and desires lie your silent knowledge of the beyond." -Kahlil Gibran
"Every man is the descendant of every king and every slave that ever lived." -Kahlil Gibran
"Entonces, Almitra habló otra vez: ¿Qué nos dirás sobre el matrimonio, maestro? Y él respondió, diciendo: Nacieron juntos y juntos serán para siempre. Estarán juntos hasta cuando las alas blancas de la muerte esparzan sus días. Sí, estarán juntos aun en la memoria silenciosa de Dios. Pero dejen que haya espacios en su cercanía, y dejen que los vientos del cielo dancen entre ustedes. Ámense el uno al otro, pero no hagan del amor una atadura: que sea, más bien, un mar movible entre las costas de sus almas. Llenen uno al otro sus copas, pero no beban de una sola. Dense el uno al otro de su pan, pero no coman del mismo trozo. Canten y bailen juntos, y estén siempre alegres; pero que cada uno de ustedes sea independiente. Las cuerdas de un laúd están solas, aunque tiemblen con la misma música." -Kahlil Gibran
"«قد جمعنا الحب فمن يفرقنا، وأخذنا الموت فمن يرجعنا؟»." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن الفقر يطهر شرف النفس والغني بيبن لؤمها، والحزن يلطف العواطف والسرور يدملها." -Kahlil Gibran
"A seeker of silences am I, and what treasure have I found in silences that I may dispense with confidence? If this is my day of harvest, in what fields have I sowed the seed, and in what unremembered seasons? If this indeed be the hour in which I lift up my lantern, it is not my flame that shall burn therein. Empty and dark shall I raise my lantern, And the guardian of the night shall fill it with oil and he shall light it also. These things he said in words. But much in his heart remained unsaid. For he himself could not speak his deeper secret." -Kahlil Gibran
"But if in you thought you must measure time into seasons, let each season encircle all the other seasons, And let today embrace the past with remembrance and the future with longing." -Kahlil Gibran
"And in the sweetness of friendship let there be laughter, and sharing of pleasures. For in the dew of little things the heart finds its morning and is refreshed." -Kahlil Gibran
"Cinta adalah sebuah anugerah, bukan sebuah penaklukan." -Kahlil Gibran
"فهل فهمتْ روحي روحَ سلمى في عشية النهار فجعلني التفاهم أراها أجمل امرأة أمام الشمس؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"فحياة الأزهار شوق ووصال، دمعة وابتسامة." -Kahlil Gibran
"It is the honor of the murdered that he is not the murderer." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن هذا العالم السائر بك هو قلبك ، فقلبك هو كل ما تظنه عالما" -Kahlil Gibran
"ولكن لِمَ أنا ها هنا يا رب! لِمَ أنا ها هنا، وأنا ثمرة عجراء ٧ لم تنل بعد شهوتها من النماء، وعاصفة صماء هوجاء لا شرقًا تبتغي ولا غربًا، وذرة هائمة تائهة من كوكب محترق ثائر؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"I am Lebanese and proud to be so. I am not Turkish, and I am proud not to be.I belong to a nation whose splendors I praise,but there is no state to which I might belong or where I might find refuge.I am a Christian and proud to be so.But I love the Arab prophet and I appeal to the greatness of his name;I cherish the glory of Islam and fear lest it decay.I am a Levantine, and although in exile I remain Levantine by temperament,Syrian by inclination and Lebanese by feeling.I am oriental, and the Orient has an ancient civilization of magical beauty and of fragrant and exquisite taste.Although I admire the present state of Western civilization and the high degree of development and progress it has attained, the East will remain the country of my dreams and the setting for my desires and longings.Some of you treat me as a renegade; for I hate the Ottoman state and hope it will disappear.To those amongst you Gibran answers: `I hate the Ottoman state, for I love Islam, and I hope that Islam will once again find its splendor.'What is it in the Ottoman state that so attracts you, since it has destroyed the edifices of your glory?...Did Islamic civilization not die with the start of the Ottoman conquests?Has the green flag not been hidden in the fog since the red flag appeared over a mass of skulls?As a Christian, as one who has harbored Jesus in one half of his heart and Mohammed in the other, I promise you that if Islam does not succeed in defeating the Ottoman state the nations of Europe will dominate Islam.If no one among you rises up against the enemy within, before the end of this generation the Levant will be in the hands of those whose skins are white and whose eyes are blue." -Kahlil Gibran
"أَوَ ليست جميع العناقيد العالية حامضة في شرع بنات آوى؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"And from that day to this, the wise men of Ishana say one to another secretly, ""Is it not known, and has it not been said from of old, that Ishana is ruled by an enemy?" -Kahlil Gibran
"It is when your spirit goes wandering upon the wind, That you, alone and unguarded, commit a wrong unto others and therefore unto yourself. And for that wrong committed must you knock and wait a while unheeded at the gate of the blessed." -Kahlil Gibran
"Of the good in you I can speak, but not of the evil. For what is evil but good tortured by its own hunger and thirst?" -Kahlil Gibran
"Menn som ikke tilgir kvinnerderes små feil, vil aldri kunneglede seg over deres dyder." -Kahlil Gibran
"I vostri figli non sono vostri.Sono i figli della brama che la Vita ha di sé stessa.Essi vengono attraverso di voi ma non da voi.E sebbene siano con voi non vi appartengono.Potete donare loro il vostro amore ma non i vostri pensieri. Poichè hanno pensieri propri.Potete dare rifugio ai loro corpi ma non alle loro anime. Giacchè le loro anime albergano nella casa del domani, che voi non potete visitare neppure in sogno.Potete tentare d'essere come loro, ma non di renderli come voi siete. Giacchè la vita non indietreggia ne s'attarda sul passato.Voi siete gli archi dal quali i figli vostri, viventi frecce, sono scoccati innanzi. L'Arciere vede il bersaglio sul sentiero dell'infinito, e vi tende con la sua potenza affinchè le sue frecce possano andare veloci e lontano.Sia Gioioso il vostro tendervi nella mano dell'Arciere; poichè se ama il dardo sfrecciante, così ama l'arco che saldo rimane." -Kahlil Gibran
"COURSER My soul, living is like a courser of the night; the swifter its flight, the nearer the dawn. WM-ST-69" -Kahlil Gibran
"who can depart from his pain and his aloneness without regret?Too many fragments of the spirit have I scattered in these streets, and too many are the children of my longing that walk naked among these hills, and I cannot withdraw from them without a burden and an ache.It is not a garment I cast off this day, but a skin that I tear with my own hands.Nor is it a thought I leave behind me, but a heart made sweet with hunger and with thirst." -Kahlil Gibran
"Only our spirits can understand beauty, or live and grow with it. It puzzles our minds; we are unable to describe it in words; it is a sensation that our eyes cannot see, derived from both the one who observes and the one who is looked upon. Real beauty is a ray which emanates from the holy of holies of the spirit, and illuminates the body, as life comes from the depths of the earth and gives colour and scent to a flower." -Kahlil Gibran
"Life without love is like a tree without blossom or fruit." -Kahlil Gibran
"Work is love made visible. And if you cannot work with love but only with distaste, it is better that you should leave your work and sit at the gate of the temple and take alms of those who work with joy. For if you bake bread with indifference, you bake a bitter bread that feeds but half man's hunger. And if you grudge the crushing of the grapes, your grudge distills a poison in the wine." -Kahlil Gibran
"فإن أوقفنا الخوف في منتصف الطريق أسمعتنا أشباح الليل صراخ الاستهزاء والسخرية، وإن بلغنا قمة الجبل بشجاعة تترنم معنا أرواح الفضاء بأنشودة النصر والاستظهار …" -Kahlil Gibran
"All men love you for themselves. I love you for yourself" -Kahlil Gibran
"Fortune craves not Contentment, for it is an earthly hope, and its desires are embraced by union with objects, while Contentment is naught but heartfelt. " -Kahlil Gibran
"You work that you may keep pace with the earth and the soul of the earth. For to be idle is to become a stranger unto the seasons, and to step out of life's procession that marches in majesty and proud submission towards the infinite." -Kahlil Gibran
"thought is a bird of space, that in a cage of words may indeed unfold its wings but cannot fly." -Kahlil Gibran
"I love you, my brother, whoever you are - whether you worship in a church, kneel in your temple, or pray in your mosque. You and I are children of one faith, for the diverse paths of religion are fingers of the loving hand of the one supreme being, a hand extended to all, offering completeness of spirit to all, eager to receive all.'― Kahlil Gibran" -Kahlil Gibran
"Surely the fruit cannot say to the root, 'Be like me, ripe and full and ever giving of your abundance." -Kahlil Gibran
"Manusia unggul bukan karena kemenangannya, melainkan karena perjuangannya. Karena perjuangan tanpa kemenangan lebih berarti daripada kemenangan tanpa perjuangan." -Kahlil Gibran
"Oftentimes in denying yourself pleasure you do but store the desire in the recesses of your being." -Kahlil Gibran
"The astronomer may speak to you of his understanding of space, but he cannot give you his understanding. The musician may sing to you of the rhythm which is in all space, but he cannot give you the ear which arrests the rhythm, nor the voice that echoes it. And he who is versed in the science of numbers can tell of the regions of weight and measure, but he cannot conduct you thither. For the vision of one man lends not its wings to another man." -Kahlil Gibran
"Αν αγαπάς κάποιον άσ' τον να φύγει!Αν γυρίσει πίσω, είναι δικός σου!Αν δεν γυρίσει, δεν ήταν ποτέ!" -Kahlil Gibran
"Arti penting manusiabukan terletak pada apa yang dia peroleh,melainkan apa yang sangat ia rindukanuntuk diraih." -Kahlil Gibran
"The silence of the envious is too noisy." -Kahlil Gibran
"Often times in denying yourself pleasure, you do but store the desire in the recesses of your being." -Kahlil Gibran
"وهنالك الذين يعطون ولا يعرفون معنى للألم في عطائهم، ولا يتطلبون فرحًا، ولا يرغبون في إذاعة فضائلهم، هؤلاء يعطون مما عندهم كما يعطي الريحان عبير العطر في ذلك الوادي! بمثل أيدي هؤلاء يتكلم الله، ومن خلال عيونهم يبتسم على الأرض!" -Kahlil Gibran
"When God threw me, a pebble, into this wondrous lake,I disturbed its surface with countless circles.But when I reached the depths,I became very still." -Kahlil Gibran
"Jer što je zlo nego kada ga mući vlastita glad i žeđ?" -Kahlil Gibran
"let there be spaces in your togetherness, And let the winds of the heavens dance between you." -Kahlil Gibran
"We wanderers, ever seeking the lonelier way, begin no day where we have ended another day;" -Kahlil Gibran
"La apariencia de las cosas variarán según las emociones, y así vemos magia y belleza en ellas, pero en realidad, la magia y la belleza está en nosotros" -Kahlil Gibran
"»Y no olvidéis que la tierra goza al sentir vuestros pies desnudos y los vientos anhelan jugar con vuestros cabellos." -Kahlil Gibran
"أنا وأنتم أيها الناس مأخوذون بما بان من حالنا، متعامون عما خفِي من حقيقتنا." -Kahlil Gibran
"Death most resembles a prophet who is without honor in his own land or a poet who is a stranger among his people." -Kahlil Gibran
"You make such a noise falling! You scatter all my winter dreams" -Kahlil Gibran
"And let him who would lash the offender look unto the spirit of the offended." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن حياة الإنسان يا سلمى لا تبتدئ في الرحم، كما أنها لا تنتهي أمام القبر،" -Kahlil Gibran
"Knowledge is a light, enrichingThe warmth of life, and all mayPartake who seek it out; but you, My Countrymen, seek out darknessAnd flee the light, awaiting theComing of water from the rock, And your nation's misery is yourCrime. ... I do not forgive youYour sins, for you know what you are doing." -Kahlil Gibran
"When you kill a beast say to him in your heart: 'By the same power that slays you, I too am slain; and I too shall be consumed." -Kahlil Gibran
"Trees are poems the earth writes upon the sky. We fell them down and turn them into paper that we may record our emptiness." -Kahlil Gibran
"if it is a fear you would dispel, the seat of that fear is in your heart and not in the hand of the feared." -Kahlil Gibran
"You may strive to be like your children but seek not to make them like you. For life goes not backward nor tarries with yesterday. You are the bows from which your children as living arrows are sent forth. The Archer sees the mark upon the path of the infinite, and He bends you with His might that His arrows may go swift and far.Even as He loves the arrow that flies, so He loves also the bow that is stable." -Kahlil Gibran
"It is not a garment I cast off this day, but a skin that I tear with my own hands. Nor is it a thought I leave behind me, but a heart made sweet with hunger and with thirst.Yet I cannot tarry longer.The sea that calls all things unto her calls me, and I must embark.For to stay, though the hours burn in the night, is to freeze and crystallize and be bound in a mould." -Kahlil Gibran
"لأن الحياة لا ترجع إلى الوراء، ولا تلذ لها الإقامة في منزل الأمس." -Kahlil Gibran
"And the will to die, Stronger than all things strong, Is stayed by a will to live, Feebler than all things feeble." -Kahlil Gibran
"if you cannot work with love but only with distaste, it is better that you should leave your work and sit at the gate of the temple and take alms of those who work with joy." -Kahlil Gibran
"And when you crush an apple with your teeth, say to it in your heart: 'Your seeds shall live in my body, And the buds of your to-morrow shall blossom in my heart, And your fragrance shall be my breath, And together we shall rejoice through all the seasons." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن دموع الشباب الغزيرة هي مما يفيض من جوانب القلوب المترعة، أما دموع الشيوخ، فهي من فضلات العمر تنسكب من الأحداق، هي بقية الحياة في الأجساد الواهنة. الدموع في أجفان الشبيبة كقطرات الندى على أوراق الوردة، أما الدموع على وجنة الشيخوخة فأشبه بأوراق الخريف المصفرة التي تنثرها الرياح وتذريها عندما يقترب شتاء الحياة." -Kahlil Gibran
"Some of your youth seek pleasure as if it were all, and they are judged and rebuked. {80}I would not judge nor rebuke them. I would have them seek." -Kahlil Gibran
"In the depth of your hopes and desires lies your silent knowledge of the beyond;" -Kahlil Gibran
"أيّ فتى لا يذكر الصبيَّة الأولى التي أبدلت غفلة شبيبته بيقظة هائلة بلطفها، جارحة بعذوبتها، فتَّاكة بحلاوتها؟ من منَّا لا يذوب حنينًا إلى تلك الساعة الغريبة التي إذا انتبه فيها فجأة رأى كُلِّيَّتَه قد انقلبت وتحولت، وأعماقه قد اتّسعت وانبسطت وتبطَّنت بانفعالات لذيذة بكل ما فيها من مرارة الكِتْمان، مستحبة بكل ما يكتنفها من الدموع والشوق والسُّهاد؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"For often have I put my finger in my own wound that I might have the greater belief in you and the greater knowledge of you." -Kahlil Gibran
"...I feel that there is a great power in the depth of my heart that wishes to come out, and it is going to come out some day with the help of God." -Kahlil Gibran
"Have you peace, the quiet urge that reveals your power? Have you remembrances, the glimmering arches that span the summits of the mind?" -Kahlil Gibran
"Every seed is a longing." -Kahlil Gibran
"عد إلينا يا ميشا عندما تشاءُ تجدنْا مثلما تشاءُ - والله يحفظك ويحرسك لأخيك" -Kahlil Gibran
"Be mad and tell us what is behind the veil of ""sanity"". The purpose of life is to bring us closer to those secrets, and madness is the only means." -Kahlil Gibran
"ما بیشتر وام از فرداهای خود می گیریم تا دین خود را به دیروز ادا کنیم" -Kahlil Gibran
"the condemned is the burden bearer for the guiltless and unblamed." -Kahlil Gibran
"فدنوت منها صامتًا وجلست بقربها جلوس مجوسي متهيب أمام النار المقدسة، ولما حاولت الكلام وجدت لساني منعقدًا وشفتيَّ جامدتين، فاستأنست بالسكوت؛ لأن الشعور العميق غير المتناهي يفقد شيئًا من خاصته المعنوية عندما يتجسَّم بالألفاظ المحدودة، ولكنني شعرت بأن سلمى كانت تسمع في السكينة مناجاة قلبي المتواصلة، وتشاهد في عيني أشباح نفسي المرتعشة." -Kahlil Gibran
"Šteta što jeleni ne mogu kornjače naučiti brzini." -Kahlil Gibran
"Would that I could be the peacemaker in your soul, that I might turn the discord and rivalry of your Reason and Passion into oneness and melody. You yourselves be also the peacemakers, nay, the lovers of all your elements." -Kahlil Gibran
"El Matrimonio Entonces, Almitra habló otra vez: ¿Qué nos diréis sobre el Matrimonio, Maestro? Y él respondió, diciendo: Nacisteis juntos y juntos para siempre. Estaréis juntos cuando las alas blancas de la muerte esparzan vuestros días. Sí; estaréis juntos aun en la memoria silenciosa de Dios. Pero dejad que haya espacios en vuestra cercanía. Y dejad que los vientos del cielo dancen entre vosotros. Amaos el uno al otro, pero no hagáis del arnor una atadura. Que sea, más bien, un mar movible entre las costas de vuestras almas. Llenaos uno al otro vuestras copas, pero no bebáis de una sola copa. Daos el uno al otro de vuestro pan, pero no comáis del mismo trozo. Cantad y bailad juntos y estad alegres, pero que cada uno de vosotros sea independiente. Las cuerdas de un laúd están solas, aunque tiemblen con la misma música. Dad vuestro corazón, pero no para que vuestro compañero lo tenga. Porque sólo la mano de la Vida puede contener los corazones. Y estad juntos, pero no demasiado juntos. Porque los pilares del templo están aparte. Y, ni el roble crece bajo la sombra del ciprés ni el ciprés bajo la del roble." -Kahlil Gibran
"And you who would understand justice, how shall you unless you look upon all deeds in the fullness of light?" -Kahlil Gibran
"مهری که در عریانی خود خاکسار است بزرگ تر از مهری است که پیروزی را در ظاهرسازی می جوید." -Kahlil Gibran
"Did my spirit and Selma's reach out to each other that day when we met, and did that yearning make me see her as the most beautiful woman under the sun? Or was I intoxicated with the wine of youth which made me fancy that which never existed?Did my youth blind my natural eyes and make me imagine the brightness of her eyes, the sweetness of her mouth, and the grace of her figure? Or was it that her brightness, sweetness, and grace opened my eyes and showed me the happiness and sorrow of love?" -Kahlil Gibran
"يكفينا يا صديقتي ما في هذه الأيام والليالي من الأوجاع والتشويش والمتاعب والمصاعب" -Kahlil Gibran
"Dans nombre de vos paroles, la pensée est à moitié assassinée." -Kahlil Gibran
"أيتها المحجوبة عني بستائر العظمة وجدران الجلال، أيتها الحورية التي لا أطمع بلقائها إلا في الأبدية حيث المساواة" -Kahlil Gibran
"Gij ziet slechts Uw schaduw, wanneer ge de zon Uw rug toekeert." -Kahlil Gibran
"جمال سلمى لم يكن في كمال جسدها، بل في نبالة روحها الشبيهة بشعلة بيضاء متقدة سابحة بين الأرض واللانهاية." -Kahlil Gibran
"فكنت أجيبه بتلك اللهجة المفعمة بنغمة الأحلام والأماني التي يترنّم بها الفتيان قبل أن تقذفهم أمواج الخيال إلى شاطئ العمل حيث الجهاد والنزاع" -Kahlil Gibran
"وفي أيام الشبيبة سيكون لي الحب مهذبًا، وفي الكهولة عضدًا، وفي الشيخوخة مؤنسًا." -Kahlil Gibran
"A tristeza é um muro entre dois jardins" -Kahlil Gibran
"And could you keep your heart in wonder at the daily miracles of your life, your pain would not seem less wondrous than your joy; And you would accept the seasons of your heart, even as you have always accepted the seasons that pass over your fields. And you would watch with serenity through the winters of your grief." -Kahlil Gibran
"تعالي ننتصب كالأبراج أمام الزوبعة. هلمي نقف كالجنود أمام الأعداء متلقِّين شفار السيوف بصدورنا لا بظهورنا، فإن صُرعنا نموت كالشهداء وإن تغلَّبْنا نعشْ كالأبطال" -Kahlil Gibran
"Algunos dan un poco de lo mucho que tienen, y lo dan buscando el agradecimiento: ese deseo oculto convierte sus dádivas en algo sin valor." -Kahlil Gibran
"Quién puede separarse sin pena de su dolor y de su soledad?" -Kahlil Gibran
"ما أوْلاكم أن تَرثْوا لأمّة زاخرة النفوس بالمعتقدات خاويتها من الإيمان.وما أوْلاكم أن تَرثْوا لأمّة تلبسُ أرديةً لا تَنْسِجُها، وتأكل خبزًا لا تحصدُه، وتشرب نبيذًا لا يسيل من معاصرها.وما أوْلاكم أن تَرثْوا لأمّة تهتفُ للباغي هُتافَها للبطل، ويُبْهرها الغازي فتعدُّه الوهّاب الجواد.وما أوْلاكم أن تَرثْوا لأمّة تستنكف اصطخاب العاطفة في أحلامها، وتستسلم لها في يقظتها.وما أوْلاكم أن تَرثْوا لأمّة لا ترفع صوتَها إلاّ حين تشيّع مَيْتا، ولا تتفاخر إلا بأطلالها ولا تثورُ إلا عندما ترى رقابَها بين السّيف والنَّطع.وما أوْلاكم أن تَرثْوا لأمّة وليُّها ثعلب ماكر، وحكيمُها مُشعوذ، وفنُّها فن بُنىّ على الترقيع والمحاكاة.وما أوْلاكم أن تَرثْوا لأمّة تستقبلُ حاكمها الجديد بالطّبل والزَّمْر وتُشيِّعه بالنكير والصفير، لتعودَ فتستقبلُ الخَلَف بما استقبلت به السَّلف.وما أوْلاكم أن تَرثْوا لأمّة قد عقدت السّنون ألسنةَ حكمائها، وخلّفت ذوي البأس من رجالها في مِهادهم.ثمّ ما أوْلاكم أن تَرثْوا لأمّة تفرّقت أحزابًا، وظن كلُّ حزب أنه أُمة." -Kahlil Gibran
"He gave her the cup of happiness and said, ‘Drink not from this cup unless you forget the past and the future, for happiness is naught but the moment.' And He also gave her a cup of sorrow and said, ‘Drink from this cup and you will understand the meaning of the fleeting instants of the joy of life, for sorrow ever abounds." -Kahlil Gibran
"When you speak to another, let the spirit in you move your lips and direct your tongue. Let the voice within your voice speak to the ear of his ear; for his soul will keep the truth of your heart as the taste of the wine is remembered, when is colour is forgotten and the vessel is no more." -Kahlil Gibran
"When love beckons to you, follow him, Though his ways are hard and steep. And When his wings enfold you yield to him, Though the sword hidden among his pinions may wound you. And When he speaks to you believe in him, Though his voice may shatter your dreams as the north wind lays waste the garden. For even as love crowns you so shall he crucify you. Even as he is for your growth so is he for your pruning. Even as he ascends to your height and caresses your tenderest branches that quiver in the sun, So shall he descend to your roots and shake them in their clinging to the earth. Like sheaves of corn he gathers you unto himself. He threshes you to make you naked. He sifts you to free you from your husks. He grinds you to whiteness. He kneads you until you are pliant; And then he assigns you to his sacred fire, that you may become sacred bread for God's sacred feast." -Kahlil Gibran
"When you are joyous, look deep into your heart and you shall find it is only that which has given you sorrow that is giving you joy. When you are sorrowful look again in your heart, and you shall see that in truth you are weeping for that which has been your delight" -Kahlil Gibran
"en reniant le plaisir vous ne faites qu'accumuler le désir dans les replis de votre être." -Kahlil Gibran
"Biz genc ve atesliysek de, ne arkadasimiz ne ziyaretcimiz vardir; her ne kadar kesintisiz bir kucaklasma icinde olsak da huzurlu degiliz. Arzu doyurulmadiginda, tutku amacsiz kaldiginda hangi huzurdan soz edilebilir ki?" -Kahlil Gibran
"ولكن إذا أضاع الرجل راحة قلبه فأين يجدها؟!" -Kahlil Gibran
"El trabajo es el amor hecho visible. Y si no podéis trabajar con amor, sino solamente con disgusto, es mejor que dejéis vuestra tarea y os sentéis a la puerta del templo y recibáis limosna de los que trabajan gozosamente. Porque, si horneáis el pan con indiferencia estáis horneando un pan amargo que no calma más que a medias el hambre del hombre." -Kahlil Gibran
"For in adoration you cannot fly higher than their hopes nor humble yourself lower than their despair." -Kahlil Gibran
"Patnja je gorak napitak kojim liječnik u vama liječi vaše bolesno ja." -Kahlil Gibran
"I will do all you have said and will make my soul an envelope for your soul, and my heart a residence for your beauty and my breast a grave for your sorrows. I shall love you , Selma, as the prairies love the spring, and I shall live in you in the life of a flower under the sun's rays. I shall sing your name as the valley sings the echo of the bells of the village churches; I shall listen to the language of your soul as the shore listens to the story of the waves. I shall remember you as a stranger remembers his beloved country, and as a hungry man remembers a banquet, and as a dethroned king remembers the days of his glory, and as a prisoner remembers the hours of ease and freedom. I shall remember you as a sower remembers the bundles of wheat on his threshing flour, and as a shepherd remembers the green prairies the sweet brooks." -Kahlil Gibran
"ومرت دقائق، وكلانا صامت حائر مفكر يترقب الآخر ليبدأ بالكلام. ولكن هل هو الكلام الذي يحدث التفاهم بين الأرواح المتحابّة؟ هل هي الأصوات والمقاطع الخارجة من الشفاه والألسنة التي تقرب بين القلوب والعقول؟ أفلا يوجد شيء أسمى مما تلده الأفواه وأطهر مما تهتز به أوتار الحناجر؟ أليست هي السكينة التي تحمل شعاع النفس إلى النفس، وتنقل همس القلب إلى القلب؟ أليست هي السكينة التي تفصلنا عن ذواتنا فنسبح في فضاء الروح غير المحدود مقتربين من الملأ الأعلى، شاعرين بأن أجسادنا لا تفوق السجون الضيقة، وهذا العالم لا يمتاز عن المنفى البعيد؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"لأخينا يسوع ثلاث عجائب لم تُكتب بعد في الكتاب: الأولى أنه كان إنساناً مثلي ومثلك. والثانية أنه كان ذا كياسة وظرف. والثالثة معرفته أنه غالب مع أنّه غُلب" -Kahlil Gibran
"Wit is often a mask. If you could tear it you would find either a genius irritated or cleverness juggling." -Kahlil Gibran
"The strangest things are the closest to the real truth. In the will of man there is a power of longing which turns the mist in ourselves into sun." -Kahlil Gibran
"Always you have been told that work is a curse and labour a misfortune. But I say to you that when you work you fulfill a part of earth's furthest dream, assigned to you when that dream was born, And in keeping yourself with labour you are in truth loving life, And to love life through labour is to be intimate with life's inmost secret." -Kahlil Gibran
"Apenas Almitra ficou em silêncio, olhando o barco até que desapareceu na neblina. E quando todas as pessoas se dispersaram, ela ainda permaneceu sozinha junto ao cais, lembrando em seu coração as palavras dele: ""Um pouco mais, um momento de repouso sobre o vento, e outra mulher me dará a luz." -Kahlil Gibran
"On Joy and Sorrow""Then a woman said, Speak to us of Joy and Sorrow.And he answered:Your joy is your sorrow unmasked.And the selfsame well from which your laughter rises was oftentimes filled with your tears.And how else can it be?The deeper that sorrow carves into your being, the more joy you can contain.Is not the cup that holds your wine the very cup that was burned in the potter's oven?And is not the lute that soothes your spirit, the very wood that was hollowed with knives?When you are joyous, look deep into your heart and you shall find it is only that which has given you sorrow that is giving you joy.When you are sorrowful look again in your heart, and you shall see that in truth you are weeping for that which has been your delight.Some of you say, 'Joy is greater than sorrow,' and others say, 'Nay, sorrow is the greater.'But I say unto you, they are inseparable.Together they come, and when one sits alone with you at your board, remember that the other is asleep upon your bed.Verily you are suspended like scales between your sorrow and your joy.Only when you are empty are you at standstill and balanced.When the treasure-keeper lifts you to weigh his gold and his silver, needs must your joy or your sorrow rise or fall.Khalil Gibran,  (Rupa & Co, January 1, 2010) Originally published January 1923." -Kahlil Gibran
"Nitko vas ne može naučiti ništa, osim onoga što već u polusnu leži u osvitu vašega znanja." -Kahlil Gibran
"Başınıza tacı oturtacak olan da, sizi çarmıha gerecek olan da sevgidir. Serpilip gelişmenizi isteyen de o, budanıp kalmanızı isteyen de O'dur." -Kahlil Gibran
"ولكن أليست المرأة الضعيفة هي رمز الأمة المظلومة؟ أليست المرأة المتوجِّعة بين ميول نفسها وقيود جسدها هي كالأُمَّة المتعذّبة بين حكامها وكهانها؟ أوليست العواطف الخفية التي تذهب بالصبيّة الجميلة إلى ظلمة القبر هي كالعواصف الشديدة التي تغمر حياة الشعوب بالتراب؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"Votre ami est votre besoin qui a trouvé une réponse." -Kahlil Gibran
"He who listens to truth is not less than he who utters truth." -Kahlil Gibran
"No man can reveal to you aught but that which already lies half-asleep in the dawning of your knowledge." -Kahlil Gibran
"the moments which united us are greater than centuries, and the light that illuminated our spirits is stronger than the dark; and if the tempest separates us on this rough ocean, the waves will unite us on the calm shore; and if this life kills us, death will unite us." -Kahlil Gibran
"in the dew of little things the heart finds its morning and is refreshed." -Kahlil Gibran
"ليس الجبل المقنّع بالضباب تلّة، وليست السنديانة تحت المطر بالصفصافة الباكية." -Kahlil Gibran
"You give much and know not that you give at all." -Kahlil Gibran
"Cinta tidak pernah salah, yang salah adalah orang yang tidak tahu cara mencintai." -Kahlil Gibran
"attracted by the body and repelled by the spirit," -Kahlil Gibran
"A woman protested saying, ""Of course it was a righteous war. My son fell in it." -Kahlil Gibran
"the woman whom I rescued from between the deathly paws of poverty; I opened my coffers to her and made her envied by all women for the beautiful raiment and precious gems and magnificent carriages drawn by spirited horses; the woman whom my heart has loved and at whose feet I poured affection; the woman, to whom I was a true friend, sincere companion and a faithful husband; The woman who betrayed me and departed me" -Kahlil Gibran
"If the great-grandfather of Jesus had known what was hidden within him, would he not have stood in awe of himself?" -Kahlil Gibran
"There are those who give with joy and that joy is their reward." -Kahlil Gibran
"It sure would be nice if Goodreads properly represented the original indentation for its quotes." -Kahlil Gibran
"...love is transformed in its servants into a consuming fire." -Kahlil Gibran
"Every man loves two women; the one is the creation of his imagination, and the other is not yet born." -Kahlil Gibran
"When you tell your trouble to your neighbour you present him with a part of your heart. If he possesses a great soul, he thanks you; if he possesses a small one, he belittles you." -Kahlil Gibran
"contain. Is not the cup that holds your wine the very cup that was burned in the potter's oven?" -Kahlil Gibran
"أنتم تدْعون تلك السنين التي تجيء بين الطفولة والشباب عهدًا ذهبيًّا يهزأ بمتاعب الدهر وهواجسه، ويطير مرفرفًا فوق رؤوس المشاعل والهموم مثلما تجتاز النحلة فوق المستنقعات الخبيثة سائرة نحو البساتين المزهرة، أما أنا فلا أستطيع أن أدعو سِنِي الصبا سوى عهد آلام خفية خرساء كانت تقطن قلبي وتثور كالعواصف في جوانبه، وتتكاثر نامية بنموِّه، ولم تجد منفذًا تنصرف منه إلى عالم المعرفة حتى دخل إليه الحب وفتح أبوابه وأنار زواياه، فالحب قد أعتق لساني فتكلمتُ، ومزَّق أجفاني فبكيتُ، وفتح حنجرتي فتنهدتُ وشكوتُ." -Kahlil Gibran
"رأيت الجاهل يجالس العاقل فيرفع ماضية على عرش المجد، ويوسد حاضرة بساط السعة، ويمد لمستقبله فراش الفخامة." -Kahlil Gibran
"Vous vous délectez à établir des lois, Mais vous éprouvez un délice plus grand encore à les violer." -Kahlil Gibran
"الناس عبيد الحياة،" -Kahlil Gibran
"La realtà dell'altro non è in ciò che ti rivela, ma in quel che non può rivelarti. Perciò, se vuoi capirlo, non ascoltare le parole che dice, ma quelle che non dice." -Kahlil Gibran
"المكان، فدنوت منها صامتًا وجلست بقربها جلوس مجوسي متهيب أمام النار المقدسة،" -Kahlil Gibran
"فقد كانت أيام كآبتي طويلة ضمن جدرانها , وأطول منها كانت ليالي وحدتي و انفرادي , ومن ذا يستطيع أن ينفصل عن كآبته ووحدته من غير أن يتألم قلبه ؟كثيرة هي أجزاء روحي التي فرقتها في هذه الشوارع و كثير هم ابناء حنيني الذين يمشون عراة بين التلال فكيف أفارقهم من غير أن اثقل كاهلي و أضغط روحي !فليس ما أفارقه بالثوب الذي انزعه عني اليوم ثم ارتديه غدا , بل هو بشرة أمزقها بيديكلا و ليس فكراً أخلفه ورائي بل هو قلب جمّلته مجاعتي و جعله عطشي رقيقاً خفوقاًبيد أني لا أستطيع أن أبطئ في سفري" -Kahlil Gibran
"When you are sorrowful, look again in your heart, and you shall see that in truth you are weeping for that which has been your delight." -Kahlil Gibran
"...stand together yet not too near together: For the pillars of the temple stand apart." -Kahlil Gibran
"نگویید حقیقت را یافتم ،بگویید حقیقتی را یافتم*دیروز یادگار امروز است و فردا تنها رؤیای امروز.*و آنگاه که سیبی را به دندان می‌گزید، در دل بگوییدش: «دانه‌هایت در دل من خواهند شکفت، خواهند بالید، شکوفه خواهند داد و رایحهٔ شکوفه‌ها، در هوای خانهٔ دلم خواهد پیچید. عطرِ تو، عطرِ نفس‌های من خواهد شد و من و تو، دست در دستِ هم، فصل‌ها را، شادمانه خواهیم رقصید.»*همیشه چنین بوده است که عشق ژرفای راستین خود را نمی‌شناسد، مگر آنگاه که لحظهٔ جدایی فرا می‌رسد.*همان‌طور که نیکان و پاکان نمی‌توانند از آن ساحتِ متعالی که در یکایک شماست، فراتر بروند، بَدان و ناپاکان نیز نمی‌توانند از نازل‌ترین سطحی که در یکایک شماست، فروتر افتند." -Kahlil Gibran
"who can depart from his pain and his aloneness without regret?" -Kahlil Gibran
"My soul preached to me and taught me to love that which the people abhor and befriend him who they revile." -Kahlil Gibran
"فالمحبة هي الحرية الوحيدة في هذا العالم؛" -Kahlil Gibran
"Learning these words, my heart melted, and I answered her, ""I will be as you want me to be, my beloved." -Kahlil Gibran
"Yes, Nietzsche is a great giant--and the more you read him the more you will love him. He is perhaps the greatest spirit in modern times, and his work will outlive many of the things we consider great. Please, p-l-e-a-s-e, read `Thus Spake Zarathurtra' as soon as possible for it is--to me--one of the greatest works of all times." -Kahlil Gibran
"Few of us are able to add fact to different fact and make a truth thereof." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن النفس الحزينة المتألمة تجد راحة بانضمامها إلى نفس أخرى تماثلها بالشعور وتشاركها بالإحساس، مثلما يستأنس الغريب بالغريب في أرض بعيدة عن وطنهما، فالقلوب التي تدنيها أوجاع الكآبة بعضها من بعض لا تفرِّقها بهجة الأفراح وبهرجتها. فرابطة الحزن أقوى في النفوس من روابط الغبطة والسرور." -Kahlil Gibran
"Hold the seasons of your heart as the seasons of the field. Watch with serenity through the winters of your grief." -Kahlil Gibran
"But you who are strong and swift, see that you do not limp before the lame, deeming it kindness." -Kahlil Gibran
"نفسي مُثقلَة بأثمارها نفسي مثقلةٌ بأثمارها؛ فهل من جائِع يجني ويأكل ويشبع؟ أليس بين الناس من" -Kahlil Gibran
"Heavy-laden is my soul with her own ripe fruit;Heavy-laden is my soul with her fruit.Who now will come and eat and be fulfilled?My soul is overflowing with her wine.Who now will pour and drink and be cooled of the desert heat?Would that I were a tree flowerless and fruitless,For the pain of abundance is more bitter than barrenness,And the sorrow of the rich from whom no one will takeIs greater than the grief of the beggar to whom none would give.Would that I were a well, dry and parched , and men throwing stones into me;For this were better and easier to be borne than to be a source of living waterWhen men pass by and will not drink.Would that I were a reed trodden under foot,For that were better than to be a lyre of silvery stringsIn a house whose lord has no fingersAnd whose children are deaf." -Kahlil Gibran
"My house says to me, ""Do not leave me, for here dwells your past."" And the road says to me, ""Come and follow me, for I am your future."" And I say to both my house and the road, ""I have no past, nor have I a future. If I stay here, there is a going in my staying; and if I go there is a staying in my going. Only love and death will change all things." -Kahlil Gibran
"Where shall you seek beauty, and how shall you find her unless she herself be your way and your guide? And how shall you speak of her except she be the weaver of your speech? Beauty is life when life unveils her holy face. But you are life and you are the veil. Beauty is eternity gazing at itself in a mirror. But you are eternity and you are the mirror." -Kahlil Gibran
"My friend, you and I shall remain strangers unto life,And unto one another, and each unto himself,Until the day when you shall speak and I shall listenDeeming your voice my own voice;And when I shall stand before youThinking myself standing before a mirror." -Kahlil Gibran
"Yet in my need for your nearness I feign remoteness, and in sear of the ebb-tide of your love I guard the floodgates of my love." -Kahlil Gibran
"Long were the days of pain I have spent within its walls, and long were the nights of aloneness; and who can depart from his pain and his aloneness without regret? Too many fragments of the spirit have I scattered in these streets, and too many are the children of my longing that walk naked among these hills, and I cannot withdraw from them without a burden and an ache. It is not a garment I cast off this day, but a skin that I tear with my own hands. Nor is it a thought I leave behind me, but a heart made sweet with hunger and with thirst." -Kahlil Gibran
"The man who acquires his wealth by inheritance builds his mansion with the weak poor's money. The clergyman erects his temple upon the graves and bones of the devoted worshipers. The prince grasps the fellah's arms while the priest empties his pocket; the ruler looks upon the sons of the fields with frowning face, and the bishop consoles them with his smile, and between the frown of the tiger and the smile of the wolf the flock is perished; the ruler claims himself as king of the law, and the priest as the representative of God, and between these two, the bodies are destroyed and the souls wither into nothing." -Kahlil Gibran
"ما أتعس الرجل الذي يحب صبية من بين الصبايا ويتخذها رفيقة لحياته، ويُهرق على قدميها عرق جبينه ودَمَ قلبه، ويضع بين كَفَّيْهَا ثمار أتعابه وغلة اجتهاده، ثم ينتبه فجأة فيجد قلبها الذي حاول ابتياعه بمجاهدة الأيام وسهر الليالي قد أعطي مجانًا لرجل آخر ليتمتع بمكنوناته ويسعد بسرائر محبته!" -Kahlil Gibran
"Es un mundo perfecto, un mundo de consumada excelencia, un mundo de supremas maravillas, el fruto más maduro del jardín de dios, el más alto pensamiento del Universo. Pero ¿por qué he de estar aquí, oh Dios, yo, una semilla verde de pasiones insatisfechas, una loca tempestad que no se dirige ni al Oriente ni al Occidente, un fragmento errante de un planeta en llamas? ¿Por qué estoy aquí, oh Dios de las almas perdidas, tú que estás perdido entre los dioses?" -Kahlil Gibran
"Say not, ""I have found the truth,"" but rather, ""I have found a truth." -Kahlil Gibran
"...what dreams gather, wakefulness scatters." -Kahlil Gibran
"•	قد يكون للضفادع نقيقٌ أشد من خوار الثيران، لكنها لا تقوى على جرّ المحراث في الحقل، كما أن جلود الضفادع لا تصنع الأحذيه. ~رمل و زبد" -Kahlil Gibran
"شربتُ" -Kahlil Gibran
"yesterday is but today's memory and tomorrow is today's dream." -Kahlil Gibran
"أنا وأنتم أيها الناس مأخوذون بما بان من حالنا، متعامون عما خفِي من حقيقتنا. فإن عَثَر أحدُنا قلنا: هو الساقِطُ، وإن تَمَاهَلَ قُلنا: هو الخَائِر التلِف، وإن تَلَعْثَمَ قلنا: هو الأخرس، وإن تَأَوَّهَ قلنا: تلك حَشَرجَةُ النَّزعِ فهو مائِتٌ." -Kahlil Gibran
"Ve bazıları vardır ki, ne vermenin acısını hissederler, ne sevinç ararlar, ne de bir erdemlilik düşüncesi taşırlar; Onlar, şu vadideki mersin ağacının kokusunu salışı gibi verirler. Böyle kişilerin ellerinde Tanrı dile gelir ve onların gözlerinden Tanrı, dünyaya gülümser." -Kahlil Gibran
"I knew your joy and your pain, and in your sleep your dreams were my dreams." -Kahlil Gibran
"چنین گفت برگ کاغذی به سفیدی برف: «پاک آفریده شده ام من، و تا ابد پاک خواهم ماند. من اولی می دانم که بسوزم و به خاکستر تبدیل شوم تا آنکه روا بدارم که تیرگی مرا لمس کند یا ناپاک به من نزدیک شود.»دوات شنید که برگ چه می گفت، در دل تیره خود خندید؛ اما هرگز به خود جرأت نداد که به او نزدیک شود. مدادهای رنگ به رنگ نیز شنیدند که چه گفت، آن ها هم هرگز به او نزدیک نشدند.برگ سفید برفی تا ابد پاک و پاک دامن ماند- پاک و پاک دامن- ‌تهی." -Kahlil Gibran
"he who defines his conduct by ethics imprisons his song-bird in a cage." -Kahlil Gibran
"How painful is the preaching of the fortunate to the heart of the miserable! And how severe is the strong when he stands as advisor to the weak!- " -Kahlil Gibran
"رحماك يا نفس فقد حمَّلْتِنِي من الحب ما لا أطيقه، أنت والحب قوة متحدة، وأنا والمادة ضَعْفٌ متفرِّق، وهل يطول عراك بين قوي وضعيف؟ رحماك يا نفس فقد أريتني السعادة عن بعد شاسع … أنت والسعادة على جبل عالٍ، وأنا والشقاء في أعماق الوادي، وهل يتم لقاء علوٍّ ووطوءة؟رحماك يا نفس، فقد أَبَنْتِ لي الجمال وأخفيتِه، أنت والجمال في النور وأنا والجهل في ظلمة، وهل يمتزج النور بالظلمة؟أنت يا نفس تفرحين بالآخرة قبل مجيء الآخرة، وهذا الجسد يشقى بالحياة وهو في الحياة.أنت تسيرين نحو الأبدية مسرعة وهذا الجسد يخطو نحو الفناء ببطء، فلا أنت تتمهَّلين ولا هو يسرع، وهذا يا نفس منتهى التعاسة.أنت ترتفعين نحو العلو بجاذب السماء، وهذا الجسد يسقط إلى تحت بجاذبية الأرض، فلا أنت تعزِّينَهُ ولا هو يهنئك، وهذه هي البغضاء.أنت يا نفس غنية بحكمتك وهذا الجسد فقير بسليقته، فلا أنت تتساهلين ولا هو يتبع، وهذا أقصى الشقاء." -Kahlil Gibran
"Love possesses not nor would it be possessed; For love is sufficient unto love." -Kahlil Gibran
"Bir kadın konuşarak, bize Acıdan Söz Et, dedi. O da dedi ki: Acınız idrakinizi saran kabuğun kırılmasıdır.Nasıl meyvenin çekirdeği kırılmak zorundaysa, canevinin güneşin altında durması için, siz de acıyı tanımak zorundasınız.Eğer yüreklerinizi yaşamlarınızın gündelik mucizeleri karşısında hayretle dolu tutabilseydiniz, acınız da en az sevinciniz kadar harikulade görünürdü.Yüreğinizin mevsimlerini kabullenirdiniz, tıpkı tarlalarınızdan geçen mevsimleri her zaman kabullendiğiniz gibi. Ve hüznünüzün kışlarını dinginlikle seyredersiniz.Acılarınızın çoğu kendi seçiminizdir. Acı, içinizdeki hekimin hasta nefsinizi sağaltmakta kullandığı acı iksirdir.Onun için hekime güvenin, ilacını sessizlik ve dinginlikle için; Çünkü eli ağır ve sert de olsa, Görünmeyen'in müşfik eliyle yönlendirilir. Uzattığı çanak dudaklarınızı yaksa da, Çömlekçi'nin Kendi kutsal gözyaşlarıyla ıslattığı kilden yapılmıştır." -Kahlil Gibran
"Fill each other's cup but drink not from one cup. Give one another of your bread but eat not from the same loaf. {20}Sing and dance together and be joyous, but let each one of you be alone, Even as the strings of a lute are alone though they quiver with the same music." -Kahlil Gibran
"بگذار آن که دستان کثیفش را با جامه ی تو پاک می کند، جامه ات را ببرد. بسا که به آن دوباره نیاز پیدا کند، تو مسلما نه." -Kahlil Gibran
"let there be no purpose in friendship save the deepening of the spirit.For love that seeks aught but the disclosure of its own mystery is not love but a net cast forth: and only the unprofitable is caught." -Kahlil Gibran
"وهنالك الذين يعطون ولا يعرفون معنى للألم في عطائهم، ولا يتطلبون فرحًا، ولا يرغبون في إذاعة فضائلهم، هؤلاء يعطون مما عندهم كما يعطي الريحان عبير العطر في ذلك الوادي!" -Kahlil Gibran
"ما أجهل الناس الذين يتوهمون أن المحبة تتولد بالمعاشرة الطويلة والمرافقة المستمرة. إن المحبة الحقيقية هي ابنة التفاهم الروحي، وإن لم يتم هذا التفاهم بلحظةٍ واحدةٍ لا یتم بعامٍ ولا بجیلٍ کاملٍ." -Kahlil Gibran
"La vita non è una questione di come sopravvivere alla tempesta, ma di come danzare nella pioggia." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن الجمال في وجه سلمى لم يكن منطبقًا على المقاييس التي وضعها البشر للجمال، بل كان غريبًا كالحلم أو كالرؤيا أو كفكر علوي لا يقاس ولا يحد ولا يُنْسَخ بريشة المصور، ولا يتجسم برخام الحفار. جمال سلمى لم يكن في شَعْرها الذهبي، بل في هالة الطُّهر المحيطة به، ولم يكن في عينيها الكبيرتين، بل في النور المنبعث منهما، ولا في شفتيها الورديتين، بل في الحلاوة السائلة عليهما، ولا في عنقها العاجي، بل في كيفية انحنائه قليلًا إلى الأمام، جمال سلمى لم يكن في كمال جسدها، بل في نبالة روحها الشبيهة بشعلة بيضاء متقدة سابحة بين الأرض واللانهاية. جمال سلمى كان نوعًا من ذلك النبوغ الشعري الذي نشاهد أشباحه في القصائد السامية والرسوم والأنغام الخالدة. وأصحاب النبوغ تعساء، مهما تسامت أرواحهم تظلُّ مكتنفة بغلاف من الدموع." -Kahlil Gibran
"When you have solved all the mysteries of life you long for death, for it is but another mystery of life." -Kahlil Gibran
"تعالي يا سلمى، تعالي ننتصب كالأبراج أمام الزوبعة. هلمي نقف كالجنود أمام الأعداء متلقِّين شفار السيوف بصدورنا لا بظهورنا، فإن صُرعنا نموت كالشهداء وإن تغلَّبْنا نعشْ كالأبطال … إن عذاب النفس بثباتها أمام المصاعب والمتاعب لهو أشرف من تقهقرها إلى حيث الأمن والطمأنينة. فالفراشة التي تظلّ مرفرفة حول السراج حتى تحترق هي أسمى من الخلد الذي يعيش براحة وسلامة في نَفَقِهِ المظلم. والنواة التي لا تحتمل برد الشتاء وثورات العناصر لا تقوى على شق الأرض ولن تفرح بجمال نيسان … هلمي نَسِرْ يا سلمى بقدم ثابتة على هذه الطريق الوعرة رافعين أعيننا نحو الشمس كيلا نرى الجماجم المطروحة بين الصخور، والأفاعي المنسابة بين الأشواك، فإن أوقفنا الخوف في منتصف الطريق أسمعتنا أشباح الليل صراخ الاستهزاء والسخرية، وإن بلغنا قمة الجبل بشجاعة تترنم معنا أرواح الفضاء بأنشودة النصر والاستظهار … خففي عنك يا سلمى وجففي دموعك، وأخفي هذه الكآبة الظاهرة على محيّاك،" -Kahlil Gibran
"But I say, not in sleep, but in the overwakefulness of noontide, that the wind speaks not more sweetly to the giant oaks than to the least of all the blades of grass;" -Kahlil Gibran
"For what is your friend that you should seek him with hours to kill?Seek him always with hours to live.For it is his to fill your need, but not your emptiness." -Kahlil Gibran
"الغباوة مهد الخلو والخلو مرقد الراحة،" -Kahlil Gibran
"it is his to fill your need, but not your emptiness." -Kahlil Gibran
"And let there be no purpose in friendship save the deepening of the spirit." -Kahlil Gibran
"The angels know that too many practical men eat their bread with the sweat of the dreamer's brow." -Kahlil Gibran
"وليكن هنالك مجالٌ لرياح السماء أَن ترقص في ما بينكم، أَحبّوا بعضكم بعضًا، ولكن حذار أَن تجعلوا من الحبّ قيدًا. بل ليكن حبّكم بحرًا مائجًا ضمن شواطئ نفوسكم. وليملإِ الواحد منكم كأْس رفيقه، ولكن دون أَن يشرب الاثنان من كأْس واحدة. وليعطِ واحدكم الآخر من خبزه، ولكن من غير أَن يأْكل الاثنان من عينِ الرغيف. غنّوا، وارقصوا، وافرحوا معًا، ولكن ليبقَ كلّ واحد منكم على حدة، كما تبقى أوتار القيثار على حدة إذ هي تهتزّ معًا بنغم واحد. جودوا بقلوبكم ولكن دون أَن تأْتمنوا سواكم عليها. فما من يد تتَّسع لقلوبكم إلّا يدُ الحياة. وقفوا معًا، ولكن من غير أَن يلتصق واحدكم بالآخر. فأَعمدة الهيكل تتساند ولا تتلاصق. والسنديانة والسروة لا تنمو إحداهما في ظلّ الأُخرى، وإن نبتتا في تربة واحدة." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن الإنسان متى جلس على عرش الملك، فقد صار عبدًا، ومتى أدرك الناس أعماق روحه، فقد طوى كتاب حياته،" -Kahlil Gibran
"Love gives naught but itself and takes naught but from itself. Love possesses not nor would it be possessed;" -Kahlil Gibran
"You are good when you strive to give of yourself. Yet you are not evil when you seek gain for yourself." -Kahlil Gibran
"Only a slave restores a crown that has fallen." -Kahlil Gibran
"Nici un om nu poate să vă descopere nimic, afară numai de ceea ce zace pe jumătate adormit, în zorii conștiinței voastre." -Kahlil Gibran
"Only when you are empty are you at standstill and balanced." -Kahlil Gibran
"even like an ocean, you cannot hasten your tides." -Kahlil Gibran
"Silence prevailed, and I could see the pallor of death on the old man`s face. Then he rolled his eyes and looked at us and whispered, ""Don`t call the physician, for he might extend my sentence in this prison by his medicine. The days of slavery are gone, and my soul seeks the freedom of the skies..." -Kahlil Gibran
"Man finds the expatriation of his beloved friends difficult to bear because his pleasure comes through the five senses. But Gibran's soul has already grown beyond that to a plane of higher enjoyment which does not require the mediation of the five senses. His soul sees, hears, and feels, but not through the medium of eyes, ears, and fingers. His soul roams the whole world and returns without the use of feet, cars, and ships." -Kahlil Gibran
"أريد أن أموت شوقا ولا أحيا أملا" -Kahlil Gibran
"L'amour ne donne rien que lui-même et il ne prend rien que de lui-même.L'amour ne possède ni ne peut être possédé;Car l'amour suffit à l'amour." -Kahlil Gibran
"Let me take you,daughter of the fields,to the lovers' vineyard.The wine we press will quench the fires of longing.You need not fear, my love,for never have the stars on hightold what they know.Night's thick mists swirl in these vineyards;they will veil our secrets." -Kahlil Gibran
"For if you bake bread with indifference, you bake a bitter bread that feeds but half man's hunger. And if you grudge the crushing of the grapes, your grudge distills a poison in the wine. And if you sing though as angels, and love not the singing, you muffle man's ears to the voices of the day and the voices of the night." -Kahlil Gibran
"think not you can direct the course of love, for love, if it finds you worthy, directs your course." -Kahlil Gibran
"Every great man I have known had something small in his make-up; and it was that small something which prevented inactivity or madness or suicide." -Kahlil Gibran
"در وجود ما عقل اسفنج است و دل جویباریآیا عجیب نیست که بیشتر ما جذب کردن را به جاری بودن ترجیح می دهیم؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"One must know pain in order to see the wonder in the daily miracles of life. Accept the seasons of the heart as you accept the seasons in nature. Be serene in the winters of your grief. Pain is the bitter potion by which the physician within you heals your sick self. Therefore trust the physician, and drink his remedy in silence and tranquillity." -Kahlil Gibran
"The archer sees the mark upon the path of the infinite, and He bends you with His might that His arrows may go swift and far. Let your bending in the archer's hand be for gladness; For even as He loves the arrow that flies, so He loves also the bow that is stable." -Kahlil Gibran
"Vos vêtements dissimulent une grande part de votre beauté, mais ne cachent pas ce qui est laid." -Kahlil Gibran
"Cuando reciban el llamado del amor, deben seguirlo aunque sus caminos sean difíciles. Y cuando los brazos del amor los envuelvan, deben entregarse a él aunque su canto destruya sus sueños, al igual que el viento norte devasta el jardín con sus flores'." -Kahlil Gibran
"he who has deserved to drink from the ocean of life deserves to fill his cup from your little stream." -Kahlil Gibran
"The Creation         The God separated a spirit from Himself and fashioned it into Beauty. He showered upon her all the blessings of gracefulness and kindness. He gave her the cup of happiness and said, 'Drink not from this cup unless you forget the past and the future, for happiness is naught but the moment.' And He also gave her a cup of sorrow and said, 'Drink from this cup and you will understand the meaning of the fleeting instants of the joy of life, for sorrow ever abounds." -Kahlil Gibran
"من منَّا لا يذوب حنينًا إلى تلك الساعة الغريبة التي إذا انتبه فيها فجأة رأى كُلِّيَّتَه قد انقلبت وتحولت، وأعماقه قد اتّسعت وانبسطت وتبطَّنت بانفعالات لذيذة بكل ما فيها من مرارة الكِتْمان، مستحبة بكل ما يكتنفها من الدموع والشوق والسُّهاد؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"تعالَ نخرج إلى الحديقة ونجلس بين الأشجار لنرى القمر طالعًا من وراء الجبل." -Kahlil Gibran
"The truly just is he who feels half guilty of your misdeeds." -Kahlil Gibran
"Ti amo.Sei un pensiero troppo importanteper essere stretto in una mano,sei un canto ricorrente nei miei sogni.L'amore è una parola di luce,scritta da una mano di luce,su una pagina di luce." -Kahlil Gibran
"Love has no other desire but to fulfil itself. But if you love and must needs have desires, let these be your desires: To melt and be like a running brook that sings its melody to the night. To know the pain of too much tenderness. To be wounded by your own understanding of love; And to bleed willingly and joyfully. To wake at dawn with a winged heart and give thanks for another day of loving; To rest at the noon hour and meditate love's ecstasy; To return home at eventide with gratitude; And then to sleep with a prayer for the beloved in your heart and a song of praise upon your lips." -Kahlil Gibran
"The Sphinx spoke only once, and the Sphinx said, 'A grain of sand is a desert, and a desert is a grain of sand; and now let us all be silent again.'I heard the Sphinx, but I did not understand." -Kahlil Gibran
"Fame is the shadow of passion standing in the light." -Kahlil Gibran
"And I say that life is indeed darkness ‘save when there is urge, And all urge is blind save when there is knowledge, And all knowledge is vain save when there is work, And all work is empty save when there is love;" -Kahlil Gibran
"جمال النفس مشفوعًا بجمال الجسد هي حقيقة ظاهرة غامضة نفهمها بالمحبة ونلمسها بالطهر، وعندما نحاول وصفها بالكلام تختفي عن بصائرنا وراء ضباب الحيرة والالتباس." -Kahlil Gibran
"در باغ پدرم دو قفس هست. در یکی شیری است، که بردگان پدرم از صحرا نینوا آورده اند؛ در قفس دیگر گنجشکی است که آواز نمی خواند. سپیده دم هر روز گنجشک به شیر ندا می‌دهد: صبح بخیر، ای برادر زندانی." -Kahlil Gibran
"There is something greater and purer than what the mouth utters. Silence illuminates our souls, whispers to our hearts, and brings them together. Silence separates us from ourselves, makes us sail the firmament of spirit, and brings us closer to Heaven; it makes us feel that bodies are no more than prisons and that this world is only a place of exile." -Kahlil Gibran
"الكآبة الخرساء أنتم أيها الناس تذكرون فجر الشبيبة فرحين باسترجاع رسومه، متأسفين على انقضائه، أما أنا فأذكره مثلما يذكر الحر المُعْتَق جدرانَ سجنه وثقل قيوده. أنتم تدْعون تلك السنين التي تجيء بين الطفولة والشباب عهدًا ذهبيًّا يهزأ بمتاعب الدهر وهواجسه، ويطير مرفرفًا فوق رؤوس المشاعل والهموم مثلما تجتاز النحلة فوق المستنقعات الخبيثة سائرة نحو البساتين المزهرة، أما أنا فلا أستطيع أن أدعو سِنِي الصبا سوى عهد آلام خفية خرساء كانت تقطن قلبي وتثور كالعواصف في جوانبه،" -Kahlil Gibran
"شاهدت ملائكة السماء تنظر إليَّ من وراء أجفان امرأة جميلة، وفيها رأيت أبالسة الجحيم يضجون ويتراكضون في صدر رجل مجرم، ومن لا يشاهد الملائكة والشياطين في محاسن الحياة ومكروهاتها يظل قلبه بعيدًا عن المعرفة ونفسه فارغة من العواطف." -Kahlil Gibran
"You give but little when you give of your possessions.  It is when you give of yourself that you truly give." -Kahlil Gibran
"And think not you can direct the course of love -for love, if it finds you worthy, directs your course." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your joy is your sorrow unmasked. And the selfsame well from which your laughter rises was oftentimes filled with your tears. And how else can it be? The deeper that sorrow carves into your being, the more joy you can contain. Is not the cup that holds your wine the very cup that was burned in the potter's oven? And is not the lute that soothes your spirit, the very wood that was hollowed with knives? When you are joyous, look deep into your heart and you shall find it is only that which has given you sorrow that is giving you joy. When you are sorrowful look again in your heart, and you shall see that in truth you are weeping for that which has been your delight." -Kahlil Gibran
"The life that the rich man spends in heaping up gold is in truth like the life of the worms in the grave. It is a sign of fear." -Kahlil Gibran
"Life without love is like a tree without blossoms or fruit." -Kahlil Gibran
"Say not, 'I have found the truth', but rather, 'I have found a truth'." -Kahlil Gibran
"And when he is silent your heart ceases not to listen to his heart; For without words, in friendship, all thoughts, all desires, all expectations are born and shared, with joy that is unclaimed. When you part from your friend, you grieve not; For that which you love most in him may be clearer in his absence, as the mountain to the climber is clearer from the plain." -Kahlil Gibran
"منزله، فذهبتُ ونفسي جائعة إلى ذلك الخبز العلوي الذي وضعته السماء بين يديْ سلمى، ذلك الخبز الروحي الذي نلتهمه بأفواه أفئدتنا فنزداد جوعًا، ذلك الخبز السحري الذي ذاق طعمَه قيسٌ العربي ودانتي الطلياني وسافو اليونانية، فالتهبت أحشاؤهم وذابت" -Kahlil Gibran
"The deeper that sorrow carves into your being, the more joy you can contain. Is not the cup that holds your wine the very cup that was burned in the potter's oven? And is not the lute that soothes your spirit the very wood that was hollowed with knives? When you are joyous, look deep into your heart and you shall find it is only that which has given you sorrow that is giving you joy." -Kahlil Gibran
"If I were to choose between the power writing a poem and the ecstasy of a poem unwritten, I would choose the ecstasy. It is better poetry. But you and all my neighbors agree that I always choose badly." -Kahlil Gibran
"رأيت الكهناء يروغون كالثعلب ، والمسحاء الكذبة يحتالون على ميول النفس ، والإنسان يصرخ مستنجداً بالحكمة" -Kahlil Gibran
"I believe that you can say to the founders of this great nation, `Here I am, a youth, a young tree whose roots were plucked from the hills of Lebanon, yet I am deeply rooted here, and I would be fruitful.'And I believe that you can say to Abraham Lincoln, the blessed, `Jesus of Nazareth touched your lips when you spoke, and guided your hand when you wrote; and I shall uphold all that you have said and all that you have written.'I believe that even as your fathers came to this land to produce riches,you were born to produce riches by intelligence and labor.I believe that it is in you to be good citizens.And what is it to be a good citizen?It is to acknowledge the other person's rights before asserting your own,but always to be conscious of your own.It is to be free in word and deed,but it is also to know that your freedom is subject to the other person's freedom.It is to produce by labor and only by labor, and to spend less than you have produced that your children may not be dependent upon the state for support when you are no more.It is to stand before the towers of New York and Washington, Chicago and San Francisco saying in your hearts, `I am the descendent of a people that built Damascus and Byblos, and Tyre and Sidon and Antioch45, and I am here to build with you, and with a will.'It is to be proud of being an American,but it is also to be proud that your fathers and mothers came from a land upon which God laid His gracious hand and raised His messengers." -Kahlil Gibran
"There are those who give little of the much which they have - and they give it for recognition and their hidden desire makes their gives unwholesome. And there are those who have little and give all. These are the believers in life and the bounty of life, and their coffer is never empty." -Kahlil Gibran
"Love has no other desire but to fulfil itself." -Kahlil Gibran
"به ناگفته ها اعتماد کنید زیرا سکوت مردم از گفتارشان به حقیقت نزدیک تر است" -Kahlil Gibran
"But if you love and must needs have desires, let these be your desires: To melt and be like a running brook that sings its melody to the night. To know the pain of too much tenderness. To be wounded by your own understanding of love; And to bleed willingly and joyfully." -Kahlil Gibran
"When secrets straiten the heart, when eyes are made raw by hot tears, and ribs nearly crack from the swelling of what is hidden in the breast, man can find no comfort but in words and complaint. Sorrow, my friend, is eased by complaint." -Kahlil Gibran
"I want you to love me as a poet loves his sorrowful thoughts. I want you to remember me as a traveller remembers a calm pool in which his image was reflected as he drank its water. I want you to remember me as a mother remember her child that died before it saw the light, and I want you to remember me as a merciful king remembers a prisoner who died before his pardon reached him. I want you to be my companion, and I want you to visit my father and console him in his solitude because I shall be leaving him soon and shall be a stranger to him." -Kahlil Gibran
"The heart`s affections are divided like the branches of the cedar tree; if the tree loses one strong branch, it will suffer but it does not die. It will pour all its vitality into the next branch so that it will grow and fill the empty place." -Kahlil Gibran
"فأنا متطرف حتى الجنون،أميل إلى الهدم ميلي إلى البناء..." -Kahlil Gibran
"لأن النفس التي ظل الله مرة لا تخشى بعد ذلك أشباح الأبالسة" -Kahlil Gibran
"وعلمت للمرة الأولى أن الإنسان وإن وُلد حرًّا يظل عبدًا لقساوة الشرائع التي سنها آباؤه وأجداده، وأن القضاء الذي نتوهمه سرًّا علويًّا هو استسلام اليوم إلى مآتي الأمس، وخضوع الغد إلى ميول اليوم. وكم مرة فكرت منذ تلك الليلة إلى هذه الساعة بالنواميس النفسية التي جعلت سلمى تختار الموت بدلًا من الحياة،" -Kahlil Gibran
"ثم أجبتها قائلًا: إن البشر لا يصدقون حكايتنا لأنهم لا يعلمون بأن المحبة هي الزهرة الوحيدة التي تنبت وتنمو بغير معاونة الفصول، ولكن هل هو نيسان الذي جمعنا لأول مرة؟ وهل هي هذه الساعة التي أوقفتنا في قدس أقداس الحياة؟ أما جمعت روحينا قبضةُ الله قبل أن تصيِّرنا الولادة أسيري الأيام والليالي؟ إن حياة الإنسان يا سلمى لا تبتدئ في الرحم، كما أنها لا تنتهي أمام القبر، وهذا الفضاء الواسع المملوء بأشعة القمر والكواكب لا يخلو من الأرواح المتعانقة بالمحبة والنفوس المتضامنة بالتفاهم." -Kahlil Gibran
"Spring is beautiful everywhere, but it is most beautiful in Syria. It is a spirit that roams round the earth but hovers over Syria, conversing with kings and prophets, singing with the rives the songs of Solomon, and repeating with the Holy Cedars of Lebanon the memory of ancient glory. Beirut, free from the mud of winter and the dust of summer, is like a bride in the spring, or like a mermaid sitting by the side of a brook drying her smooth skin in the rays of the sun." -Kahlil Gibran
"Beauty is eternity gazing at itself in a mirror. But you are eternity and you are the mirror." -Kahlil Gibran
"Those who give you a serpent when you ask for a fish, may have nothing but serpents to give. It is then generosity on their part." -Kahlil Gibran
"In the still night when all created things embrace the phantom of sleep, I alone am awake, now singing, now sighing. Alas, wakefulness has destroyed me, but I am a lover and the truth of Love is awakening. Behold my life; As I have lived, so shall I die." -Kahlil Gibran
"They say the nightingale pierces his bosom with a thorn when he sings his love song. So do we all. How else should we sing?" -Kahlil Gibran
"Then a lawyer said, But what of our Laws, master? And he answered: You delight in laying down laws, Yet you delight more in breaking them. Like children playing by the ocean who build sand-towers with constancy and then destroy them with laughter." -Kahlil Gibran
"Ne možete dijeliti pravednika od nepravednika, ni dobroga od zločinca; jer obojica se drže za ruke pred licem sunca kao što su crne i bijele niti skupa utkane." -Kahlil Gibran
"Chapter 16 — Pain And a woman spoke, saying, Tell us of Pain. And he said: Your pain is the breaking of the shell that encloses your understanding. Even as the stone of the fruit must break, that its heart may stand in the sun, so must you know pain. And could you keep your heart in wonder at the daily miracles of your life, your pain would not seem less wondrous than your joy; And you would accept the seasons of your heart, even as you have always accepted the seasons that pass over your fields. And you would watch with serenity through the winters of your grief. Much of your pain is self-chosen. It is the bitter potion by which the physician within you heals your sick self. Therefore trust the physician, and drink his remedy in silence and tranquillity: For his hand, though heavy and hard, is guided by the tender hand of the Unseen, And the cup he brings, though it burn your lips, has been fashioned of the clay which the Potter has moistened with His own sacred tears." -Kahlil Gibran
"And you would accept the seasons of your heart just as you have always accepted that seasons pass over your fields and you would watch with serenity through the winter of your grief." -Kahlil Gibran
"In my need for your nearness I feign remoteness, and in fear of the ebb tide of your love I guard the floodgates of my love." -Kahlil Gibran
"ولكنني سأرفع في وادي ظل الموت تمثالًا للحب وأعبده. سأتخذ الحب سميرًا وأسمعه منشدًا وأشربه خمرًا وألبسه ثوبًا." -Kahlil Gibran
"لكل فتى سلمى تظهر على حين غفلة في ربيع حياته،" -Kahlil Gibran
"Love is a gracious host to his guests though to the unbidden his house is a mirage and a mockery." -Kahlil Gibran
"An exaggeration is a truth that has lost its temper." -Kahlil Gibran
"life is indeed darkness save when there is urge,And all urge is blind save when there is knowledge.And all knowledge is vain save when there is work,And all work is empty save when there is love;And when you work with love you bind your self to yourself, and to one another, and to God." -Kahlil Gibran
"And when he is silent your heart ceases not to listen to his heart;For without words, in friendship, all thoughts, all desires, all expectations are born and shared, with joy that is unclaimed." -Kahlil Gibran
"sólo seréis libres cuando el deseo de la libertad no sea un arnés para vosotros," -Kahlil Gibran
"‎I am night - intimate, joyous, tranquil, troubled. My darkness has no beginning and my depths no end. When the spirits arise, splendid in the light of their joys, my spirit comes frozen in the shadows of its pain." -Kahlil Gibran
"زندگی اندیشه ای طولانی است." -Kahlil Gibran
"Love one another but make not a bond of love: let it rather be a moving sea between the shores of your souls." -Kahlil Gibran
"Only when a juggler misses catching his ball does he appeal to me." -Kahlil Gibran
"All you have shall some day be given; Therefore give now, that the season of giving may be yours and not your inheritors'." -Kahlil Gibran
"Verily the lust for comfort murders the passion of the soul, and then walks grining in the funeral." -Kahlil Gibran
"Only once have I been made mute. It was when a man asked me, ""Who are you?" -Kahlil Gibran
"ONLY when you drink from the river of silence shall you indeed sing. And when you have reached the mountain top, then you shall begin to climb. And when the earth shall claim your limbs, then shall you truly dance." -Kahlil Gibran
"Mayhap a funeral among men is a wedding feast among the angels." -Kahlil Gibran
"love that seeks aught but the disclosure of its own mystery is not love but a net cast forth: and only the unprofitable is caught." -Kahlil Gibran
"أنتم أيها الناس تذكرون فجر الشبيبة فرحين باسترجاع رسومه، متأسفين على انقضائه، أما أنا فأذكره مثلما يذكر الحر المُعْتَق جدرانَ سجنه وثقل قيوده. أنتم تدْعون تلك السنين التي تجيء بين الطفولة والشباب عهدًا ذهبيًّا يهزأ بمتاعب الدهر وهواجسه، ويطير" -Kahlil Gibran
"تتغلم الأجيال الآتيه المساواة من الفقر، والمحبة من الأحزان." -Kahlil Gibran
"For what is it to die but to stand naked in the wind and to melt into the sun? And what is it to cease breathing, but to free the breath from its restless tides, that it may rise and expand and seek God unencumbered? Only when you drink from the river of silence shall you indeed sing. And when you have reached the mountain top, then you shall begin to climb. And when the earth shall claim your limbs, then shall you truly dance." -Kahlil Gibran
"Votre joie est votre peine sans masque." -Kahlil Gibran
"Every visit gave me a new meaning to her beauty and a new insight into her sweet spirit, Until she became a book whose pages I could understand and whose praises I could sing, but which I could never finish reading. A woman whom Providence has provided with beauty of spirit and body is a truth, at the same time both open and secret, which we can understand only by love, and touch only by virtue; and when we attempt to describe such a woman she disappears like vapour." -Kahlil Gibran
"Siempre ha sido verdad que el amor no conoce su hondura hasta la hora de la separación." -Kahlil Gibran
"And forget not that the earth delights to feel your bare feet and the winds long to play with your hair." -Kahlil Gibran
"If your heart is a volcano how shall you expect flowers to bloom in your hands?" -Kahlil Gibran
"When you part from your friend, you grieve not; For that which you love most in him may be clearer in his absence, as the mountain to the climber is clearer from the plain." -Kahlil Gibran
"It is when your spirit goes wandering upon the wind, That you, alone and unguarded, commit a wrong unto others and therefore unto yourself." -Kahlil Gibran
"A las puertas de la ciudad y a la lumbre de vuestro hogar yo os he visto postraros y adorar vuestra propia libertad. Así como los esclavos se humillan ante un tirano y lo alaban aun cuando los mata. ¡Ay! En el jardín del templo y a la sombra de la ciudadela he visto a los más libres de vosotros usar su libertad como un yugo y un dogal. Y mi corazón sangró en mi pecho porque sólo podéis ser libres cuando aíro el deseo de perseguir la libertad sea un arnés para vosotros y cuando dejéis de hablar de la libertad como una meta y una realización. Seréis, en verdad, libres, no cuando vuestros días estén libres de cuidado ni vuestras noches de necesidad y pena. Sino, más bien, cuando esas cosas rodeen vuestra vida y, sin embargo, os elevéis sobre ellas desnudos y sin ataduras. Y, ¿cómo os elevaréis más allá de vuestros días y vuestras noches a menos que rompáis las cadenas que, en el amanecer de vuestro entendimiento, atasteis alrededor de vuestro mediodía? En verdad, eso que llamáis libertad es la más fuerte de esas cadenas, a pesar de que sus eslabones brillen al sol y deslumbren vuestros ojos." -Kahlil Gibran
"The most beautiful thing in life is that our souls remain hovering over the places where we once enjoyed ourselves. I am one of those who remembers such places regardless of distance or time. I do not let one single phantom disappear with the cloud, and it is my everlasting remembrance of the past that causes my sorrow sometimes. But if I had to choose between joy and sorrow, I would not exchange the sorrows of my heart for the joy of the whole world." -Kahlil Gibran
"For what is evil but good tortured by its own hunger and thirst? Verily when good is hungry it seeks food even in dark caves, and when it thirsts it drinks even of dead waters." -Kahlil Gibran
"Jer život i smrt su jedno, kao sto su jedno rijeka i more." -Kahlil Gibran
"Say not, 'I have found the truth,' but rather, 'I have found a truth." -Kahlil Gibran
"There are those who give little of the much which they have - and they give it for recognition and their hidden desire makes their gifts unwholesome. And there are those who have little and give it all. These are the believers in life and the bounty of life, and their coffer is never empty. And there are those who give and know not pain in giving, nor do they seek joy, nor give with mindfulness of virtue; they give as in yonder valley the myrtle breathes its fragrance into space.Through the hands of such as these God speaks, and from behind their eyes He smiles upon the earth.You often say, 'I would give, but only to the deserving.' The trees in your orchard say not so, they give that they may live, for to withhold is to perish." -Kahlil Gibran
"when one of you falls down he falls for those behind him, a caution against the stumbling stone." -Kahlil Gibran
"It is Love, purified with fire, that stops me from following you to the farthest land. Love kills my desires so that you may live freely and virtuously. Limited love asks for possession of the beloved, but the unlimited asks only for itself." -Kahlil Gibran
"I too am my own forerunner, though I sit in the shadows of my trees and seem motionless." -Kahlil Gibran
"لقد طالت رسالتي، ومن يجد لذة في شيء أطاله" -Kahlil Gibran
"There is something in our life which is nobler and more supreme than fame; and this something is the great deed that invokes fame." -Kahlil Gibran
"You have many lovers, and yet I alone love you.Other man love themselves in your nearness.I love you in yourself" -Kahlil Gibran
"Cinta sejati tidak pernah mati. Ia hanya berdiam dalam hati yang tak pernah lupa." -Kahlil Gibran
"I am indebted for all that I call `I' to women, ever since I was an infant. Women opened the wisdom of my eyes and the doors of my spirit. Had it not been for the woman-mother, the woman-sister, and the woman-friend, I would have been sleeping among those who seek the tranquility of the world with their snoring." -Kahlil Gibran
"It is indeed misery if I stretch an empty hand to men and receive nothing; but it is hopelessness if I stretch a full hand and find none to receive." -Kahlil Gibran
"The soul, May, does not see anything in life save that which is in the soul itself. It does not believe except in its own private event, and when it experiences something, the outcome becomes a part of it." -Kahlil Gibran
"On a moonless night a man entered into his neighbour's garden and stole the largest melon he could find and brought it home.He opened it and found it still unripe.Then behold a marvel!The man's conscience woke and smote him with remorse; and he repented having stolen the melon." -Kahlil Gibran
"the wind speaks not more sweetly to the giant oaks than to the least of all the blades of grass" -Kahlil Gibran
"life and death are one, even as the river and the sea are one." -Kahlil Gibran
"YOU shall be free indeed when your days are not without a care nor your nights without a want and a grief," -Kahlil Gibran
"Solitude is a silent storm that breaks down all our dead branches; Yet it sends our living roots deeper into the living heart of the living earth." -Kahlil Gibran
"Beauty is not in the face; beauty is a light in the heart," -Kahlil Gibran
"if it is a care you would cast off, that care has been chosen by you rather than imposed upon you." -Kahlil Gibran
"And then shall I come to you, a boundless drop to a boundless ocean." -Kahlil Gibran
"പ്രേമം പ്രേമത്താല്‍ തന്നെ പൂര്‍ണമാണ്. നീ സ്നേഹിക്കുമ്പോള്‍ 'ഈശ്വരന്‍ എന്‍റെ ഹൃദയത്തിലുണ്ട്' എന്നു പറയരുത്. 'ഞാന്‍ ഈശ്വരന്‍റെ ഹൃദയത്തിലുണ്ട്' എന്നു പറയുക." -Kahlil Gibran
"They have exiled me now from their society and I am pleased, because humanity does not exile except the one whose noble spirit rebels against despotism and oppression. He who does not prefer exile to slavery is not free by any measure of freedom, truth and duty. " -Kahlil Gibran
"Ljubav oduvijek uvidi svoju pravu dubinu tek kada kucne trenutak rastanka." -Kahlil Gibran
"A Poet's Death is His Life" -Kahlil Gibran
"La voix ne peut emporter dans son envol la langue et les lèvres qui lui ont donné des ailes. C'est seule qu'elle doit s'élancer dans l'éther." -Kahlil Gibran
"أَحبّوا بعضكم بعضًا، ولكن حذار أَن تجعلوا من الحبّ قيدًا. بل ليكن حبّكم بحرًا مائجًا ضمن شواطئ نفوسكم. وليملإِ الواحد منكم كأْس رفيقه، ولكن دون أَن يشرب الاثنان من كأْس واحدة. وليعطِ واحدكم الآخر من خبزه، ولكن من غير أَن يأْكل الاثنان من عينِ الرغيف. غنّوا، وارقصوا، وافرحوا معًا، ولكن ليبقَ كلّ واحد منكم على حدة، كما تبقى أوتار القيثار على حدة إذ هي تهتزّ معًا بنغم واحد. جودوا بقلوبكم ولكن دون أَن تأْتمنوا سواكم عليها. فما من يد تتَّسع لقلوبكم إلّا يدُ الحياة. وقفوا معًا، ولكن من غير أَن يلتصق واحدكم بالآخر. فأَعمدة الهيكل تتساند ولا تتلاصق. والسنديانة والسروة لا تنمو إحداهما في ظلّ الأُخرى، وإن نبتتا في تربة واحدة." -Kahlil Gibran
"Substantial things deaden a man without suffering; love awakens him with enlivening pains. " -Kahlil Gibran
"Is not religion all deeds and all reflection" -Kahlil Gibran
"Your daily life is your temple and your religion. Whenever you enter into it take with you your all." -Kahlil Gibran
"And the priestess spoke again and said:'Speak to us of Reason and Passion'And he answered saying:Your soul is oftentimes a battlefield, upon which your reason and your judgment wage war against passion and your appetite.Would that I could be the peacemaker in your soul, that I might turn the discord and the rivalry of your elements into oneness and melody.But how shall I, unless you yourselves be also the peacemakers, nay, the lovers of all your elements?Your reason and your passion are the rudder and the sails of your seafaring soul.If either your sails or our rudder be broken, you can but toss and drift, or else be held at a standstill in mid-seas.For reason, ruling alone, is a force confining; and passion, unattended, is a flame that burns to its own destruction.Therefore let your soul exalt your reason to the height of passion; that it may sing;And let it direct your passion with reason, that your passion may live through its own daily resurrection, and like the phoenix rise above its own ashes.I would have you consider your judgment and your appetite even as you would two loved guests in your house.Surely you would not honour one guest above the other; for he who is more mindful of one loses the love and the faith of both.Among the hills, when you sit in the cool shade of the white poplars, sharing the peace and serenity of distant fields and meadows – then let your heart say in silence, 'God rests in reason.'And when the storm comes, and the mighty wind shakes the forest, and thunder and lightning proclaim the majesty of the sky – then let your heart say in awe, 'God moves in passion.'And since you are a breath in God's sphere, and a leaf in God's forest, you too should rest in reason and move in passion." -Kahlil Gibran
"You fan but the fire that consumes you." -Kahlil Gibran
"آن گاه که خدا مرا به صورت سنگریزه ای به این دریاچه شگرف پرتاب کرد، من با دوایر بی شمار سطح آن را بر آشفتم. اما چون به عمق آن رسیدم، سکون بسیار یافتم" -Kahlil Gibran
"فاستأنست بالسكوت؛ لأن الشعور العميق غير المتناهي يفقد شيئًا من خاصته المعنوية عندما يتجسَّم بالألفاظ المحدودة،" -Kahlil Gibran
"THERE are those among you who seek the talkative through fear of being alone. The silence of aloneness reveals to their eyes their naked selves and they would escape. And there are those who talk, and without knowledge or forethought reveal a truth which they themselves do not understand." -Kahlil Gibran
"My work in these days is like a chain of many rings connected with one another. I have changed my way of living and I miss some of the joys of loneliness that embraced my soul before I dreamed about going to Paris." -Kahlil Gibran
"Once a man sat at my board and ate my bread and drank my wine and went away laughing at me.Then he came again for bread and wine, and I spurned him;And the angels laughed at me." -Kahlil Gibran
"There is nothing more difficult than the existence of a strong spirit in a weak body." -Kahlil Gibran
"Notice those gorgeous homes that represent happiness, glory and domination; they are naught but caverns of misery and distress." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن بهرجة الأعراس الشرقية تصعد بنفوس الفتيان والصبايا صعود النسر إلى ما وراء الغيوم، ثم تهبط بهم هبوط حجر الرحى إلى أعماق اليمّ، بل هي مثل آثار الأقدام على رمال الشاطئ لا تلبث أن تمحوها الأمواج." -Kahlil Gibran
"Vous donnez, mais bien peu quand vous donnez de vos possessions. C'est lorsque vous donnez de vous-même que vous donnez véritablement. Car que sont vos possessions, sinon des choses que vous conservez et gardez par peur d'en avoir besoin le lendemain ?" -Kahlil Gibran
"For the first time the sun kissed my own naked face and my soul was inflamed with love for the sun, and I wanted my masks no more. And as if in a trance I cried, 'Blessed, blessed are the thieves who stole my masks.' Thus I became a madman. And I have found both freedom of loneliness and the safety from being understood, for those who understand us enslave something in us. But let me not be too proud of my safety. Even a Thief in a jail is safe from another thief." -Kahlil Gibran
"I love to work and I do not let one moment pass without working. But the days in which I find myself dormant and my thought slothful are more bitter than quinine and more severe than the teeth of the wolf. I spend my life writing and painting, and my enjoyment in these two arts is above all other enjoyments." -Kahlil Gibran
"To wake at dawn with a winged heart and give thanks for another day of loving;" -Kahlil Gibran
"When I stood a clear mirror before you, you gazed into me and saw your image.Then you said, ""I love you.""But in truth you loved yourself in me." -Kahlil Gibran
"It is wrong to think that love comes from long companionship and persevering courtship. Love is the offspring of spiritual affinity and unless that affinity is created in a moment, it will not be created in years or even generations." -Kahlil Gibran
"فأغمضت" -Kahlil Gibran
"وعظتني نفسي فعلمتني أن لا أطرب لمديح ولا أجزع لمذمة. وقبل أن تعظني نفسي كنت أظل مرتابًا في قيمة أعمالي وقدرها حتى تبعث إليها الأيام بمن يقرظها أو يهجوها. أما الآن فقد عرفت أن الأشجار تُزهر في الربيع، وتثمر في الصيف ولا مطمع لها بالثناء، وتنثر أوراقها في الخريف وتتعرى في الشتاء ولا تخشى الملامة." -Kahlil Gibran
"But let there be spaces in your togetherness, And let the winds of the heavens dance between you. ***** Love one another, but make not a bond of love: Let it rather be a moving sea between the shores of your souls." -Kahlil Gibran
"ما أجهل الناس الذين يتوهَّمون أن المحبة تتولد بالمعاشرة الطويلة والمرافقة المستمرة. إن المحبة الحقيقية هي ابنة التفاهم الروحي، وإن لم يتم هذا التفاهم بلحظة واحدة لا يتم بعام ولا بجيل كامل." -Kahlil Gibran
"MUCH of your pain is self–chosen." -Kahlil Gibran
"Then a lawyer said, ""But what of our Laws, master?""And he answered:You delight in laying down laws,Yet you delight more in breaking them.Like children playing by the ocean who build sand-towers with constancy and then destroy them with laughter.But while you build your sand-towers the ocean brings more sand to the shore,And when you dest them the ocean laughs with you.Verily the ocean laughs always with the innocent.But what of those to whom life is not an ocean, and man-made laws are not sand-towers,But to whom life is a rock, and the law a chisel with which they would carve it in their own likeness?What of the cripple who hates dancers?What of the ox who loves his yoke and deems the elk and deer of the forest stray and vagrant things?What of the old serpent who cannot shed his skin, and calls all others naked and shameless?And of him who comes early to the wedding feast, and when over-fed and tired goes his way saying that all feasts are violation and all feasters law-breakers?What shall I say of these save that they too stand in the sunlight, but with their backs to the sun?They see only their shadows, and their shadows are their laws.And what is the sun to them but a caster of shadows?And what is it to acknowledge the laws but to stoop down and trace their shadows upon the earth?But you who walk facing the sun, what images drawn on the earth can hold you?You who travel with the wind, what weather vane shall direct your course?What man's law shall bind you if you break your yoke but upon no man's prison door?What laws shall you fear if you dance but stumble against no man's iron chains?And who is he that shall bring you to judgment if you tear off your garment yet leave it in no man's path?People of Orphalese, you can muffle the drum, and you can loosen the strings of the lyre, but who shall command the skylark not to sing?" -Kahlil Gibran
"La vita non è una questione di come sopravvivere alla tempesta, ma di come danzare nella pioggia!" -Kahlil Gibran
"I have learned silence from the talkative, toleration from the intolerant, and kindness from the unkind; yet, strange, I am ungrateful to these teachers." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن المحبة الحقيقية هي ابنة التفاهم الروحي، وإن لم يتم هذا التفاهم بلحظة واحدة لا يتم بعام ولا بجيل كامل." -Kahlil Gibran
"I used to be like a bird imprisoned in a cage, contenting myself with seeds dropped down to me by the hands of Destiny. But today I feel like a free bird who sees the beauty of the fields and prairies and wishes to fly in the spacious sky, mingling its affections, its fancy and its hopes with the ether." -Kahlil Gibran
"I love you, my brother, whoever you are—whether you worship in your church, kneel in your temple, or pray in your mosque. You and I are all children of one faith, for the divers paths of religion are fingers of the loving hand of one Supreme Being, a hand extended to all, offering completeness of spirit to all, eager to receive all." -Kahlil Gibran
"ما الدموع تلك التي تظهر متلمعة بأجفاننا، بل تلك التي تختبئ مستترة بقلوبنا." -Kahlil Gibran
"After saying these things the Forerunner covered his face with his hands and wept bitterly. For he knew in his heart that love humiliated in its nakedness is greater than love that seeks triumph in disguise; and he was ashamed." -Kahlil Gibran
"أنت يا مي صوت صارخ في البرية . أنت صوت رباني , والأصوات الربانية تبقى متموجة في الغلاف الأثيري حتى نهاية الزمن" -Kahlil Gibran
"Kulağa gelen müzik tekse de, onu oluşturan notalar farklıdır." -Kahlil Gibran
"Sana hizmet edene altından daha fazlasını borçlusun. O halde, ya kalbini ver ona ya da sen de hizmet et." -Kahlil Gibran
"أنا بريء من قوم يحسبون القحة شجاعة واللين جبانة؛ وأنا بريء ممن يتوهم الثرثرة معرفة والصمت جهالة والتصنع فنًّا." -Kahlil Gibran
"To be modest in speaking truth is hypocrisy. TM-ST-95" -Kahlil Gibran
"And he answered saying: You were born together, and together you shall be for evermore. You shall be together when the white wings of death scatter your days. Aye, you shall be together even in the silent memory of God. But let there be spaces in your togetherness. And let the winds of the heavens dance between you. Love one another, but make not a bond of love: Let it rather be a moving sea between the shores of your souls. Fill each other's cup but drink not from one cup. Give one another of your bread but eat not from the same loaf. Sing and dance together and be joyous, but let each one of you be alone, Even as the strings of a lute are alone though they quiver with the same music. Give your hearts, but not into each other's keeping. For only the hand of Life can contain your hearts. And stand together yet not too near together: For the pillars of the temple stand apart, And the oak tree and the cypress grow not in each other's shadow." -Kahlil Gibran
"some of you have called me aloof, and drunk with my own aloneness," -Kahlil Gibran
"والجاهل بين ظلمة ليله وظلمة نهاره، والراهبة بين أزهار إيمانها وأشواك وحشتها، والمومس بين أنياب ضعفها ومخالب حاجتها، والفقير بين مرارته وامتثاله، والغني بين مطامعه وادعائه، والشاعر بين ضباب أمسائه وشعاع أسحاره." -Kahlil Gibran
"Would that you were here to lend wings to my voice and turn my muttering into songs. Yet I shall read knowing that among the 'strangers' an invisible 'friend' is listening and smiling sweetly and tenderly الترجمة العربية: حبذا لو كنت هنا لتعيري أجنحة إلى صوتي وتحيلي همهماتي إلى تراتيل ومع ذلك فسوف أقرأ وأنا واثق أن لي بين ""الغرباء"" صديقا لا يُرى يسمعني ويبتسم لي بعذوبة وحنان" -Kahlil Gibran
"Spiritual disease is inherited from one generation to another until it has become a part of people, who look upon it, not as disease, but as a natural gift, showered by god upon Adam. If those people found someone free from the germs of this disease, they would think of him with shame and disgrace." -Kahlil Gibran
"Every great and beautiful thing in this world is generated by a single thought or feeling within a human being." -Kahlil Gibran
"the lust for comfort murders the passion of the soul, and then walks grinning in the funeral." -Kahlil Gibran
"Some of you say, 'Joy is greater thar sorrow,' and others say, 'Nay, sorrow is the greater.'But I say unto you, they are inseparable.Together they come, and when one sits, alone with you at your board, remember that the other is asleep upon your bed." -Kahlil Gibran
"Or have you only comfort? And the lust for comfort? That stealthy thing that enters your house a guest, and then becomes a host, and then a master." -Kahlil Gibran
"Yalnızlığın içinde günlerimizi isledin,uyanıklığın içinde uykumuzun ağlayışını ve gülüşünü izledin." -Kahlil Gibran
"You would measure time the measureless and the immeasurable." -Kahlil Gibran
"What of the old serpent who cannot shed his skin, and calls all others naked and shameless?" -Kahlil Gibran
"You are good when you are one with yourself. Yet when you are not one with yourself you are not evil. For a divided house is not a den of thieves; it is only a divided house." -Kahlil Gibran
"Đừng bao giờ cố gắng thay đổi một người, trừ khi anh ta muốn thay đổi chính mình." -Kahlil Gibran
"And a ship without rudder may wander aimlessly among perilous isles yet sink not to the bottom." -Kahlil Gibran
"Pero ahora clama en alta voz por ti y ante ti se descubre. Siempre ha sido verdad que él amor no conoce su hondura hasta la hora de la separación. Y vinieron otros también a suplicarle." -Kahlil Gibran
"أنا أنظر إلى العلو دائمًا كي أرى النور ولا أرى خيالي، وهذه حكمة لم يتعلمها الإنسان بعد." -Kahlil Gibran
"And when one of you falls down he falls for those behind him, a caution against the stumbling stone. Aye, and he falls for those ahead of him, who, though faster and surer of foot, yet removed not the stumbling stone." -Kahlil Gibran
"يأتي المساء فتضم الزهرة أوراقها وتنام معانقة شوقها، وعندما يأتي الصباح تفتح شفتيها لاقتبال قبلة الشمس، فحياة الأزهار شوق ووصال،" -Kahlil Gibran
"Poetry is wisdom that enchants the heart.Wisdom is poetry that sings in the mind.If we could enchant man's heart and at the same time sing in his mind,Then in truth he would live in the shadow of God." -Kahlil Gibran
"Keyakinan merupakan suatu pengetahuan di dalam hati, jauh tak terjangkau oleh bukti." -Kahlil Gibran
"And let your best be for your friend. If he must know the ebb of your tide, let him know its flood also." -Kahlil Gibran
"Much of your pain is self chosen." -Kahlil Gibran
"Tankens oppgave er å organisere og rydde. Dette er en viktig oppgave, som er nødvendig for våre sosiale liv, men den har ingen plass i hjertets og sjelens liv. ""Hvis vi skulle krangle etter dette, må vi ikke gå hver vår vei"" [...] Tanken kan si dette, selv om den er opphavet til all krangel, men den kan ikke si ett ord om kjærlighet. Heller ikke kan den måle sjelen i ord, eller veie hjertet etter sin logikk." -Kahlil Gibran
"تتبخّر مياه البحر وتتصاعد ثمّ تجتمع وتصير غيمة وتسير فوق التلال والأودية حتّى إذا ما لاقت نسيمات لطيفة تساقطت باكية نحو الحقول وانضمّت إلى الجداول ورجعت إلى البحر موطنها. حياة الغيوم فراق ولقاء، دمعة وابتسامة. كذا النفس تنفصل عن الروح العام وتسير في عالم المادّة وتمرّ كغيمة فوق جبال الأحزان وسهول الأفراح فتلتقي بنسيمات الموت فترجع إلى حيث كانت: إلى بحر المحبّة والجمال، إلى الله..." -Kahlil Gibran
"i sentimenti profondi e infiniti perdono qualche aspetto del loro significato più vero quando vengono circoscritti dai limiti delle parole." -Kahlil Gibran
"Um i strast vaše su kormilo i jedro vaše pomorske duše. Ako vam se potrga kormilo ili jedro, more će vas nositi, predati valovima na milost i nemilost ili ćete nepokretni čekati na pučini. Ako razum sam upravlja, sputava vam polet, a ako je strast prepuštena samoj sebi, ona je plamen koji gori do samouništenja." -Kahlil Gibran
"The sorrowful spirit finds rest when united with a similar one. They join affectionately, as a stranger is cheered when he sees another stranger in a strange land. Hearts that are united through the medium of sorrow will not be separated by the glory of happiness. Love that is cleansed by tears will remain externally pure and beautiful." -Kahlil Gibran
"For to be idle is to become a stranger unto the seasons, and to step out of life's procession, that marches in majesty and proud submission towards the infinite." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your children are not your children. They are the sons and daughters of Life's longing for itself. They come through you but not from you, And though they are with you yet they belong not to you. You may give them your love but not your thoughts, For they have their own thoughts. You may house their bodies but not their souls, For their souls dwell in the house of tomorrow, which you cannot visit, not even in your dreams. You may strive to be like them, but seek not to make them like you. For life goes not backward nor tarries with yesterday." -Kahlil Gibran
"تعالَ يا موت وأنقذني، فالأرض التي تخنق أشواكها أزهارها لا تصلح للسكن، هلم وخلصني من أيام تخلع الحب عن كرسي مجده وتقيم الشرف العالي مكانه، خلصني يا موت فالأبدية أجدر ببقاء المحبِّين من هذا العالم، هناك أنتظر حبيبتي، وهناك أجتمع بها" -Kahlil Gibran
"A noontide have you been in our twilight, and your youth has given us dreams to dream." -Kahlil Gibran
"For life goes not backward nor tarries with yesterday. You are the bows from which your children as living arrows are sent forth." -Kahlil Gibran
"والمرء إن لم تحبل به الكآبة ويتمحّض به اليأس، وتضعه المحبة في مهد الأحلام؛ تظل حياته كصفحة خالية بيضاء في كتاب الكيان." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your joy is your sorrow unmasked. The deeper that sorrow carves into your being, the more joy you can contain. Is not the cup that holds your wine the very cup that was burned in the potter's oven?" -Kahlil Gibran
"لا ليست الحياة بسطوحها بل بخفاياها، ولا المرئيَّات بقشورها بل بلبابها، ولا الناس بوجوههم بل بقلوبهم." -Kahlil Gibran
"«علمهم حفر القبور، واعط كل واحدٍ رَفْشًا، ثم دعهم وشأنهم»." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن المرأة من الأمة بمنزلة الشعاع من السراج، وهل يكون شعاع السراج ضئيلًا إذا لم يكن زيته شحيحًا؟ •••" -Kahlil Gibran
"The philosopher's soul dwells in his head, the poet's soul is in the heart; the singer's soul lingers about his throat, but the soul of the dancer abides in all her body." -Kahlil Gibran
"These things he said in words. But much in his heart remained unsaid. For he himself could not speak his deeper secret." -Kahlil Gibran
"سافر ولا تخبر أحداً، عش قصة حب صادقة ولا تخبر أحداً ، عش سعيداً ولا تخبر أحداً .. الناس يفسدون الأشياء الجميلة *" -Kahlil Gibran
"let there be spaces in your togetherness and let the winds of the heavens dance between you. Love one another but make not a bond of love: let it rather be a moving sea between the shores of your souls." -Kahlil Gibran
"•	ليست حقيقة غيرك فيما يُبديه لك، بل فيما لا يستطيع أن يبديه لك، فأنت إذا أردت أن تدرك كنهه، فلا تُصغِ إلى ما يقول بل إلى ما لا يقول. ~رمل و زبد" -Kahlil Gibran
"و همانگونه که یکایک شما در دانش خداوند تنها هستید ، یکایک شما در دانش خود از خداوند و در دریافت خود از زمین تنها خواهید بود" -Kahlil Gibran
"Your soul is oftentimes a battlefield, upon which your reason and your judgment wage war against your passion and your appetite. Would that I could be the peacemaker in your soul, that I might turn the discord and the rivalry of your elements into oneness and melody. But how shall I, unless you yourselves be also the peacemakers, nay, the lovers of all your elements? Your reason and your passion are the rudder and the sails of your seafaring soul. If either your sails or your rudder be broken, you can but toss and drift, or else be held at a standstill in mid-seas. For reason, ruling alone, is a force confining; and passion, unattended, is a flame that burns to its own destruction. Therefore let your soul exalt your reason to the height of passion, that it may sing; And let it direct your passion with reason, that your passion may live through its own daily resurrection, and like the phoenix rise above its own ashes." -Kahlil Gibran
"یک انسان می تواند آزاد باشد، بی بزرگ بودن، اما هیچ انسانی نمی تواند بزرگ باشد، بی آزاد بودن." -Kahlil Gibran
"I looked upon slumbering Nature, and with deep reflection discovered the reality of a vast and infinite thing—something no power could demand, influence acquire, nor riches purchase. Nor could it be effaced by the tears of time or deadened by sorrow; a thing which cannot be discovered by the blue lakes of Switzerland or the beautiful edifices of Italy.  It is something that gathers strength with patience, grows despite obstacles, warms in winter, flourishes in spring, casts a breeze in summer, and bears fruit in autumn—I found Love." -Kahlil Gibran
"دخل ابن العباس على علي بن أبي طالب خارج الكوفة وهو يقطب نعله، فقال له: ما قيمة هذا النعل؟ فقال ابن العباس: لا قيمة له. فقال له علي: لهي أحب إليَّ من إمرتكم، إلا أن أقيم حقًّا أو أدفع باطلًا." -Kahlil Gibran
"A Lover's Call XXVIIWhere are you, my beloved? Are you in that littleParadise, watering the flowers who look upon youAs infants look upon the breast of their mothers?Or are you in your chamber where the shrine ofVirtue has been placed in your honor, and uponWhich you offer my heart and soul as sacrifice?Or amongst the books, seeking human knowledge,While you are replete with heavenly wisdom?Oh companion of my soul, where are you? Are youPraying in the temple? Or calling Nature in theField, haven of your dreams?Are you in the huts of the poor, consoling theBroken-hearted with the sweetness of your soul, andFilling their hands with your bounty?You are God's spirit everywhere;You are stronger than the ages.Do you have memory of the day we met, when the halo ofYou spirit surrounded us, and the Angels of LoveFloated about, singing the praise of the soul's deed?Do you recollect our sitting in the shade of theBranches, sheltering ourselves from Humanity, as the ribsProtect the divine secret of the heart from injury?Remember you the trails and forest we walked, with handsJoined, and our heads leaning against each other, as ifWe were hiding ourselves within ourselves?Recall you the hour I bade you farewell,And the Maritime kiss you placed on my lips?That kiss taught me that joining of lips in LoveReveals heavenly secrets which the tongue cannot utter!That kiss was introduction to a great sigh,Like the Almighty's breath that turned earth into man.That sigh led my way into the spiritual world,Announcing the glory of my soul; and thereIt shall perpetuate until again we meet.I remember when you kissed me and kissed me,With tears coursing your cheeks, and you said,""Earthly bodies must often separate for earthly purpose,And must live apart impelled by worldly intent.""But the spirit remains joined safely in the hands ofLove, until death arrives and takes joined souls to God.""Go, my beloved; Love has chosen you her delegate;Over her, for she is Beauty who offers to her followerThe cup of the sweetness of life.As for my own empty arms, your love shall remain myComforting groom; your memory, my Eternal wedding.""Where are you now, my other self? Are you awake inThe silence of the night? Let the clean breeze conveyTo you my heart's every beat and affection.Are you fondling my face in your memory? That imageIs no longer my own, for Sorrow has dropped hisShadow on my happy countenance of the past.Sobs have withered my eyes which reflected your beautyAnd dried my lips which you sweetened with kisses.Where are you, my beloved? Do you hear my weepingFrom beyond the ocean? Do you understand my need?Do you know the greatness of my patience?Is there any spirit in the air capable of conveyingTo you the breath of this dying youth? Is there anySecret communication between angels that will carry toYou my complaint?Where are you, my beautiful star? The obscurity of lifeHas cast me upon its bosom; sorrow has conquered me.Sail your smile into the air; it will reach and enliven me!Breathe your fragrance into the air; it will sustain me!Where are you, me beloved?Oh, how great is Love!And how little am I!" -Kahlil Gibran
"Your blood and my blood is naught but the sap that feeds the tree of heaven." -Kahlil Gibran
"You may give them your love but not your thoughts, For they have their own thoughts. You may house their bodies but not their souls," -Kahlil Gibran
"en a-t-il toujours été de l'amour, il ne découvre sa véritable profondeur qu'à l'heure de la séparation." -Kahlil Gibran
"Love humiliated in its nakedness is greater than love that seeks triumph in disguise." -Kahlil Gibran
"Those whom love has not given wings cannot fly the cloud of appearances to see the magic world in which Selma`s spirit and mine existed together in that sorrowfully happy hour. Those whom Love has not chosen as followers do not hear when Love calls. This story is not for them. Even if they should comprehend these pages, they would not be able to grasp the shadowy meanings which are not clothed in words and do not reside on paper, but what human being is he who has never sipped the wine from the cup of love, and what spirit is it that has never stood reverently before that lighted altar in the temple whose pavement is the hearts of men and women and whose ceiling is the secret canopy of dreams? What flower is that on whose leaves the dawn has never poured a drop of dew; what streamlet is that which lost its course without going to the sea?" -Kahlil Gibran
"No olvidéis que el pudor no es protección contra los ojos del impuro. Y cuando el impuro ya no exista, ¿qué será el pudor sino los grillos y la impureza de la mente?." -Kahlil Gibran
"I know faces, because I look through the fabric my own eye weaves, and behold the reality beneath." -Kahlil Gibran
"Vaša je radost vaša tuga bez krinke." -Kahlil Gibran
"the vision of one man lends not its wings to another man." -Kahlil Gibran
"While the Western world has been seeking practical solutions to its problems through science, the various peoples comprising the Arabic-speaking world have preferred to look at life in poetic and philosophical terms." -Kahlil Gibran
"«إذا فقد المرء صديقًا عزيزًا والتفتَ حوله يجد الأصدقاء الكثيرين فيتصبَّر ويتعزَّى، وإذا خسر الإنسان مالًا وفكر قليلًا رأى النشاط الذي أتى بالمال سيأتي بمثله فينسى ويسلو، ولكن إذا أضاع الرجل راحة قلبه فأين يجدها؟!" -Kahlil Gibran
"But my dear readers, don't' you think that such a woman is like a nation that is oppressed by priests and rulers? Don't you believe that thwarted love which leads a woman to the grave is like the despair which pervades the people of the earth? A woman is to a nation as light is to a lamp. Will not the light be dim if the oil in the lamp is low?" -Kahlil Gibran
"Ta douleur marque l'éclatement de la coquille qui enferme ta compréhension." -Kahlil Gibran
"...Jika cinta mengajakmu, ikutilah dia.Meskipun jalannya sulit dan curam.Dan, Ketika sayap-sayapnya merangkulmu menyerahlah padanya.Meskipun pedang yang terselip di antara ujung-ujung sayapnya mungkin melukaimu.Dan, Kalau ia bicara kepadamu percayalah saja.Meskipun suaranya mungkin membuyarkan mimpi-mimpimu bagaikan angin utara yang mengerontangkan taman.(Terjemahan Sapardi Djoko Damono, Penerbit Bentang)" -Kahlil Gibran
"ولكنّ الندم يُظلم الفكر ولا يؤدّبه." -Kahlil Gibran
"ROSTROS He visto un rostro con mil semblantes, y un rostro que tenía sólo un semblante, como si estuviera contenido en un molde inmutable.He visto un rostro cuyo brillo podía ver a través de la fealdad que lo cubría, y un rostro cuyo brillo tuve que apartar, para ver cuán hermoso era.He visto un viejo rostro lleno de arrugas de la nada, y un rostro lozano en el que estaban grabadas todas las cosas. Conozco todos los rostros, porque los veo a través de la urdimbre que mis ojos van tejiendo, y miro la realidad que está detrás del tejido." -Kahlil Gibran
"يا خيبتي، يا خيبة! يا وحدتي وانفرادي، إنك لأعز لدي من ألف انتصار، وأحلى على قلبي من كل أمجاد الأقطار. يا خيبتي، يا خيبة! يا معرفتي لنفسي واحتقاري لذاتي، بك أعرف أنني لا أزال فتيًّا سريع الخطى، فلا تغريني أكاليل الغار الذابلة الفانية، بك قد حظيت بوحدتي وانفرادي، وتذوقت لذة فراري واحتقاري." -Kahlil Gibran
"سيدة تعسة. كانت بالأمس عمياء تسير في نور النهار، فأصبحت مبصرة تسير في ظلمة الليل، كانت جميلة بجهلها فاضلة ببساطتها قوية بضعفها، فصارت قبيحة بتفنُّنها سطحيّة بمداركها بعيدة عن القلب بمعارفها. فهل يجيء يوم يجتمع في المرأة الجمال بالمعرفة والتفنن بالفضيلة، وضعف الجسد بقوة النفس؟ أنا من القائلين إن الارتقاء الروحي سنَّة في البشر، والتقرب من الكمال شريعة بطيئة لكنها فعالة، فإذا كانت المرأة قد ارْتقت بشيء وتأخرت بشيء آخر؛ فلأن العقبات التي تُبلغنا قمة الجبل لا تخلو من مكامن اللصوص وكهوف الذئاب." -Kahlil Gibran
"Men, even if they are born free, will remain slaves of strict laws enacted by their forefathers..." -Kahlil Gibran
"أتعاند العين سهمًا ولا تُفقأ؟ أو تناضل اليد سيفًا ولا تُقطع؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"Would that you could meet teh sun and the wind with more of your skin and less of your raiment, for the breath of life is in the sunlight and the hand of life is in the wind." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your children are not your children.They are sons and daughters of Life's longing for itself.They come through you but not from you.And though they are with you yet they belong not to you.You may give them your love but not your thoughts,For they have their own thoughts.You may house their bodies but not their souls,For thir souls dwell in the house of tomorrow, which you cannot visit, not even in your dreams.You may strive to be like them, but seek not to make them like you.For life goes not backward nor tarries with yesterday.You are the bows from which your children as living arrows are sent forth.The archer sees the make upon the path of the infinite, and He bends you with His might that His arrows may go swift and far.Let your bending in the archer's hand be for gladness.For even as He loves the arrow that flies, so He also loves the bow that is stable." -Kahlil Gibran
"The real in us is silent: the acquired is talkative." -Kahlil Gibran
"You have been told that, even like a chain, you are as weak as your weakest link. This is but half the truth. You are also as strong as your strongest link." -Kahlil Gibran
"وأصحاب النبوغ تعساء، مهما تسامت أرواحهم تظلُّ مكتنفة بغلاف من الدموع." -Kahlil Gibran
"and in your weariness you echo what was said by the weary." -Kahlil Gibran
"إن ظمأ الروح أعذب من ارتواء المادة، وخوف النفس أحب من طمأنينة الجسد" -Kahlil Gibran
"The House of Fortune         My wearied heart bade me farewell and left for the House of Fortune. As he reached that holy city which the soul had blessed and worshipped, he commenced wondering, for he could not find what he had always imagined would be there. The city was empty of power, money, and authority.  And my heart spoke to the daughter of Love saying, 'Oh Love, where can I find Contentment? I heard that she had come here to join you.'  And the daughter of Love responded, 'Contentment has already gone to preach her gospel in the city, where greed and corruption are paramount; we are not in need of her.'  Fortune craves not Contentment, for it is an earthly hope, and its desires are embraced by union with objects, while Contentment is naught but heartfelt.  The eternal soul is never contented; it ever seeks exaltation. Then my heart looked upon Life of Beauty and said: 'Thou art all knowledge; enlighten me as to the mystery of Woman.' And he answered, 'Oh human heart, woman is your own reflection, and whatever you are, she is; wherever you live, she lives; she is like religion if not interpreted by the ignorant, and like a moon, if not veiled with clouds, and like a breeze, if not poisoned with impurities.'  And my heart walked toward Knowledge, the daughter of Love and Beauty, and said, 'Bestow upon me wisdom, that I might share it with the people.' And she responded, 'Say not wisdom, but rather fortune, for real fortune comes not from outside, but begins in the Holy of Holies of life. Share of thyself with the people.' " -Kahlil Gibran
"you would watch with serenity through the winters of your grief." -Kahlil Gibran
"And what is word knowledge but a shadow of wordless knowledge?" -Kahlil Gibran
"Voi parlate quando cessate di essere in pace coi vostri pensieri." -Kahlil Gibran
"ومن لا يشاهد الملائكة والشياطين في محاسن الحياة ومكروهاتها يظل قلبه بعيدًا عن المعرفة ونفسه فارغة من العواطف." -Kahlil Gibran
"The envious praises me unknowingly." -Kahlil Gibran
"Bir harp mıyım ben,kadir olanın elini dokundurabileceği;bir ney miyim yoksa,nefesini üfleyebileceği ?" -Kahlil Gibran
"Y permaneced juntos, mas no demasiado juntos: Porque los pilares sostienen el templo, pero están separados. Y ni el roble ni el ciprés crecen el uno a la sombra del otro.»" -Kahlil Gibran
"I am mist, I am mist that cloaks things but never unties them. I am mist unchanged into rain water.I am mist and mist is my loneliness and my being alone, and in this, is my hunger and my thirst.My misfortune, however, is that this mist is my reality, and that it longs to meet with another mist in the sky, longs to hear the words: ""You are not alone, there are two of us, I know who you are."" Tell me, Tell me , my friends, is there anyone in this world who would be able or willing to say to me I am another mist, o mist, so let us cloack the mountains and the valleys, let us wander among and over the trees, let us cover the high rocks, let us together penetrate the heart and the pores of all creation and let us roam through those faraway places, impregnable and undiscovered." -Kahlil Gibran
"أجل، هذا هو العالم الكامل الذي بلغ أوجه، عالم الغرائب والمعجزات، بل هو أنضج ثمرة في جنان الله وأسمى عالم بين عوالمه، ولكن لِمَ أنا ها هنا يا رب! لِمَ أنا ها هنا، وأنا ثمرة عجراء ٧ لم تنل بعد شهوتها من النماء، وعاصفة صماء هوجاء لا شرقًا تبتغي ولا غربًا، وذرة هائمة تائهة من كوكب محترق ثائر؟ لم أنا ها هنا؟ لم أنا ها هنا، يا إله النفوس الضائعة،" -Kahlil Gibran
"My comrades and my beloved, be bold and not meek; be spacious and not confined; and until my final hour and yours be indeed your greater self." -Kahlil Gibran
"My friend, it was but a song of love out of a poet's heart, sung by every man to every woman." -Kahlil Gibran
"سوف يجيء يوم أهرب فيه إلى الشرق . إن شوقي إلى وطني يكاد يذيبني ولولا هذا القفص الذي حبكت قضبانه بيدي، لاعتليت متن أول سفينة سائرة شرقاً . ولكن أي رجل يستطيع أن يترك بناءً صرف عمره بنحت حجارته وصفّها ؟ حتى وإن كان ذلك البناء سجناً له فهو لا يقدر أو لا يريد أن يتخلص منه في يوم واحد" -Kahlil Gibran
"Trust the dreams, for in them is hidden the gate to eternity." -Kahlil Gibran
"The mission of art is to bring out the unfamiliar from the most familiar." -Kahlil Gibran
"سألني قائلا: ""ما دينك؟""قلت: ""أؤمن بالله وأكرم أنبياءه وأحب الفضيلة ولي رجاء بالآخرة"" فقال: ""هذه ألفاظ رتبتها الأجيال الغابرة ثم وضعها الاقتباس بين شفتيك أما الحقيقة المجردة فهي أنك لا تؤمن بغير نفسك ولا تكرم سواها ولا تهوى غير أميالها ولا رجاء لك إلا بخلودها، منذ البدء والإنسان يعبد نفسه ولكنه يلقبها بأسماء مختلفة باختلاف أمياله فتارة يدعوها البعل وطورا المشتري وأخرى الله" -Kahlil Gibran
"Del amor Y Almitra dijo entonces: «Háblanos del amor»." -Kahlil Gibran
"No, no, the moments which united us are greater than centuries, and the light that illuminated our spirits is stronger than the dark; and if the tempest separates us on this rough ocean, the waves will unite us on the calm shore; and if this life kills us, death will unite us." -Kahlil Gibran
"An old man likes to return in memory to the days of his youth like a stranger who longs to go back to his own country. He delights to tell stories of the past like a poet who takes pleasure in reciting his best poem. He lives spiritually in the past because the present passes swiftly, and the future seems to him an approach to the oblivion of the grave. An hour full of old memories passed like the shadows of the trees over the grass" -Kahlil Gibran
"And a poet said, Speak to us of Beauty. And he answered: Where shall you seek beauty, and how shall you find her unless she herself be your way and your guide? And how shall you speak of her except she be the weaver of your speech? The aggrieved and the injured say, 'Beauty is kind and gentle. 'Like a young mother half-shy of her own glory she walks among us.' And the passionate say, 'Nay, beauty is a thing of might and dread. 'Like the tempest she shakes the earth beneath us and the sky above us.' The tired and the weary say, 'Beauty is of soft whisperings. 'She speaks in our spirit. 'Her voice yields to our silences like a faint light that quivers in fear of the shadow.' But the restless say, 'We have heard her shouting among the mountains, 'And with her cries came the sound of hoofs, and the beating of wings and the roaring of lions.' At night the watchmen of the city say, 'Beauty shall rise with the dawn from the east.' And at noontide the toilers and the wayfarers say, 'We have seen her leaning over the earth from the windows of the sunset.' In winter say the snow-bound, 'She shall come with the spring leaping upon the hills.' And in the summer heat the reapers say, 'We have seen her dancing with the autumn leaves, and we saw a drift of snow in her hair.' All these things have you said of beauty, Yet in truth you spoke not of her but of needs unsatisfied, And beauty is not a need but an ecstasy. It is not a mouth thirsting nor an empty hand stretched forth, But rather a heart inflamed and a soul enchanted. It is not the image you would see nor the song you would hear, But rather an image you see though you close your eyes and a song you hear though you shut your ears. It is not the sap within the furrowed bark, nor a wing attached to a claw, But rather a garden forever in bloom and a flock of angels forever in flight. People of Orphalese, beauty is life when life unveils her holy face. But you are life and you are the veil. Beauty is eternity gazing at itself in a mirror. But you are eternity and you are the mirror." -Kahlil Gibran
"من حسنات الناس أنهم لا يستطيعون إخفاء سيئاتهم طويلًا." -Kahlil Gibran
"قيل لبعض العرب: من سيدكم؟ قالوا: فلان. قيل: بِمَ سادكم؟ قالوا: احتجنا إلى علمه واستغنى عن دنيانا." -Kahlil Gibran
"Wenn ihr froh seid, schaut tief in eure Herzen, und ihr werdet entdecken, dass der Grund eures vergangenen Leides nun der Grund eurer Freude ist.Und wenn ihr traurig seid, schaut wieder in euer Herz, und ihr werdet sehen, dass ihr in Wahrheit darüber weint, was zuvor eure Freude ausmachte." -Kahlil Gibran
"That which seems most feeble and bewildered in you is the strongest and most determined.Is it not your breath that has erected and hardened the structure of your bones?And is it not a dream which none of you re member having dreamt, that built your city and fashioned all there is in it?Could you but see the tides of that breath you would cease to see all else,And if you could hear the whispering of the dream you would hear no other sound.But you do not see, nor do you hear, and it is well." -Kahlil Gibran
"إذا حجب الظلام الأشجار والرياحين عن العين، فالظلام لا يحجب الحب عن النفس." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your joy is your sorrow unmasked. When you are joyous, look deep into your heart and you shall find it is only that which has given you sorrow that is giving you joy. When you are sorrowful look again in your heart, and you shall see that in truth you are weeping for that which has been your delight." -Kahlil Gibran
"For to be idle is to become a stranger unto the seasons, and to step out of life's procession" -Kahlil Gibran
"When love becomes vast, love becomes wordless.And when memory is overladen, it seeks the silent deep." -Kahlil Gibran
"Vous serez libre en vérité non pas quand vous jours seront sans tourments et vos nuits sans un désir ou un chagrin, Mais davantage quand ces choses étrangleront votre vie, et que pourtant vous vous élèverez au-dessus d'elles, nu et sans entraves." -Kahlil Gibran
"I had a second birth when my soul and my body loved one another and were married." -Kahlil Gibran
"فسلمى كرامة هي حواء هذا القلب المملوء بالأسرار والعجائب، وهي التي أفهمته كُنْهَ هذا الوجود، وأوقفته كالمرآة أمام هذه الأشباح." -Kahlil Gibran
"Sorrow is too great to exist in small hearts." -Kahlil Gibran
"هكذا انقضت تلك الساعة التي جمعتني بسلمى لأول مرة، وهكذا شاءت السماء وأعتقتني على حين غفلة من عبودية الحيرة والحداثة لتسيرني حرًّا في موكب المحبة، فالمحبة هي الحرية الوحيدة في هذا العالم؛ لأنها ترفع النفس إلى مقام سامٍ لا تبلغه شرائع البشر وتقاليدهم، ولا تسوده نواميس الطبيعة وأحكامها." -Kahlil Gibran
"Είναι μέσα σας ένα φλογερό πνεύμα που δυναμώνει συνεχώς από τον εαυτό του,ενώ εσείς περιφρονείτε την επέκτασή του και θρηνείτε τις ημέρες που φεύγουν.Μέσα στα σώματα που φοβούνται το μνήμα, αναζητά η ζωή τη ζωή." -Kahlil Gibran
"Some of you say 'Joy is greater than sorrow,' and others say, 'Nay, sorrow is the greater.""But I say unto you, they are inseparable.Together they come, and when one sits alone with you at your board, remember that the other is asleep upon your bed." -Kahlil Gibran
"haced que vuestra alma eleve a vuestra razón a la altura de la pasión, para que cante." -Kahlil Gibran
"كذا تتغير الأشياء أمام أعيننا بتغيُّر عواطفنا، وهكذا نتوهم الأشياء متَّشِحة بالسحر والجمال عندما لا يكون السحر والجمال إلا في نفوسنا." -Kahlil Gibran
"...،و لكن أليست الوقاحة بخشونتها أفضل من الخيانة بنعومتها؟..." -Kahlil Gibran
"يحكمون على النفوس من مآتي الأجساد ويقيسون الروح بمقاييس المادة.»" -Kahlil Gibran
"Your joy is your sorrow unmasked. And the selfsame well from which your laughter rises was oftentimes filled with your tears. And how else can it be? The deeper that sorrow carves into your being, the more joy you can contain." -Kahlil Gibran
"اه صادرة من افئدة هيجت فيها الالحان عواطف مكنونة فلذ لها التاؤه. اه تتنفسها قلوب حرى انعشتها الذكرى. اه كلمة صغيرة لكنها حديث طويل.اه ما قالها سامع كلام الملحن ولا ناظر وجهه بل تنهدها من اعار اذنا لنشيد نسج من مقاطع انفاس متقطعة.انفاس حية مثلت له فصلا من رواية حياته الماضية أو فشت سرا اكنته اضلعه." -Kahlil Gibran
"Derken, müritlerden biri ""Yalnızım Üstat,"" dedi, ""saatlerin nalları göğsümü ezip duruyor.""El Mustafa ayağa kalktı ve ortalarında durdu; şiddetli bir rüzgârın sesine benzeyen bir sesle konuştu: ""Yalnız! Ne var ki bunda? Yalnız geldin ve yalnız kaybolacaksın sis içinde. İç öyleyse kadehinden yalnız ve sessizce. Güz günleri başka dudaklara başka kadehler verdi, acı ve tatlı şarap doldurdu kadehlerine, tıpkı senin kadehini doldurduğu gibi.İç şarabını yalnız, kanının ve gözyaşlarının tadında olsa da; sana susuzluğu bağışladığı için hayata şükret. Çünkü susuzluk olmasa, yüreğin kurumuş bir denizin kıyısı olurdu ancak, şarkıdan ve meddücezirden yoksun.İç şarabını yalnız, cezbe ve çoşkuyla iç!Yukarı, başının üstüne kaldır kadehini, sonuna kadar, senin gibi yalnız içenlerin şerefine iç!Bir gün, insanlarla arkadaşlığı aradım ve onların şölen sofralarına oturdum, yavaş yavaş içtim onlarla; ama şarapları başımı döndürmedi, bağrımı da yakmadı. Sadece ayaklarıma indi. Bilgeliğim susuz, kalbim kilitli ve mühürlü kaldı. Yalnız ayaklarım onların bulanık fikirleriyle arkadaş oldu. Ve başka insanların arkadaşlığını aradım bir daha, ne de sofralarında onlarla şarap içtim.Bunun için sana diyorum, saatlerin nalları göğsünü ezip dursa da, ne önemi var! Hüznünün kadehinden yalnız içmen iyidir, neşenin kadehinden de yalnız içeceksin." -Kahlil Gibran
"When you part from your friend, you grieve not; For that which you love most in him may be clearer in his absence," -Kahlil Gibran
"when you can no longer dwell in the solitude of your heart you live in your lips, and sound is a diversion and a pastime." -Kahlil Gibran
"Women's influence is to be found somewhere behind all the creations of man throughout the centuries. I do not state this as a theory. For me it is a psychological fact, its manifestations being perfectly palpable throughout history." -Kahlil Gibran
"حقيقة واحدة، وهي أن الإخلاص يجعل جميع الأعمال حسنة وشريفة" -Kahlil Gibran
"You pray in your distress and in your need;" -Kahlil Gibran
"Amatevi l'un l'altro, ma non fatene una prigione d'amore." -Kahlil Gibran
"Tek kada se napijete iz rijeke tišine, doista ćete pjevati. Tek kada stignete na vrhunac, počet ćete se penjati na brdo. A tek kada zemlja zatraži vaše udove, istinski ćete zaplesati." -Kahlil Gibran
"وكانت سلمى كرامة المرأة الأولى التي أيقظت روحي بمحاسنها، ومشت أمامي إلى جنة العواطف العلوية، حيث تمر الأيام كالأحلام وتنقضي الليالي كالأعراس." -Kahlil Gibran
"The Fox  A fox looked at his shadow at sunrise and said, 'I will have a camel for lunch today.' And all morning he went about looking for camels. But at noon he saw his shadow again—and he said, 'A mouse will do." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your pain is the breaking of the shell that encloses your understanding. Even as the stone of the fruit must break, that its heart may stand in the sun, so must you know pain. And could you keep your heart in wonder at the daily miracles of your life, your pain would not seem less wondrous than your joy; And you would accept the seasons of your heart, even as you have always accepted the seasons that pass over your fields. And you would watch with serenity through the winters of your grief. Much of your pain is self-chosen. It is the bitter potion by which the physician within you heals your sick self. Therefore trust the physician, and drink his remedy in silence and tranquillity: For his hand, though heavy and hard, is guided by the tender hand of the Unseen, And the cup he brings, though it burn your lips, has been fashioned of the clay which the Potter has moistened with His own sacred tears." -Kahlil Gibran
"beauty is life when life unveils her holy face." -Kahlil Gibran
"How shall I go in peace and without sorrow? Nay, not without a wound in the spirit shall I leave this city." -Kahlil Gibran
"But if in your fear you would seek only love's peace and love's pleasure, Then it is better for you that you cover your nakedness and pass out of love's threshing-floor, Into the seasonless world where you shall laugh, but not all of your laughter, and weep, but not all of your tears. Love gives naught but itself and takes naught but from itself. Love possesses not nor would it be possessed; For love is sufficient unto love." -Kahlil Gibran
"When love beckons to you, follow him,Though his ways are hard and steep.And when his wings enfold you yield to him,Though the sword hidden among his pinions may wound you." -Kahlil Gibran
"Tell me, have you these in your houses? Or have you only comfort, and the lust for comfort, that stealthy thing that enters the house a guest, and then becomes a host, and then a master?" -Kahlil Gibran
"Your soul is oftentimes a battlefield, upon which your reason and your judgment wage war against your passion and your appetite.Would that I could be the peacemaker in your soul, that I might turn the discord and the rivalry of your elements into oneness and melody.But how shall I, unless you yourselves be also the peacemakers, nay, the lovers of all your elements?Your reason and your passion are the rudder and the sails of your seafaring soul.If either your sails or your rudder be broken, you can but toss and drift, or else be held at a standstill in mid-seas.For reason, ruling alone, is a force confining; and passion, unattended, is a flame that burns to its own destruction.Therefore let your soul exalt your reason to the height of passion, that it may sing;And let it direct your passion with reason, that your passion may live through its own daily resurrection, and like the phoenix rise above its own ashes.I would have you consider your judgment and your appetite even as you would two loved guests in your house.Surely you would not honour one guest above the other; for he who is more mindful of one loses the love and the faith of both.Among the hills, when you sit in the cool shade of the white poplars, sharing the peace and serenity of distant fields and meadows - then let your heart say in silence, ""God rests in reason.""And when the storm comes, and the mighty wind shakes the forest, and thunder and lightning proclaim the majesty of the sky, - then let your heart say in awe, ""God moves in passion.""And since you are a breath in God's sphere, and a leaf in God's forest, you too should rest in reason and move in passion." -Kahlil Gibran
"My being away from the city, living a simple, quiet, and orderly life near the sea and the woods, has stilled the palpitations of my heart." -Kahlil Gibran
"فالحب قد أعتق لساني فتكلمتُ، ومزَّق أجفاني فبكيتُ، وفتح حنجرتي فتنهدتُ وشكوتُ." -Kahlil Gibran
"Le soleil n'est pour eux qu'un fabricant d'ombres." -Kahlil Gibran
"Vuestro dolor es la ruptura de la celda que encierra vuestra comprensión. Así como la semilla de la fruta debe romperse para que su corazón se muestre al sol, así debéis vosotros conocer el dolor." -Kahlil Gibran
"أليس على وجه البسيطة قُرْنَةٌ خالية من شقشقة اللسان وبلبلة الألسنة، حيث الكلام لا يباع ولا يشرى، ولا يعطى ولا يؤخذ؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"كل ما يفعله الإنسان سرًّا في ظلمة الليل يظهره الإنسان علنًا في نور النهار." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your pain is the breaking of the shell that enclosed your understanding." -Kahlil Gibran
"One hour devoted to mourning and lamenting theStolen equality of the weak is nobler than aCentury filled with greed and usurpation." -Kahlil Gibran
"have you only comfort, and the lust for comfort, that stealthy thing that enters the house a guest, and then becomes a host, and then a master?" -Kahlil Gibran
"Say not, ‘I have found the truth,' but rather, ‘I have found a truth." -Kahlil Gibran
"And you receivers — and you are all receivers — assume no weight of gratitude, lest you lay a yoke upon yourself and upon him who gives. Rather rise together with the giver on his gifts as on wings; For to be overmindful of your debt is to doubt his generosity who has the free-hearted earth for mother, and God for father." -Kahlil Gibran
"And so is life. Played by the nights on the stage of destiny as a tragedy; sung by the days as a hymn. And in the end guarded by Eternity as a jewel." -Kahlil Gibran
"والحبّ يجمعكم إليه كما يجمع الحاصد السنابل، ثمّ يدرسكم ليعرِّيَـكم، ثم يغربلكم لينقِّيكم من أَحساككم، ثمّ يطحنكم طحنًا، ثمّ يعجنكم عجنًا، ومن بعدها يتعهّدكم بناره المقدّسة كيما يجعل منكم خبزًا مقدَّسًا لوليمة الله السرِّية المقدَّسة." -Kahlil Gibran
"كانت المرأة بالأمس خادمة سعيدة فصارت اليوم سيدة تعسة. كانت بالأمس عمياء تسير في نور النهار، فأصبحت مبصرة تسير في ظلمة الليل، كانت جميلة بجهلها فاضلة ببساطتها قوية بضعفها، فصارت قبيحة بتفنُّنها سطحيّة بمداركها بعيدة عن القلب بمعارفها. فهل يجيء يوم يجتمع في المرأة الجمال بالمعرفة والتفنن بالفضيلة، وضعف الجسد بقوة النفس؟ أنا من القائلين إن الارتقاء الروحي سنَّة في البشر، والتقرب من الكمال شريعة بطيئة لكنها فعالة، فإذا كانت المرأة قد ارْتقت بشيء وتأخرت بشيء آخر؛ فلأن العقبات التي تُبلغنا قمة الجبل لا تخلو من مكامن اللصوص وكهوف الذئاب." -Kahlil Gibran
"A voice cannot carry the tongue and the lips that gave it wings. Alone must it seek the ether.And alone and without his nest shall the eagle fly across the sun." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your children are not your children. They are sons and daughters of the Life's longing for itself. They come through you but not from you. You may give them your love but not your thoughts. For they have their own thoughts." -Kahlil Gibran
"let today embrace the past with remembrance and the future with longing." -Kahlil Gibran
"أيقنت لمَّا نظرت إلى عينيك أن هذه الحياة فردوس بابه القلب البشري" -Kahlil Gibran
"وفي لبنان — ذلك الجبل الغني بنور الشمس الفقير إلى نور المعرفة — قد اتحد الشريف والكاهن على الفقير الضعيف الذي يحرث الأرض ويستغلها كيما يحمي جسده من سيف الأول ولعنة الثاني. ابن الشرف الموروث يقف في لبنان بجانب قصره ويصرخ باللبنانين قائلًا: «قد أقامني السلطان وليًّا على أجسادكم.» والكاهن ينتصب أمام المذبح هاتفًا: «قد أقامني الله وصيًّا على أرواحكم.» أما اللبنانيون فيظلون صامتين لأن القلوب المغلغلة بالتراب لا تنكسر؛ لأن الأموات لا يبكون." -Kahlil Gibran
"But it is also the pleasure of the flower to yield its honey to the bee. For to the bee a flower is a fountain of life, And to the flower a bee is a messenger of love, And to both, bee and flower, the giving and the receiving of pleasure is a need and an ecstasy." -Kahlil Gibran
"فالمحبة هي الحرية الوحيدة في هذا العالم؛ لأنها ترفع النفس إلى مقام سامٍ لا تبلغه شرائع البشر وتقاليدهم، ولا تسوده نواميس الطبيعة وأحكامها." -Kahlil Gibran
"should my voice fade in your ears, and my love vanish in your memory, then I will come again," -Kahlil Gibran
"The timeless in you is aware of life's timelessness. That which sings and contemplates in you is still dwelling within the bounds of that first moment which scattered the stars into space. Who among you does not feel that his power to love is boundless? And is not time even as love is, undivided and placeless?" -Kahlil Gibran
"is there aught you would withhold? All you have shall some day be given;" -Kahlil Gibran
"Excerpt from ""Work"" And if you cannot workwith lovebut only with distaste,it is better that you should leaveyour work and sit atthe gate of the templeand take almsof those who work with joy.For if you bake breadwith indifference, you bakea bitter bread,that feeds but half man's hunger.And if you grudge the crushingof the grapes,your grudge distillsa poisonin the wine.And if you sing though as angels,and love not the singing, you muffle man's earsto the voices of the dayand the voicesof the night." -Kahlil Gibran
"For what is your friend that you should seek him with hours to kill? Seek hime with hours to live!" -Kahlil Gibran
"Many a time I havemade a comparison between nobility of sacrifice and happiness ofrebellion to find out which one is nobler and more beautiful; but untilnow I have distilled only one truth out of the whole matter, and thistruth is sincerity, which makes all our deeds beautiful andhonourable." -Kahlil Gibran
"ما أنبل القلب الحزين الذي لا يمنعه حزنه عن أن ينشد أغنية مع القلوب الفرحة." -Kahlil Gibran
"أيّ فتى لا يذكر الصبيَّة الأولى التي أبدلت غفلة شبيبته بيقظة هائلة بلطفها، جارحة بعذوبتها، فتَّاكة بحلاوتها؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"لا ولا الدين تظهره المعابد وتبينه الطُّقُوس والتقاليد، بل يختبئ في النفوس ويتَجَوْهر بالنِّيَّات." -Kahlil Gibran
"Ljepota je vjecnost koja sebe gleda u zrcalu. A vi ste ta vjecnost i vi ste to zrcalo." -Kahlil Gibran
"alone and without his nest shall the eagle fly across the sun." -Kahlil Gibran
": إن الله وضع في كل نفس رسولًا ليسير بنا إلى النور. ولكن، في الناس مَن يبحث عن الحياة في خارجه والحياة في داخله ولكنه لا يعلم." -Kahlil Gibran
"По правді кажучи, те, що ви називаєте свободою, є найміцнішим з цих ланцюгів, хоча кільця його виблискують на сонці і засліплюють вам очі. Що це таке, як не частки вашого «я», якими вам доведеться пожертвувати, щоб справді стати вільними?" -Kahlil Gibran
"And shall it be said that my eve was in truth my dawn?" -Kahlil Gibran
"Doista, čeznja za udobnošću ubija duševnu strast, a onda, nacerena slijedi sprovod." -Kahlil Gibran
"Cinta yang tidak diucapkan bagaikan bunga yang mekar di taman tanpa seorang pun yang melihatnya." -Kahlil Gibran
"When love beckons to you, follow him, Though his ways are hard and steep. And when his wings enfold you yield to him, Though the sword hidden among his pinions may wound you. And when he speaks to you believe in him, Though his voice may shatter your dreams as the north wind lays waste the garden. For even as love crowns you so shall he crucify you. Even as he is for your growth so is he for your pruning. Even as he ascends to your height and {16}caresses your tenderest branches that quiver in the sun, So shall he descend to your roots and shake them in their clinging to the earth." -Kahlil Gibran
"Man caught between his heart and soul is like a thin branch whipping between the north wind and the south." -Kahlil Gibran
"When you reach the heart of life you will find yourself not higher than the felon, and not lower than the prophet." -Kahlil Gibran
"I feel a gnawing hunger in my heart for the approach of the great works of art, and I have a profound longing for the eternal sayings; however, this hunger and longing come out of a great power that exists in the depth of my heart—a power that wishes to announce itself hurriedly but is unable to do so, for the time has not come, and the people who died on the day of their birth are still walking and standing as a barrier in the way of the living." -Kahlil Gibran
"For the master spirit of the earth shall not sleep peacefully upon the wind till the needs of the least of you are satisfied." -Kahlil Gibran
"And a woman who held a babe against her bosom said, Speak to us of Children. And he said: Your children are not your children. They are the sons and daughters of Life's longing for itself. They come through you but not from you, And though they are with you yet they belong not to you. You may give them your love but not your thoughts, For they have their own thoughts. You may house their bodies but not their souls, For their souls dwell in the house of tomorrow, which you cannot visit, not even in your dreams. You may strive to be like them, but seek not to make them like you. For life goes not backward nor tarries with yesterday. You are the bows from which your children as living arrows are sent forth. The archer sees the mark upon the path of the infinite, and He bends you with His might that His arrows may go swift and far. Let your bending in the archer's hand be for gladness; For even as He loves the arrow that flies, so He loves also the bow that is stable." -Kahlil Gibran
"For life goes not backward, nor tarries with yesterday" -Kahlil Gibran
"El ruiseñor se niega anidar en la jaula, para que la esclavitud no sea el destino de su cría." -Kahlil Gibran
"Defeat, my Defeat, my solitude and my aloofness;You are dearer to me than a thousand triumphs,And sweeter to my heart than all world-glory. Defeat, my Defeat, my self-knowledge and my defiance,Through you I know that I am yet young and swift of footAnd not to be trapped by withering laurels.And in you I have found alonenessAnd the joy of being shunned and scorned. Defeat, my Defeat, my shining sword and shield,In your eyes I have readThat to be enthroned is to be enslaved,And to be understood is to be leveled down,And to be grasped is but to reach one's fullnessAnd like a ripe fruit to fall and be consumed. Defeat, my Defeat, my bold companion,You shall hear my songs and my cries and my silences,And none but you shall speak to me of the beating of wings,And urging of seas,And of mountains that burn in the night,And you alone shall climb my steep and rocky soul. Defeat, my Defeat, my deathless courage,You and I shall laugh together with the storm,And together we shall dig graves for all that die in us,And we shall stand in the sun with a will,And we shall be dangerous." -Kahlil Gibran
"Your children are not your children. They are the sons and daughters of Life's longing for itself. They come through you but not from you, And though they are with you yet they belong not to you. *****" -Kahlil Gibran
"It is well to give when asked, but it is better to give unasked, through understanding;" -Kahlil Gibran
"إن النفس الكئيبة تجد راحة بالعزلة والانفراد فتهجر الناس مثلما يبتعد الغزال الجريح عن سربه ويتوارى في كهفه حتى يبرأ أو يموت." -Kahlil Gibran
"The deeper that sorrow carves into your being, the more joy you can contain.Is not the cup that holds your wine the very cup that was burned in the potter's oven?And is not the lute that soothes your spirit the very wood that was hollowed with knives?" -Kahlil Gibran
"«Nadie puede revelaros nada que no yazga aletargado en el amanecer de vuestro conocimiento." -Kahlil Gibran
"Una semilla oculta en el corazón de una manzana es un huerto invisible. Empero, si esa semilla cayese sobre una roca, su fruto jamás vería la luz." -Kahlil Gibran
"And to the open-handed the search for one who shall receive is joy greater than giving. And is there aught you would withhold? All you have shall someday be given; Therefore give now, that the season of giving may be yours and not your inheritors'." -Kahlil Gibran
"And how prosecute you him who in action is a deceiver and an oppressor, Yet who also is aggrieved and outraged?" -Kahlil Gibran
"I love you, my brother, whoever you areWhether you worship in your church,Kneel in your temple, or pray in your mosque.You and I are all children of one faith,For the diverse paths of religion areFingers of the loving hand of one Supreme BeingA hand extended to all" -Kahlil Gibran
"And if any of you would punish in the name of righteousness and lay the axe unto the evil tree, let him see to its roots;And verily he will find the roots of the good and the bad, the fruitful and the fruitless, all entwined together in the silent heart of the earth." -Kahlil Gibran
"And you would watch with serenity through the winters of your grief." -Kahlil Gibran
"ثم قالت: أتطلب مني الصبر والتجلد وفي عينيك معنى اليأس والقنوط؟ أيعطي الفقير الجائع خبزه للجائع الفقير؟ أَو يصف العليل دواءً لعليل آخر وهو أحرى بالدواء؟" -Kahlil Gibran
"Woe to the nation that receives her conquerors beating the drums. Woe to the nation that hates oppression in her sleep and accepts it in her awakening. Woe to the nation that raises that voice only behind a coffin and prides itself only in the cemetery. Woe to a nation that does not revolt until her neck is placed on the scaffold." -Kahlil Gibran
"Sadness is a well we dig inside of us only to fill with happiness." -Kahlil Gibran
"When you kill a beast say to him in your heart: 'By the same power that slays you, I too am slain; and I too shall be consumed. For the law that delivered you into my hand shall deliver me into a mightier hand. Your blood and my blood is naught but the sap that feeds the tree of heaven." -Kahlil Gibran
"We were fluttering, wandering, longing creaturesa thousand thousand years before the seaand the wind in the forest gave us words.Now,how can we express the ancient of days in uswith only the sounds of our yesterdays ?" -Kahlil Gibran
"Debe haber algo extrañamente sagrado en la sal: Está en nuestras lágrimas y en el mar." -Kahlil Gibran
"«علمهم حفر القبور، واعط كل واحدٍ" -Kahlil Gibran
"and I would not havepreferred a royal crown or a wreath of glory to that beautiful smoothhand whose fingers were twined in my hair." -Kahlil Gibran
"Trees are poems the earth writes upon the sky..." -Kahlil Gibran
"Love possessed not nor would it be possessed; for love is sufficient unto love. Love has no desire but to fulfill itself." -Kahlil Gibran
"And who are you that men should rend their bosom and unveil their pride, that you may see their worth naked and their pride unabashed?" -Kahlil Gibran
"Haré de mi alma un abrigo para tu alma, y de mi corazón una residencia para tu belleza, y de mi pecho una tumba para tus penas." -Kahlil Gibran
"when you are joyous, look deep into your heart and you shall find it's only that which has given you sorrow that that is giving you joy" -Kahlil Gibran
"بعد سكينةٍ مازجَتهَا الأحلام اللطيفة سألتها: ما هذا الجمال؟ فقد تباين الناسُ بتعريفِهِ ومعرفَتِهِ، مثلما اختلفوا بتمجيده ومحبّتِه. قالت: هو ما كان بنفسِكَ جاذبٌ إليه، هو ما تراهُ وتودّ أن تعطيَ لا أن تأخُذَ، هو ما شعرتَ عند ملقاهُ بأيدٍ ممدودةٍ من أعماقِكَ لضمّه إلى أعماقِكَ، هو ما تحسَبُهُ الأجسامُ محنةً والأرواحُ منحةً، هو أُلفةٌ بين الحزنِ والفرحِ، هو ما تراهُ محجوباً، وتعرفُهُ مجهولاً، وتسمَعُهُ صامتاً، هو قوّةٌ تبتدئُ في قُدسِ أقداسِ ذاتك وتنتهي فيما وراء تخيّلاتِكَ...." -Kahlil Gibran
"And he alone is great who turns the voice of the wind into a song made sweeter by his own loving." -Kahlil Gibran
"Trees are poems the earth writes upon the sky, We fell them down and turn them into paper, That we may record our emptiness." -Kahlil Gibran
"En steeds was het zo, dat liefde haar eigen diepte niet kent tot het uur der scheiding. (Profeet)" -Kahlil Gibran
"وقف الأمير على شرفة القصر ونادى الجموع المزدحمة في تلك الحديقة، وقال: «أبشركم وأهنئ البلاد، فالأميرة قد وضعت غلامًا يحيي شرف عائلتي المجيدة، ويكون لكم فخرًا وملاذًا ووريثًا لما أبقته أجدادي العظام،، افرحوا وتهللوا فمستقبلكم صار مناطًا بسليل المعالي»." -Kahlil Gibran
"وإذا ذاك لن تحزنوا لأنّكم كنتم عميانًا، ولن تأْسفوا لأنّكم كنتم صُمًّا. لأنّكم في اليوم الذي فيه تبصرون وتسمعون ستنكشف لكم الغايات الخفيّة في كلّ شيء،" -Kahlil Gibran
"فرابطة الحزن أقوى في النفوس من روابط الغبطة والسرور. والحب الذي تغسله العيون بدموعها يظل طاهرًا وجميلًا وخالدًا." -Kahlil Gibran
"Be patient. Perplexity is the beginning of knowledge." -Kahlil Gibran
"Travel and tell no one, live a true love and tell no one, live happily and tell no one. People ruin beautiful things." -Kahlil Gibran
"For to the fruit giving is a need, as receiving is a need to the root." -Kahlil Gibran
"I am a cloud, May—a cloud that mingles with objects, but never becomes united with them. I am a cloud, and in the cloud is my solitude, my loneliness, my hunger, and my thirst. But my calamity is that the cloud, which is my reality, longs to hear someone say, ""You are not alone in this world but we are two together, and I know who you are." -Kahlil Gibran
"Selma sat by the window, looking on with sorrowful eyes and not speaking, although beauty has its own heavenly language, loftier than he voices of tongues and lips. It is a timeless language, common to all humanity, a calm lake that attracts the singing rivulets to its depth and makes them silent." -Kahlil Gibran
"And in much of your talking, thinking is half murdered." -Kahlil Gibran
"للشبيبة أجنحة ذات ريش من الشعر وأعصاب من الأوهام،" -Kahlil Gibran
"I feel that life is a sort of debt and payment. It gives us again and takes from us anew until we get tired of the giving and receiving and surrender to the final sleep." -Kahlil Gibran
"You delight in laying down laws, Yet you delight more in breaking them" -Kahlil Gibran
"Kederlenmeden ve huzur içinde nasıl giderim ?Yo hayır ruhum sızısız ayrılmayacak bu kentten" -Kahlil Gibran
"Among the hills, when you sit in the cool shade of the white poplars, sharing the peace and serenity of distant fields and meadows — then let your heart say in silence, 'God rests in reason.' And when the storm comes, and the mighty wind shakes the forest, and thunder and lightning proclaim the majesty of the sky, — then let your heart say in awe, 'God moves in passion.' And since you are a breath in God's sphere, and a leaf in God's forest, you too should rest in reason and move in passion. Chapter 16 — Pain And a woman spoke, saying, Tell us of Pain. And he said: Your pain is the breaking of the shell that encloses your understanding. Even as the stone of the fruit must break, that its heart may stand in the sun, so must you know pain. And could you keep your heart in wonder at the daily miracles of your life, your pain would not seem less wondrous than your joy; And you would accept the seasons of your heart, even as you have always accepted the seasons that pass over your fields. And you would watch with serenity through the winters of your grief. Much of your pain is self-chosen. It is the bitter potion by which the physician within you heals your sick self. Therefore trust the physician, and drink his remedy in silence and tranquillity: For his hand, though heavy and hard, is guided by the tender hand of the Unseen, And the cup he brings, though it burn your lips, has been fashioned of the clay which the Potter has moistened with His own sacred tears. Chapter 17 — Self-Knowledge And a man said, Speak to us of Self-Knowledge." -Kahlil Gibran
"And from that day to this, the wise men of Ishana say one to another secretly, ""Is it not known, and has it not been said from of old, that Ishana is ruled by an enemy?""-Khalil Gibran" -Kahlil Gibran
"Once I said to a poet ""We shall not know your worth until you die."" And he answered saying, ""Yes, death is always the revealer. And if indeed you would know my worth it is that that I have more in my heart than upon my tongue, and more in my desire than in my hand." -Kahlil Gibran
"… إن الشيوخ يرجعون بالفكر إلى أيام شبابهم رجوع الغريب المشتاق إلى مسقط رأسه، ويميلون إلى سرد حكايات الصبا ميل الشاعر إلى تنغيم أبلغ قصائده، فهم يعيشون بالروح في زوايا الماضي الغابر؛ لأن الحاضر لا يمر بهم ولا يلتفت، والمستقبل يبدو لأعينهم متشحًا بضباب الزوال وظلمة القبر." -Kahlil Gibran
"الأم هي كل شيء في هذه الحياة، هي التعزية في الحزن، والرجاء في اليأس، والقوة في الضعف، هي ينبوع الحنو والرأفة والشفقة والغفران،" -Kahlil Gibran
"فادخلوها صامتين، وسيروا ببطء كيلا تزعج أقدامُكم رفات الراقدين تحت أطباق الثرى، وقفوا متهيِّبين بجانب قبر سلمى وحيُّوا عني التراب الذي ضم جثمانها." -Kahlil Gibran
"Then the Queen of Fantasy drew me toward her with a look of enchanting and kissed my burning lips, say: ""Say that who passes not his days in the region of dreams is the slave of those days." -Kahlil Gibran
"وهو واحد من القليلين الذين يجيئون هذا العالم ويغادرونه قبل أن يلامسوا بالأذى نفس مخلوق، ولكن هؤلاء الرجال يكونون غالبًا تعساءَ مظلومين؛ لأنهم يجهلون سبل الاحتيال التي تنقذهم من مكر الناس وخبثهم" -Kahlil Gibran
"Mirad primero si merecéis ser donadores y los instrumentos de la dádiva." -Kahlil Gibran
"I do not know any other man in Beirut whose wealth has made him kind and whose kindness has made him wealthy. He is one of the few who come to this world and leave it without harming any one, but people of that kind are usually miserable and oppressed because they are not clever enough to save themselves from the crookedness of others." -Kahlil Gibran
"الخاصة بالغلاف محفوظة لشركة رفوف أون" -Kahlil Gibran
"وكما أَنّ ورقةً واحدةً على الشجرة لا تصفَرُّ إلّا بمعرفة الشجرة كلّها، كذلك لا يستطيع المجرم أَن يقترف جرمًا إلّا بالإِرادة الخفيّة التي هي إرادتكم كلّكم." -Kahlil Gibran
"خرجت شاعرًا بأن تلك الليلة التي وُلدت فيها ثانية هي الليلة التي لمحت فيها وجه الموت لأول مرة." -Kahlil Gibran
"لأن النفس إذا تطهّرت بالنار واغتسلت بالدموع" -Kahlil Gibran
"Le jour qui nous sépare sera-t-il le jour qui nous rassemble?" -Kahlil Gibran
"يا صاحبي : إنني أود ألا تصدق ما أقول و ألا تثق بما أفعل ، لأن أقوالي ليست سوى صدى لأفكارك ، و أفعالي ليست سوى أشباح آمالك." -Kahlil Gibran