"Being deeply loved by someone gives you strength, while loving someone deeply gives you courage." -Lao Tzu
"Simplicity, patience, compassion.These three are your greatest treasures.Simple in actions and thoughts, you return to the source of being.Patient with both friends and enemies,you accord with the way things are.Compassionate toward yourself,you reconcile all beings in the world." -Lao Tzu
"The journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step." -Lao Tzu
"Knowing others is intelligence;knowing yourself is true wisdom.Mastering others is strength; mastering yourself is true power." -Lao Tzu
"Life is a series of natural and spontaneous changes. Don't resist them; that only creates sorrow. Let reality be reality. Let things flow naturally forward in whatever way they like." -Lao Tzu
"A good traveler has no fixed plans and is not intent on arriving." -Lao Tzu
"Those who know do not speak. Those who speak do not know." -Lao Tzu
"When you are content to be simply yourself and don't compare or compete, everyone will respect you." -Lao Tzu
"The truth is not always beautiful, nor beautiful words the truth." -Lao Tzu
"Time is a created thing. To say 'I don't have time,' is like saying, 'I don't want to." -Lao Tzu
"The best fighter is never angry." -Lao Tzu
"If you are depressed you are living in the past. If you are anxious you are living in the future. If you are at peace you are living in the present." -Lao Tzu
"Because one believes in oneself, one doesn't try to convince others. Because one is content with oneself, one doesn't need others' approval. Because one accepts oneself, the whole world accepts him or her." -Lao Tzu
"A man with outward courage dares to die; a man with inner courage dares to live." -Lao Tzu
"Care about what other people think and you will always be their prisoner." -Lao Tzu
"Nature does not hurry, yet everything is accomplished." -Lao Tzu
"Be content with what you have; rejoice in the way things are.When you realize there is nothing lacking, the whole world belongs to you." -Lao Tzu
"At the center of your beingyou have the answer;you know who you areand you know what you want." -Lao Tzu
"Be careful what you water your dreams with. Water them with worry and fear and you will produce weeds that choke the life from your dream. Water them with optimism and solutions and you will cultivate success. Always be on the lookout for ways to turn a problem into an opportunity for success. Always be on the lookout for ways to nurture your dream." -Lao Tzu
"Do you have the patience to wait until your mud settles and the water is clear?" -Lao Tzu
"Silence is a source of Great Strength." -Lao Tzu
"The flame that burns Twice as bright burns half as long." -Lao Tzu
"If you understand others you are smart.If you understand yourself you are illuminated.If you overcome others you are powerful.If you overcome yourself you have strength.If you know how to be satisfied you are rich.If you can act with vigor, you have a will.If you don't lose your objectives you can be long-lasting.If you die without loss, you are eternal." -Lao Tzu
"Stop thinking, and end your problems." -Lao Tzu
"Kindness in words creates confidence. Kindness in thinking creates profoundness. Kindness in giving creates love." -Lao Tzu
"Manifest plainness,Embrace simplicity,Reduce selfishness,Have few desires." -Lao Tzu
"A leader is bestWhen people barely know he existsOf a good leader, who talks little,When his work is done, his aim fulfilled,They will say, 'We did this ourselves." -Lao Tzu
"Music in the soul can be heard by the universe." -Lao Tzu
"Respond intelligently even to unintelligent treatment" -Lao Tzu
"Act without expectation." -Lao Tzu
"To attain knowledge, add things everyday. To attain wisdom, remove things every day." -Lao Tzu
"If you try to change it, you will ruin it. Try to hold it, and you will lose it." -Lao Tzu
"I have three precious things which I hold fast and prize. The first is gentleness; the second is frugality; the third is humility, which keeps me from putting myself before others. Be gentle and you can be bold; be frugal and you can be liberal; avoid putting yourself before others and you can become a leader among men." -Lao Tzu
"Doing nothing is better than being busy doing nothing." -Lao Tzu
"To know that you do not know is the best.To think you know when you do not is a disease.Recognizing this disease as a disease is to be free of it." -Lao Tzu
"Stop thinking, and end your problems.What difference between yes and no?What difference between success and failure?Must you value what others value,avoid what others avoid?How ridiculous!Other people are excited,as though they were at a parade.I alone don't care,I alone am expressionless,like an infant before it can smile.Other people have what they need;I alone possess nothing.I alone drift about,like someone without a home.I am like an idiot, my mind is so empty.Other people are bright;I alone am dark.Other people are sharp;I alone am dull.Other people have purpose;I alone don't know.I drift like a wave on the ocean,I blow as aimless as the wind.I am different from ordinary people.I drink from the Great Mother's breasts." -Lao Tzu
"Watch your thoughts, they become your words; watch your words, they become your actions; watch your actions, they become your habits; watch your habits, they become your character; watch your character, it becomes your destiny." -Lao Tzu
"The wise man is one who, knows, what he does not know." -Lao Tzu
"Water is the softest thing, yet it can penetrate mountains and earth. This shows clearly the principle ofsoftness overcoming hardness." -Lao Tzu
"The snow goose need not bathe to make itself white. Neither need you do anything but be yourself." -Lao Tzu
"If you do not change direction, you may end up where you are heading." -Lao Tzu
"Men are born soft and supple; dead they are stiff and hard. Plants are born tender and pliant; dead, they are brittle and dry. Thus whoever is stiff and inflexible is a disciple of death. Whoever is soft and yielding is a disciple of life. The hard and stiff will be broken. The soft and supple will prevail." -Lao Tzu
"Give evil nothing to opposeand it will disappear by itself." -Lao Tzu
"If a person seems wicked, do not cast him away. Awaken him with your words, elevate him with your deeds, repay his injury with your kindness. Do not cast him away; cast away his wickedness." -Lao Tzu
"Knowledge is a treasure, but practice is the key to it." -Lao Tzu
"To understand the limitation of things, desire them." -Lao Tzu
"If you realize that all things change, there is nothing you will try to hold on to. If you are not afraid of dying, there is nothing you cannot achieve." -Lao Tzu
"By letting go it all gets done." -Lao Tzu
"To a mind that is still the whole universe surrenders." -Lao Tzu
"In dwelling, live close to the ground. In thinking, keep to the simple. In conflict, be fair and generous. In governing, don't try to control. In work, do what you enjoy. In family life, be completely present." -Lao Tzu
"Accomplish but do not boast, accomplish without show, accomplish without arrogance, accomplish without grabbing, accomplish without forcing." -Lao Tzu
"all streams flow to the sea because it is lower than they are. humility gives it its power. if you want to govern the people, you must place yourself below them. if you want to lead the people, you must learn how to follow them." -Lao Tzu
"To lead people, walk beside them ...As for the best leaders, the people do not notice their existence.The next best, the people honor and praise.The next, the people fear; and the next, the people hate ...When the best leader's work is done the people say,We did it ourselves!" -Lao Tzu
"What the caterpillar calls the end, the rest of the world calls a butterfly." -Lao Tzu
"Stop leaving and you will arrive. Stop searching and you will see. Stop running away and you will be found." -Lao Tzu
"The further one goes, the less one knows." -Lao Tzu
"I have just three things to teach: simplicity, patience, compassion. These three are your greatest treasures." -Lao Tzu
"LoveEmbracing Tao, you become embraced.Supple, breathing gently, you become reborn.Clearing your vision, you become clear.Nurturing your beloved, you become impartial.Opening your heart, you become accepted.Accepting the World, you embrace Tao.Bearing and nurturing,Creating but not owning,Giving without demanding,Controlling without authority,This is love." -Lao Tzu
"She does not show herself, and therefore is apparent. She does not affirm herself, and therefore is acknowledged. She does not boast and therefore has merit. She does not strive and therefore is successful. It is exactly because she does not contend, that nobody can contend with her." -Lao Tzu
"Loss is not as bad as wanting more." -Lao Tzu
"When the student is ready the teacher will appear. When the student is truly ready... The teacher will Disappear." -Lao Tzu
"The Way to do is to be." -Lao Tzu
"Muddy water, let stand, becomes clear." -Lao Tzu
"So the unwanting soulsees what's hidden,and the ever-wanting soulsees only what it wants." -Lao Tzu
"He who knows others is wise; he who knows himself is enlightened." -Lao Tzu
"Your own positive future begins in this moment. All you have is right now. Every goal is possible from here." -Lao Tzu
"When people see some things as beautiful,other things become ugly.When people see some things as good,other things become bad." -Lao Tzu
"When there is no desire,all things are at peace." -Lao Tzu
"Close your mouth,block off your senses,blunt your sharpness,untie your knots,soften your glare,settle your dust.This is the primal identity." -Lao Tzu
"There is no greater danger than underestimating your opponent." -Lao Tzu
"Trying to understand is like straining through muddy water. Have the patience to wait! Be still and allow the mud to settle." -Lao Tzu
"We join spokes together in a wheel, but it is the center hole that makes the wagon move.We shape clay into a pot, but it is the emptiness insidethat holds whatever we want.We hammer wood for a house, but it is the inner spacethat makes it livable.We work with being, but non-being is what we use." -Lao Tzu
"He who controls others may be powerful, but he who has mastered himself is mightier still." -Lao Tzu
"He who conquers others is strong; he who conquers himself is mighty' - Lao-tsu" -Lao Tzu
"Love is a decision - not an emotion!" -Lao Tzu
"As soon as you have made a thought, laugh at it." -Lao Tzu
"Because of a great love, one is courageous." -Lao Tzu
"The reason why the universe is eternal is that it does not live for itself; it gives life to others as it transforms." -Lao Tzu
"A good traveler has no fixed plansand is not intent upon arriving.A good artist lets his intuitionlead him wherever it wants.A good scientist has freed himself of conceptsand keeps his mind open to what is.Thus the Master is available to all peopleand doesn't reject anyone.He is ready to use all situationsand doesn't waste anything.This is called embodying the light.What is a good man but a bad man's teacher?What is a bad man but a good man's job?If you don't understand this, you will get lost,however intelligent you are.It is the great secret." -Lao Tzu
"Those who flow as life flows know they need no other force." -Lao Tzu
"Success is as dangerous as failure.Hope is as hollow as fear." -Lao Tzu
"Do you have the patience to wait Till your mud settles and the water is clear?Can you remain unmovingTill the right action arises by itself?" -Lao Tzu
"True words aren't eloquent;eloquent words aren't true.Wise men don't need to prove their point;men who need to prove their point aren't wise.The Master has no possessions.The more he does for others,the happier he is.The more he gives to others,the wealthier he is." -Lao Tzu
"If you correct your mind, the rest of your life will fall into place." -Lao Tzu
"Hope and fear are both phantoms that arise from thinking of the self. When we don't see the self as self, what do we have to fear?" -Lao Tzu
"Health is the greatest possession. Contentment is the greatest treasure. Confidence is the greatest friend." -Lao Tzu
"Water is fluid, soft, and yielding. But water will wear away rock, which is rigid and cannot yield. As a rule, whatever is fluid, soft, and yielding will overcome whatever is rigid and hard. This is another paradox: what is soft is strong." -Lao Tzu
"Countless words count less than the silent balance between yin and yang" -Lao Tzu
"There isa time to liveand a time to diebut never to reject the moment." -Lao Tzu
"Rushing into action, you fail.Trying to grasp things, you lose them.Forcing a project to completion,you ruin what was almost ripe.Therefore the Master takes actionby letting things take their course.He remains as calm at the end as at the beginning.He has nothing,thus has nothing to lose.What he desires is non-desire;what he learns is to unlearn.He simply reminds peopleof who they have always been.He cares about nothing but the Tao.Thus he can care for all things." -Lao Tzu
"The past has no power to stop youfrom being present now.Only your grievance aboutthe past can do that.What is grievance?The baggage of oldthought and emotion." -Lao Tzu
"Do you imagine the universe is agitated? Go into the desert at night and look at the stars. This practice should answer the question." -Lao Tzu
"To hold, you must first open your hand. Let go" -Lao Tzu
"He who stands on tiptoe doesn't stand firm.He who rushes ahead doesn't go far.He who tries to shine dims his own light.He who defines himselfcan't know who he really is.He who has power over others can't empower himself.He who clings to his work will create nothing that endures.If you want to accord with the Tao,just do your job, then let go." -Lao Tzu
"My teachings are easy to understand and easy to put into practice.Yet your intellect will never grasp them,and if you try to practice them,you'll fail.My teachings are older than the world.How can you grasp their meaning?If you want to know me,Look inside your heart." -Lao Tzu
"Fill your bowl to the brim and it will spill. Keep sharpening your knife and it will blunt." -Lao Tzu
"Great acts are made up of small deeds." -Lao Tzu
"Do your work, then step back. The only path to serenity." -Lao Tzu
"When nothing is done, nothing is left undone." -Lao Tzu
"Perfection is the willingness to be imperfect." -Lao Tzu
"Be still. Stillness reveals the secrets of eternity" -Lao Tzu
"One who is too insistent on his own views finds few to agree with him." -Lao Tzu
"Do you want to improve the world?I don't think it can be done.The world is sacred.It can't be improved.If you tamper with it, you'll ruin it.If you treat it like an object, you'll lose it.There is a time for being ahead,a time for being behind;a time for being in motion,a time for being at rest;a time for being vigorous,a time for being exhausted;a time for being safe,a time for being in danger.The Master sees things as they are,without trying to control them.She lets them go their own way,and resides at the center of the circle." -Lao Tzu
"New Beginnings are often disguised as painful endings." -Lao Tzu
"To bear and not to own; to act and not lay claim; to do the work and let it go: for just letting it go is what makes it stay." -Lao Tzu
"He who knows, does not speak. He who speaks, does not know." -Lao Tzu
"The world belongs to those who let go." -Lao Tzu
"Become totally emptyQuiet the restlessness of the mindOnly then will you witness everything unfolding from emptiness" -Lao Tzu
"Not-knowing is true knowledge.Presuming to know is a disease.First realize that you are sick;then you can move toward health." -Lao Tzu
"if you want to know me, look inside your heart." -Lao Tzu
"Colors blind the eye Sounds deafen the ear.Flavors numb the taste.Thoughts weaken the mind.Desires wither the heart." -Lao Tzu
"He who knows that enough is enough will always have enough." -Lao Tzu
"If you wish to be out front, then act as if you were behind." -Lao Tzu
"Let it be still, and it will gradually become clear." -Lao Tzu
"A great nation is like a great man:When he makes a mistake, he realizes it.Having realized it, he admits it.Having admitted it, he corrects it.He considers those who point out his faultsas his most benevolent teachers.He thinks of his enemyas the shadow that he himself casts." -Lao Tzu
"Love is of all the passions the strongest, for it attacks simultaneously the head, the heart, and the senses." -Lao Tzu
"Would you like to save the world from the degradation and destruction it seems destined for? Then step away from shallow mass movements and quietly go to work on your own self-awareness. If you want to awaken all of humanity, then awaken all of yourself. If you want to eliminate the suffering in the world, then eliminate all that is dark and negative in yourself. Truly, the greatest gift you have to give is that of your own self-transformation." -Lao Tzu
"Mastering others is strength. Mastering oneself makes you fearless." -Lao Tzu
"There is no illusion greater than fear." -Lao Tzu
"If you show yourself, you will not be seen. If you affirm yourself, you will not shine. If you boast, you will have no merit. If you promote yourself, you will have no success." -Lao Tzu
"If there is to be peace in the world,There must be peace in the nations.If there is to be peace in the nations,There must be peace in the cities.If there is to be peace in the cities,There must be peace between neighbors.If there is to be peace between neighbors,There must be peace in the home.If there is to be peace in the home,There must be peace in the heart." -Lao Tzu
"Respond to anger with virtue. Deal with difficulties while they are still easy. Handle the great while it is still small." -Lao Tzu
"He who acts, spoils; he who grasps, lets slip." -Lao Tzu
"Shape clay into a vessel;It is the space within that makes it useful.Cut doors and windows for a room;It is the holes which make it useful.Therefore benefit comes from what is there;Usefulness from what is not there." -Lao Tzu
"What is firmly rooted cannot be pulled out." -Lao Tzu
"To realize that you do not understand is a virtue; not to realize that you do not understand is a defect." -Lao Tzu
"When the people of the world all know beauty as beauty, there arises the recognition of ugliness. When they all know the good as good, there arises the recognition of evil." -Lao Tzu
"Empty your mind of all thoughts.Let your heart be at peace.Watch the turmoil of beings, but contemplate their return.Each separate being in the universe returns to the common source.Returning to the source is serenity.If you don't realize the source, you stumble in confusion and sorrow.When you realize where you come from, you naturally become tolerant, disinterested, amused, kindhearted as a grandmother, dignified as a king.Immersed in the wonder of the Tao, you can deal with whatever life brings you, and when death comes, you are ready." -Lao Tzu
"Take care with the end as you do with the beginning." -Lao Tzu
"Go to the people. Live with them. Learn from them. Love them. Startwith what they know. Build with what they have. But with the bestleaders, when the work is done, the task accomplished, the people willsay 'We have done this ourselves." -Lao Tzu
"A man is born gentle and weak; at his death he is hard and stiff. All things, including the grass and trees, are soft and pliable in life; dry and brittle in death. Stiffness is thus a companion of death; flexibility a companion of life. An army that cannot yield will be defeated. A tree that cannot bend will crack in the wind. The hard and stiff will be broken; the soft and supple will prevail." -Lao Tzu
"When the Master governs, the peopleare hardly aware that he exists.Next best is a leader who is loved.Next, one who is feared.The worst is one who is despised.If you don't trust people,you make them untrustworthy.The Master doesn't talk, he acts.When his work is done,the people say, 'Amazing:we did it, all by ourselves!" -Lao Tzu
"Failure is an opportunity.If you blame someone else,there is no end to the blame.Therefore the Masterfulfills her own obligationsand corrects her own mistakes.She does what she needs to doand demands nothing of others." -Lao Tzu
"Fame or integrity: which is more important? Money or happiness: which is more valuable? Success or failure: which is more destructive? If you look to others for fulfillment, you will never truly be fulfilled. If your happiness depends on money, you will never be happy with yourself. Be content with what you have; rejoice in the way things are. When you realize there is nothing lacking, the whole world belongs to you." -Lao Tzu
"When pure sincerity forms within, it is outwardly realized in other people's hearts." -Lao Tzu
"Not seeking, not expecting, she is present, and can welcome all things." -Lao Tzu
"Those who know don't talk. Those who talk don't know. Close your mouth, block off your senses, blunt your sharpness, untie your knots, soften your glare, settle your dust. This is the primal identity. Be like the Tao. It can't be approached or withdrawn from, benefited or harmed, honored or brought into disgrace. It gives itself up continually. That is why it endures." -Lao Tzu
"Some lose yet gain, others gain and yet lose." -Lao Tzu
"Knowing others is wisdom;Knowing the self is enlightenment.Mastering others requires force;Mastering the self requires strength;He who knows he has enough is rich.Perseverance is a sign of will power." -Lao Tzu
"The person of superior integrity does not insist upon his integrity.For this reason, he has integrity.The person of inferior integritynever loses sight of his integrity;For this reason, he lacks integrity." -Lao Tzu
"The difficult problems in life always start off being simple. Great affairs always start off being small." -Lao Tzu
"He is free from self- display, and therefore he shines;" -Lao Tzu
"In the end,The treasure of life is missed by those who hold on and gained by those who let go." -Lao Tzu
"Fill your bowl to the brimand it will spill.Keep sharpening your knifeand it will blunt.Chase after money and securityand your heart will never unclench.Care about people's approvaland you will be their prisoner. Do your work, then step back.The only path to serenity." -Lao Tzu
"Be like water." -Lao Tzu
"If you are untrustworthy, people will not trust you." -Lao Tzu
"Spring comes, and the grass grows by itself." -Lao Tzu
"The journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step. Watch your step." -Lao Tzu
"The wise man does not lay up his own treasures.The more he gives to others,the more he has for his own." -Lao Tzu
"The Tao that can be told is not the eternal Tao. The name that can be named is not the eternal name. The nameless is the beginning of heaven and earth. The named is the mother of ten thousand things. Ever desireless, one can see the mystery. Ever desiring, one can see the manifestations. These two spring from the same source but differ in name; this appears as darkness. Darkness within darkness. The gate to all mystery." -Lao Tzu
"The heart that gives, gathers." -Lao Tzu
"A man who knows how little he knows is well, a man who knows how much he knows is sick. If, when you see the symptoms, you can tell, Your cure is quick.A sound man knows that sickness makes him sick and before he catches it his cure is quick." -Lao Tzu
"Тhe gentle overcomes the rigid.The slow overcomes the fast.The weak overcomes the strong.'…'Everyone knows that the yielding overcomes the stiff,and the soft overcomes the hard.Yet no one applies this knowledge." -Lao Tzu
"If you want to awaken all of humanity, then awaken all of yourself. If you want to eliminate the suffering in the world, then eliminate all that is dark and negative in yourself. Truly, the greatest gift you have to give is that of your own self-transformation." -Lao Tzu
"Just remain in the center; watching. And then forget that you are there." -Lao Tzu
"A good traveler leaves no tracks. Good speech lacks fault-finding." -Lao Tzu
"He who defends with love will be secure; Heaven will save him, and protect him with love." -Lao Tzu
"The road you can talk about is not the road you can walk on" -Lao Tzu
"True perfection seems imperfect,yet it is perfectly itself.True fullness seems empty,yet it is fully present.True straightness seems crooked.True wisdom seems foolish.True art seems artless." -Lao Tzu
"The master observes the world but trusts his inner vision. He allows things to come and go. He prefers what is within to what is without." -Lao Tzu
"When goodness is lost there is morality." -Lao Tzu
"Clay is fashioned into vessels; but it is on their empty hollowness, that their use depends." -Lao Tzu
"If you search everywhere, yet cannot find what you are seeking, it is because what you seek is already in your possession." -Lao Tzu
"Simplicity, patience, compassion.These three are your greatest treasures.Simple in actions and thoughts, you return to the source of being.Patient with both friends and enemies,you accord with the way things are.Compassionate toward yourself,you reconcile all beings in the world.'…'There is no greater misfortunethan underestimating your enemy.Underestimating your enemymeans thinking that he is evil.Thus you destroy your three treasuresand become an enemy yourself.When two great forces oppose each other,the victory will goto the one that knows how to yield." -Lao Tzu
"The Wise Man is square but not sharp, honest but not not malign, straight but not severe, bright but not dazzling." -Lao Tzu
"The hard and mighty lie beneath the groundWhile the tender and weak dance on the breeze above." -Lao Tzu
"Water is fluid, soft & yielding but water will wear away rock, which is rigid and cannot yield ... what is soft is strong." -Lao Tzu
"The reason why heaven and earth are able to endure and continue thus long is because they do not live of, or for, themselves." -Lao Tzu
"free from desire, you realize the mysterycaught in the desire, you see only the manifestations." -Lao Tzu
"True words are not fancy. Fancy words are not true. The good do not debate. Debaters are not good." -Lao Tzu
"Do not conquer the world with force, for force only causes resistance. Thorns spring up when an army passes. Years of misery follow a great victory. Do only what needs to be done without using violence." -Lao Tzu
"Thus it is said:The path into the light seems dark,the path forward seems to go back,the direct path seems long,true power seems weak,true purity seems tarnished,true steadfastness seems changeable,true clarity seems obscure,the greatest are seems unsophisticated,the greatest love seems indifferent,the greatest wisdom seems childish.The Tao is nowhere to be found.Yet it nourishes and completes all things." -Lao Tzu
"in the pursuit of knowledge: everyday something is added.in the pursuit of enlightenment:everyday something is dropped." -Lao Tzu
"If you want to lead them you must place yourself behind them." -Lao Tzu
"He who is in harmony with the Taois like a newborn child.Its bones are soft, its muscles are weak,but its grip is powerful.It doesn't know about the unionof male and female,yet its penis can stand erect,so intense is its vital power.It can scream its head off all day,yet it never becomes hoarse,so complete is its harmony.The Master's power is like this.He lets all things come and goeffortlessly, without desire.He never expects results;thus he is never disappointed.He is never disappointed;thus his spirit never grows old." -Lao Tzu
"I thought I know you,but it was only me.The you that you truly areis not the you I see.My mind has formed your imagebut you have already travelled onI want to see only youbut I see you through me" -Lao Tzu
"Ordinary men hate solitude. But the Master makes use of it, embracing his aloneness, realizing he is one with the whole universe." -Lao Tzu
"When the work is done, and one's name is becoming distinguished, to withdraw into obscurity is the way of Heaven." -Lao Tzu
"Boasting of wealth and virtue brings your demise." -Lao Tzu
"The inner is foundation of the outerThe still is master of the restlessThe Sage travels all dayyet never leaves his inner treasure" -Lao Tzu
"Everything under heaven is a sacred vessel and cannot be controlled. Trying to control leads to ruin. Trying to grasp, we lose. Allow your life to unfold naturally. Know that it too is a vessel of perfection. Just as you breathe in and breathe out, there is a time for being ahead and a time for being behind; a time for being in motion and a time for being at rest; a time for being vigorous and a time for being exhausted; a time for being safe and a time for being in danger." -Lao Tzu
"Must you value what others value,avoid what others avoid?How ridiculous!" -Lao Tzu
"Knowing others is Wisdom, knowing yourself is Enlightenment" -Lao Tzu
"Every step is on the path." -Lao Tzu
"Without opening your door,you can open your heart to the world.Without looking out your window,you can see the essence of the Tao.The more you know,the less you understand.The Master arrives without leaving,sees the light without looking,achieves without doing a thing." -Lao Tzu
"Knowing how to yield is strength" -Lao Tzu
"With no desire, at rest and still, All things go right as of their will." -Lao Tzu
"A violent wind does not last for a whole morning; a sudden rain does not last for the whole day." -Lao Tzu
"Existence is beyond the power of wordsTo define:Terms may be usedBut are none of them absolute.In the beginning of heaven and earth there were no words,Words came out of the womb of matter;And whether a man dispassionatelySees to the core of lifeOr passionatelySees the surface,The core and the surfaceAre essentially the same,Words making them seem differentOnly to express appearance.If name be needed, wonder names them both:From wonder into wonderExistence opens." -Lao Tzu
"To be worn out is to be renewed." -Lao Tzu
"When you accept yourself, the whole world accepts you." -Lao Tzu
"The softest things in the world overcome the hardest things in the world.Through this I know the advantage of taking no action." -Lao Tzu
"There is no disaster greater than not being content; There is no misfortune greater than being covetous." -Lao Tzu
"He whose (desires) are few gets them; he whose (desires) are many goes astray." -Lao Tzu
"Under heaven all can see beauty as beauty only because there is ugliness. All can know good as good only because there is evil." -Lao Tzu
"Do the difficult things while they are easy and do the great things while they are small. A journey of a thousand miles must begin with a single step." -Lao Tzu
"If lightning is the anger of the gods, then the gods are concerned mostly about trees." -Lao Tzu
"The flexible are preserved unbroken. The bent become straight. The empty are filled. The exhausted become renewed. The poor are enriched. The rich are confounded. Therefore the sage embraces the one. Because he doesn't display himself, people can see his light. Because he has nothing to prove, people can trust his words. Because he doesn't know who he is, people recognize themselves in him. Because he has no goal in mind, everything he does succeeds. The old saying that the flexible are preserved unbroken is surely right! If you have truely attained wholeness, everything will flock to you." -Lao Tzu
"The more laws and order are made prominent, the more thieves and robbers there will be." -Lao Tzu
"Where the Mystery is the deepest is the gate of all that is subtle and wonderful." -Lao Tzu
"he who overcomes himself is mighty." -Lao Tzu
"To become learned, each day add something. To become enlightened, each day drop something." -Lao Tzu
"An over sharpened sword cannot last long. " -Lao Tzu
"An ocean of ink in a single drop,Trembling at the tip of my brush.Poised above stark white paper,A universe waits for existence." -Lao Tzu
"Chanting is no more holy than listening to the murmur of a stream, couting prayer beads no more scared than simply breathing, religious robed no more spiritual than work clothes." -Lao Tzu
"Darkness within darkness. The gateway to all understanding " -Lao Tzu
"Look, and it can't be seen.Listen, and it can't be heard.Reach, and it can't be grasped.Above, it isn't bright.Below, it isn't dark.Seamless, unnamable,it returns to the realm of nothing.Form that includes all forms,image without an image,subtle, beyond all conception.Approach it and there is no beginning;follow it and there is no end.You can't know it, but you can be it,at ease in your own life.Just realize where you come from:this is the essence of wisdom." -Lao Tzu
"a skillful soldier is not violent, an able fighter does not rage, a mighty conqueror does not give battle, a great commander is a humble man" -Lao Tzu
"When wealth and honours lead to arrogancy, this brings its evil on itself." -Lao Tzu
"Sincere words are not fine; fine words are not sincere." -Lao Tzu
"In harmony with the Tao,the sky is clear and spacious,the earth is solid and full,all creatures flourish together,content with the way they are,endlessly repeating themselves,endlessly renewed.when man interferes with the Taothe sky becomes filthy,the earth becomes depleted,the equilibrium crumbles,creatures become extinct." -Lao Tzu
"The way of heaven is to help and not harm." -Lao Tzu
"Go to the people. Live with them, learn from them, love them." -Lao Tzu
"Trying to control the future is like trying to take the master carpenter's place. When you handle the master carpenter's tools, chances are that you'll cut your hand." -Lao Tzu
"To speak little is natural. Therefore a gale does not blow a whole morning nor does a downpour last a whole day." -Lao Tzu
"from wonder into wonder existence opens" -Lao Tzu
"The moral man does something,and when no one respondshe rolls up his sleeves and uses force." -Lao Tzu
"The Tao doesn't take sides;it gives birth to both good and evil.The Master doesn't take sides;she welcomes both saints and sinners.The Tao is like a bellows:it is empty yet infinitely capable.The more you use it, the more it produces;the more you talk of it, the less you understand.Hold on to the center." -Lao Tzu
"Some say that my teaching is nonsense.Other call it lofty but impractical.But to those who have looked inside themselves,this nonsense makes perfect sense.And to those who put it into practice,this loftiness has roots that go deep." -Lao Tzu
"When people see some things as beautiful,other things become ugly.When people see some things as good,other things become bad.Being and non-being create each other.Difficult and easy support each other.Long and short define each other.High and low depend on each other.Before and after follow each other.Therefore the Masteracts without doing anythingand teaches without saying anything.Things arise and she lets them come;things disappear and she lets them go.She has but doesn't possess,acts but doesn't expect.When her work is done, she forgets it.That is why it lasts forever." -Lao Tzu
"When I let go of what I am I become what i might be." -Lao Tzu
"If you do not value rare treasures, you will stop others from stealing." -Lao Tzu
"Our enemies are not demons, but human beings like ourselves" -Lao Tzu
"If you want to become whole, let yourself be partial. If you want to become straight, let yourself be crooked. If you want to become full, let yourself be empty. If you want to be reborn, let yourself die. If you want to be given everything, give everything up." -Lao Tzu
"To know and yet (think) we do not know is the highest (attainment); not to know (and yet think) we do know is a disease." -Lao Tzu
"As to the roaming of sages,They move in utter emptiness,Let their minds meander in the great nothingness;They run beyond conventionAnd go through where there is no gateway.They listen to the soundlessAnd look at the formless,They are not constrained by societyAnd not bound to its customs.- Lao-tzu" -Lao Tzu
"He who knows he has enough is rich. Perseverance is a sign of will power. He who stays where he is endures. To die but not to perish is to be eternally present." -Lao Tzu
"A bad man is a good man's job" -Lao Tzu
"Always without desire we must be found," -Lao Tzu
"Because she competes with no one, no one can compete with her." -Lao Tzu
"To lead the people, walk behind them." -Lao Tzu
"With few there is attainment. With much there is confusion." -Lao Tzu
"The Tao that can be told is not the eternal Tao." -Lao Tzu
"There are few in the world who attain to the teaching without words, and the advantage arising from non-action." -Lao Tzu
"Figure out the rhythm of life and live in harmony with it." -Lao Tzu
"If the people must be ever fearful of death, then there will always be an executioner." -Lao Tzu
"The Formless WayWe look at it, and do not see it; it is invisible.We listen to it, and do not hear it; it is inaudible.We touch it, and do not feel it; it is intangible.These three elude our inquiries, and hence merge into one.Not by its rising, is it bright,nor by its sinking, is it dark.Infinite and eternal, it cannot be defined.It returns to nothingness.This is the form of the formless, being in non-being.It is nebulous and elusive.Meet it, and you do not see its beginning.Follow it, and you do not see its end.Stay with the ancient Wayin order to master what is present.Knowing the primeval beginning is the essence of the Way." -Lao Tzu
"stillness, the ruler of movement." -Lao Tzu
"When the highest type of men hear Tao,They diligently practice it.When the average type of men hear Tao,They half believe in it.When the lowest type of men hear Tao,They laugh heartily at it.Without the laugh, there is no Tao" -Lao Tzu
"Composure is the ruler of instability." -Lao Tzu
"If you look to others for fulfillment, you will never truly be fulfilled. If your happiness depends on money, you will never be happy with yourself. Be content with what you have; rejoice in the way things are. When you realize there is nothing lacking, the whole world belongs to you." -Lao Tzu
"Is it not through her selflessness that she is able to perfect herself?" -Lao Tzu
"Thus it is said:The path into light seems dark,the path forward seems to go back,the direct path seems long,true power seems weak...the greatest love seems indifferent,the greatest wisdom seems childish." -Lao Tzu
"Whoever is planted in the Taowill not be rooted up.Whoever embraces the Taowill not slip away.Her name will be held in honorfrom generation to generation.Let the Tao be present in your lifeand you will become genuine.Let it be Present in your familyand your family will flourish.Let it be present in your countryand your country will be an example to all countries in the world.Let it be present in the universeand the universe will sing.How do I know this is true?by looking inside myself." -Lao Tzu
"It is better to leave a vessel unfilled, than to attempt to carry it when it is full." -Lao Tzu
"If I had just a little bit of wisdom I should walk the great path and fear only straying from it." -Lao Tzu
"When men lost their understanding of the Tao, intelligence came along, bringing hypocrisy with it." -Lao Tzu
"Nothingness and Beingness are merely conceptions..." -Lao Tzu
"When you are at one with loss, the loss is experienced willingly." -Lao Tzu
"The soft overcomes the hard; and the weak the strong." -Lao Tzu
"Pursue that which is not meddlesome." -Lao Tzu
"It is because he is thus free from striving that therefore no one in the world is able to strive with him." -Lao Tzu
"Look, and it can't be seen.Listen, and it can't be heard.Reach, and it can't be grasped." -Lao Tzu
"Those who understand others are intelligent Those who understand themselves are enlightened  Those who overcome others have strength Those who overcome themselves are powerful  Those who know contentment are wealthy Those who proceed vigorously have willpower  Those who do not lose their base endure Those who die but do not perish have longevity" -Lao Tzu
"Allow the heart to empty itself of all turmoil! Retrieve the utter tranquility of the mind from which you issued.Although all forms are dynamic,and we all grow and transform,each of us is compelled to return to our root. Our root is quietude." -Lao Tzu
"Kind prince there is nothing in the realm of ideas that is absolute, therefore all efforts to form ideologies are ultimately futile." -Lao Tzu
"Every journey begins with a single step." -Lao Tzu
"When turmoil rules, go in." -Lao Tzu
"NOT LAO TZU!!!! Watch your thoughts; they become words. Watch your words; they become actions. Watch your actions; they become habit. Watch your habits; they become character. Watch your character; it becomes your destiny." -Lao Tzu
"The more laws and restrictions there are,The poorer people become....The more rules and regulations,The more thieves and robbers." -Lao Tzu
"If you want to govern the people,You must place yourself below them.If you want to lead people,You must learn how to follow them." -Lao Tzu
"If we could renounce our sageness and discard our wisdom, it would be better for the people a hundredfold." -Lao Tzu
"The Master is her own physician.She has healed herself of all knowing.Thus she is truly whole." -Lao Tzu
"The Tao is (like) the emptiness of a vessel; and in our employment of it we must be on our guard against all fulness." -Lao Tzu
"The excellence of water appears in its benefiting all things, and in its occupying, without striving (to the contrary), the low place which all men dislike." -Lao Tzu
"The unnamable is the eternally real. Naming is the origin of all particular things." -Lao Tzu
"Abstaining from speech marks him who is obeying the spontaneity of his nature." -Lao Tzu
"Therefore the sage puts his own person last, and yet it is found in the foremost place; he treats his person as if it were foreign to him, and yet that person is preserved." -Lao Tzu
"Treat those who are good with goodness, and also treat those who are not good with goodness. Thus goodness is attained. Be honest to those who are honest, and be also honest to those who are not honest. Thus honesty is attained." -Lao Tzu
"If we could renounce our benevolence and discard our righteousness, the people would again become filial and kindly." -Lao Tzu
"The Master doesn't try to be powerful;thus he is truly powerful.The ordinary man keeps reaching for power;thus he never has enough.The Master does nothing,yet he leaves nothing undone.The ordinary man is always ding things,yet many more are left to be done.[…]Therefore the Master concerns himselfWith the depths and not the surface,With the fruit and not the flower.[…]Teaching without words,Performing without actions:That is the Master's way.[…]The Master arrives without leaving,Sees the light without looking,Achieves without doing a thing.[…]The Master is above the people,And no one feels oppressed.She goes ahead of the people,And no feels manipulated.The whole world is grateful to her.Because she completes with no one,No one can complete with her." -Lao Tzu
"When you realize there is nothing lacking, the whole world belongs to you." -Lao Tzu
"He who knows does not speak; he who speaks does not know." -Lao Tzu
"Simplicity has no name is free of desires. Being free of desires it is tranquil. And the world will be at peace of it's own accord." -Lao Tzu
"Thirty spokes share the hub of a wheel;yet it is its center that makes it useful.You can mould clay into a vessel;yet, it is its emptiness that makes it useful.Cut doors and windows from the walls of a house;but the ultimate use of the housewill depend on that part where nothing exists.Therefore, something is shaped into what is;but its usefulness comes from what is not." -Lao Tzu
"All difficult things in the world are sure to arise from a previous state in which they were easy, and all great things from one in which they were small." -Lao Tzu
"It is the child that sees the primordial secret of Nature and it is the child of ourselves we return to. the child within us is simple and daring enough to live the Secret." -Lao Tzu
"He who speaks does not know; he who knows does not speak" -Lao Tzu
"The supreme good is like water, which nourishes all things without trying to. It is content with the low places that people disdain. Thus it is like the Tao. In dwelling, live close to the ground. In thinking, keep to the simple. In conflict, be fair and generous. In governing, don't try to control. In work, do what you enjoy. In family life, be completely present. When you are content to be simply yourself and don't compare or compete, everybody will respect you." -Lao Tzu
"What is a good man but a bad man's teacher. What is a bad man but a good man's job." -Lao Tzu
"Nothing is softer or more flexible than water, yet nothing can resist it" -Lao Tzu
"The master dwells in the substantial and not in the superficial. Rests in the fruit and not in the flower." -Lao Tzu
"Your inner being guard, and keep it free." -Lao Tzu
"Therefore the sage, in the exercise of his government, empties their minds, fills their bellies, weakens their wills, and strengthens their bones." -Lao Tzu
"Wasting energy to obtain rare objects only impedes one's growth." -Lao Tzu
"the skilful speaker says nothing that can be found fault with or blamed;" -Lao Tzu
"Racing and hunting madden our minds." -Lao Tzu
"The sage shuns excess, shuns grandiosity, shuns arrogance." -Lao Tzu
"He who is satisfied with his lot is rich;" -Lao Tzu
"The highest excellence is like (that of) water." -Lao Tzu
"How could a decent person ever rejoice in victory and delight in the slaughter of men" -Lao Tzu
"One who understands others has knowledge; one who understands himself has wisdom. Mastering others requires force; mastering the self needs strength." -Lao Tzu
"The best of all leaders is the one who helps people so that eventually they don't need him." -Lao Tzu
"The way is easy stay on the path." -Lao Tzu
"He who stands on his tiptoes does not stand firm; he who stretches his legs does not walk (easily)." -Lao Tzu
"He who is contented is rich." -Lao Tzu
"Manage affairs before they are in a mess." -Lao Tzu
"If you keep feeling a point that has been sharpened, the point cannot long preserve its sharpness." -Lao Tzu
"When gold and jade fill the hall, their possessor cannot keep them safe." -Lao Tzu
"Know glory but cleave to humiliation." -Lao Tzu
"Thirty spokesShare one hub.Make the nothing therein appropriate, and you will have the use of the cart." -Lao Tzu
"The Sage sees the worldas an expansion of his own selfSo what need has he to accumulate things?" -Lao Tzu
"So it is that existence and non-existence give birth the one to (the idea of) the other;" -Lao Tzu
"The name that can be named is not the enduring and unchanging name." -Lao Tzu
"The sage has in the world an appearance of indecision, and keeps his mind in a state of indifference to all." -Lao Tzu
"Aquél que obtiene una victoria sobre otro hombre es fuerte, pero quien obtiene una victoria sobre sí mismo es poderoso." -Lao Tzu
"he who knows himself is intelligent." -Lao Tzu
"I do not concern myself with gods and spirits either good or evil nor do I serve any." -Lao Tzu
"Learn from the people Plan with the people Begin with what they have Build on what they know Of the best leaders When the task is accomplished The people will remark We have done it ourselves." -Lao Tzu
"When the great Tao is forgotten,goodness and piety appear.When the body's intelligence declines,cleverness and knowledge step forth.When there is no peace in the family,filial piety begins.When the country falls into chaos,patriotism is born." -Lao Tzu
"So it is that some things are increased by being diminished, and others are diminished by being increased." -Lao Tzu
"If the force of arms is considered the only means of authority, it is not an auspicious instrument." -Lao Tzu
"not to show them what is likely to excite their desires is the way to keep their minds from disorder." -Lao Tzu
"There is no calamity greater than lightly engaging in war." -Lao Tzu
"he who is self-conceited has no superiority allowed to him." -Lao Tzu
"The ruler attains wholeness in the correct governance of the people." -Lao Tzu
"Mastering others is strength. Mastering yourself is true power." -Lao Tzu
"All in the world know the beauty of the beautiful, and in doing this they have (the idea of) what ugliness is;" -Lao Tzu
"Therefore the sufficiency of contentment is an enduring and unchanging sufficiency." -Lao Tzu
"The thirty spokes unite in the one nave; but it is on the empty space (for the axle), that the use of the wheel depends." -Lao Tzu
"The skilful traveller leaves no traces of his wheels or footsteps" -Lao Tzu
"No one can insult me, because I do not want respect.No one can defeat me, because I have given up the idea of winning.How can you defeat me? You can only defeat someone who wants to win." -Lao Tzu
"When there is silence one finds the anchor of the universe within oneself" -Lao Tzu
"Nature never hurries, yet everything is accomplished" -Lao Tzu
"Care about people´s approval and you will be their prisoner. Do your work, then step back, the only path to serenity." -Lao Tzu
"A skilful (commander) strikes a decisive blow, and stops." -Lao Tzu
"The perception of what is small is (the secret of clear- sightedness; the guarding of what is soft and tender is (the secret of) strength." -Lao Tzu
"Be simply yourself and don't compare or compete" -Lao Tzu
"To love someone deeply gives you strength. Being loved by someone deeply gives you courage." -Lao Tzu
"We shape clay into a pot, but it is the emptiness inside that holdswhatever we want." -Lao Tzu
"The great Way is easy,yet people prefer the side paths.Be aware when things are out of balance." -Lao Tzu
"Those who possessed in highest degree the attributes (of the Tao) did not (seek) to show them, and therefore they possessed them (in fullest measure)." -Lao Tzu
"Respond intelligently even to unintelligent treatment.''The words of truth are always paradoxical." -Lao Tzu
"The best rulers are scarcely known by their subjects;The next best are loved and praised;The next are feared;The next despised:They have no faith in their people,And their people become unfaithful to them.When the best rulers achieve their purposeTheir subjects claim the achievement as their own." -Lao Tzu
"The sage puts herself last and is first." -Lao Tzu
"The power of intuitive understanding will protect you from harm until the end of your days." -Lao Tzu
"When things (in the vegetable world) have displayed their luxuriant growth, we see each of them return to its root." -Lao Tzu
"Therefore: In dwelling, choose modest quarters, in thinking, value stillness, in dealing with others, be kind, in choosing words, be sincere, in leading, be just, in working, be competent, in acting, choose the correct timing. Follow these words and there will be no error." -Lao Tzu
"If you don't stand sincere by your wordshow sincere can the people be?Take great care over words, treasure them." -Lao Tzu
"Un camino de mil millas comienza con un primer paso." -Lao Tzu
"If you would take, you must first give, this is the beginning of intelligence." -Lao Tzu
"To Know others is perceptive,to know yourself is wise.To conquer others is forceful,to conquer yourself is strong." -Lao Tzu
"Three men in ten conserve life; three men in ten pursue death. Three men also in ten desire to live, but there acts hasten their journey to the house of death. Why is this? Because of their efforts to preserve life." -Lao Tzu
"By letting it go it all gets done. The world is won by those who let it go. But when you try and try. The world is beyond winning." -Lao Tzu
"When things flourish they decline." -Lao Tzu
"He who feels puncturedMust once have been a bubble,He who feels unarmedMust have carried arms,He who feels belittledMust have been consequential,He who feels deprivedMust have had privilege." -Lao Tzu
"The gentlest thing in the worldovercomes the hardest thing in the world.That which has no substanceenters where there is no space.This shows the value of non-action.Teaching without words,performing without actions:that is the Master's way." -Lao Tzu
"The farther that one goes out (from himself), the less he knows." -Lao Tzu
"from self-complacency, and therefore he acquires superiority." -Lao Tzu
"A good traveler leaves no track." -Lao Tzu
"The slaying of multitudes should be mourned with sorrow. A victory should be celebrated with the funeral rite." -Lao Tzu
"Who acts in stillness finds stillness in his life." -Lao Tzu
"He who talks more is sooner exhausted." -Lao Tzu
"Purity and stillness give the correct law to all under heaven." -Lao Tzu
"To avoid disappointment, know what is sufficient. To avoid trouble, know when to stop. If you are able to do this, you will last a long time." -Lao Tzu
"The violent and strong do not die their natural death. I will make this the basis of my teaching." -Lao Tzu
"he who asserts his own views is not distinguished;" -Lao Tzu
"Too much brightness blinds the eyes. Too much sound deafens the ears. Too much flavour ruins the tongue. Chasing desires to excess turns your mind towards madness, and valuing precious things impairs good judgment." -Lao Tzu
"With virtue and quietness one may conquer the world." -Lao Tzu
"The first is gentleness; the second is economy; and the third is shrinking from taking precedence of others." -Lao Tzu
"Chase after money and securityAnd your heart will never unclench.Care about people's approvalAnd you will be their prisoner.Do your work, then step back.The only path to serenity." -Lao Tzu
"from self-boasting, and therefore his merit is acknowledged;" -Lao Tzu
"he who vaunts himself does not find his merit acknowledged;" -Lao Tzu
"He who knows the masculine but keeps to the feminine,Becomes the ravine of the world.Being the ravine of the world,He dwells in constant virtue,He returns to the state of the babe.He who knows the white but keeps to the black,Becomes the model of the world.Being the model of the world,He rests in constant virtue,He returns to the infinite.He who knows glory but keeps to disgrace,Becomes the valley of the world.Being the valley of the world,He finds contentment in constant virtue,He returns to the Uncarved Block." -Lao Tzu
"Heaven and earth do not act from (the impulse of) any wish to be benevolent; they deal with all things as the dogs of grass are dealt with." -Lao Tzu
"Scholars of the highest class, when they hear about the Tao, earnestly carry it into practice." -Lao Tzu
"Hence the sage puts away excessive effort, extravagance, and easy indulgence." -Lao Tzu
"The kingdom is a spirit-like thing, and cannot be got by active doing." -Lao Tzu
"But if desire always within us be," -Lao Tzu
"He who would so win it destroys it; he who would hold it in his grasp loses it." -Lao Tzu
"Heaven's net is wide, but its mesh is fine" -Lao Tzu
"Man takes his law from the Earth; the Earth takes its law from Heaven; Heaven takes it law from the Tao. The law of the Tao is its being what it is." -Lao Tzu
"no calamity greater than to be discontented with one's lot;" -Lao Tzu
"Rather than act like the lord of the manor,I would rather behave like a guest.Rather than advance an inch,I would rather retreat a foot." -Lao Tzu
"Choose food, clothing, and shelter that accords with nature.Rely on your own body for transportation. Allow your work and your recreation to be one and the same. Do exercise that develops your whole being and not just your body. Listen to music that bridges the three spheres of your being. Choose leaders for their virtue rather than their wealth or power. Serve others and cultivate yourself simultaneously. Understand that true growth comes from meeting and solving problems of life in a way that is harmonizing to yourself and to others. If you can follow these simple old ways, you will be continually renewed." -Lao Tzu
"Simplicity without a nameIs free from all external aim.With no desire, at rest and still,All things go right as of their will." -Lao Tzu
"The sage produces without possessing, acts without expectations, and accomplishes without abiding in her accomplishments. It is precisely because she does not abide in them that they never leave her." -Lao Tzu
"Therefore the sage seeks to satisfy (the craving of) the belly, and not the (insatiable longing of the) eyes." -Lao Tzu
"Pohon yang besarnya sepelukan, tumbuh dari benih yang kecil saja.Menara setinggi sembilan tingkat, dibangun mulai dari seonggok tanah.Perjalanan seribu li, dimulai dari satu langkah." -Lao Tzu
"Intellectual knowledge exists in and of the brain.Because the brain is part of the body, which must one day expire, this collection of facts, however large and impressive, will expire as well.Insight, however, is a function of the spirit.Because your spirit follows you through cycle after cycle of life, death, and rebirth, you have the opportunity of cultivating insight in an ongoing fashion.Refined over time, insight becomes pure, constant, and unwavering.This is the beginning of immortality." -Lao Tzu
"The skilful traveller leaves no traces of his wheels or footsteps;" -Lao Tzu
"When the intelligent and animal souls are held together in one embrace, they can be kept from separating." -Lao Tzu
"Someone who is too insistent in his own views finds few to agree with him." -Lao Tzu
"Possessing rare treasures brings about harmful behavior." -Lao Tzu
"The space between Heaven and Earth---is it not like a bellows?" -Lao Tzu
"The World has a First Cause, which may be regarded as the Mother of the World. When one has found the Mother, one can know the Child. Knowing the Child and still keeping the Mother, to the end of his days he shall suffer no harm." -Lao Tzu
"Lao Tzu 'The key to growth is the introductionof higher dimensions of consciousnessinto our awareness." -Lao Tzu
"If you become whole, everything will come to you." -Lao Tzu
"When the world knows beauty as beauty, ugliness arises." -Lao Tzu
"Keep life and lose those other things;" -Lao Tzu
"Too many words cause exhaustion[In the mind or from the mouth]Better to abide in stillness" -Lao Tzu
"To those who are good (to me), I am good;and to those who are not good (to me), I am also good;--and thus (all) get to be good.To those who are sincere (with me), I am sincere;and to those who are not sincere (with me), I am also sincere;--and thus (all) get to be sincere." -Lao Tzu
"Gravity is the root of lightness; stillness, the ruler of movement." -Lao Tzu
"When I let go of who I am, I become who I might be." -Lao Tzu
"The partial becomes complete; the crooked, straight; the empty, full; the worn out, new." -Lao Tzu
"The master leadsby emptying people's mindsand filling their cores,by weakening their ambitionand toughening their resolve." -Lao Tzu
"The tree which fills the arms grew from the tiniest sprout; the tower of nine storeys rose from a (small) heap of earth; the journey of a thousand li commenced with a single step." -Lao Tzu
"The tree too thick to embraceemerges from a seedling.A nine-storey tower rises from a brick.A thousand-mile journey begins under your feet." -Lao Tzu
"Quien conoce a los demás es inteligente. Quien se conoce a sí mismo tiene visión interna. Quien conquista a los demás tiene fuerza; quien se conquista a sí mismo es realmente poderoso." -Lao Tzu
"There is no guilt greater than to sanction ambition;" -Lao Tzu
"Allow your life to unfold naturally Know that it too is a vessel of perfection Just as you breathe in and breathe out Sometimes you're ahead and other times behind Sometimes you're strong and other times weak Sometimes you're with people and other times alone" -Lao Tzu
"If any one should wish to get the kingdom for himself, and to effect this by what he does, I see that he will not succeed." -Lao Tzu
"السيطرة على التنفس تجلب التوتروعندما تبالغ في بذل المجهود يكون الارهاقاغلق فمكواضبط حواسكتحكم في حدتكبسط مشاكلككن واحدا مع تراب الأرضهذه هي الوحدة الأولى*من يحقق هذه الحالة لا يهمه الأصدقاء ولا الأعداء ولا يهتم بالطيب ولا بالخبيثولا بالمجد أو المهانةتلك أعلى حالات الانسان" -Lao Tzu
"Who can (make) the muddy water (clear)? Let it be still, and it will gradually become clear. Who can secure the condition of rest? Let movement go on, and the condition of rest will gradually arise." -Lao Tzu
"Peace is our original state" -Lao Tzu
"Make the earth a dwelling place. Cultivate the heart and mind. Practice benevolence. Stand by your word. Govern with equity. Serve skillfully. Act in a timely way, without contentiousness, free of blame." -Lao Tzu
"A journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step.' Lao Tzu. 'Just try to make sure that you step in the right direction." -Lao Tzu
"Therefore the sage holds in his embrace the one thing (of humility), and manifests it to all the world." -Lao Tzu
"Klar sieht, wer von ferne sieht, nebelhaft, wer Anteil nimmt." -Lao Tzu
"Who can (make) the muddy water (clear)?" -Lao Tzu
"Therefore the sage manages affairs without doing anything, and conveys his instructions without the use of speech." -Lao Tzu
"Emptiness appears barrenyet is infinite fullness" -Lao Tzu
"Respeta tu propia visión interior y confía en tus pensamientos naturales" -Lao Tzu
"Too much thinking causes confusion and anxietybetter to stick with the simplicity of Tao" -Lao Tzu
"el tao que puede ser expresado no es el verdadero tao." -Lao Tzu
"Why is the sea king of a hundred streams?Because it lies below them.This is why the sea is king of a hundred streams." -Lao Tzu
"He who knows other men is discerning;" -Lao Tzu
"¿Cuál es la verdadera esencia de lo que revelan mis ojos?" -Lao Tzu
"It is through their not being full of themselves that they can afford to seem worn and not appear new and complete." -Lao Tzu
"Therefore, what has a (positive) existence serves for profitable adaptation, and what has not that for (actual) usefulness." -Lao Tzu
"Ruling a large kingdom is like cooking a small fish..." -Lao Tzu
"Have done with learning,And you will have no more vexation.How great is the difference between 'eh' and 'o'?What is the distinction between 'good' and 'evil'?Must I fear what others fear?What abysmal nonsense this is!All men are joyous and beaming,As though feasting upon a sacrificial ox,As though mounting the Spring Terrace;I alone am placid and give no sign,Like a babe which has not yet smiled.I alone am forlorn as one who has no home to return to.All men have enough and to spare:I alone appear to possess nothing.What a fool I am!What a muddled mind I have!All men are bright, bright:I alone am dim, dim.All men are sharp, sharp:I alone am mum, mum!Bland like the ocean,Aimless like the wafting gale.All men settle down in their grooves:I alone am stubborn and remain outside.But wherein I am most different from others isIn knowing to take sustenance from my Mother!" -Lao Tzu
"Those who have knowledge, don't predict. Those who predict, don't have knowledge" -Lao Tzu
"Truly good people are not aware of their goodness, And are therefore good." -Lao Tzu
"The getting that (favour) leads to the apprehension (of losing it), and the losing it leads to the fear of (still greater calamity):--this is what is meant by saying that favour and disgrace would seem equally to be feared." -Lao Tzu
"Action should be taken before a thing has made its appearance; order should be secured before disorder has begun." -Lao Tzu
"Creating without claiming. Doing without taking credit. Guiding without interfering. This is primal virtue." -Lao Tzu
"Let movement go on, and the condition of rest will gradually arise." -Lao Tzu
"We should blunt our sharp points, and unravel the complications of things; we should attemper our brightness, and bring ourselves into agreement with the obscurity of others." -Lao Tzu
"Calm and repose are what he prizes; victory (by force of arms) is to him undesirable." -Lao Tzu
"The people suffer from famine because of the multitude of taxes consumed by their superiors." -Lao Tzu
"Peace in Every step" -Lao Tzu
"If we could renounce our artful contrivances and discard our (scheming for) gain, there would be no thieves nor robbers." -Lao Tzu
"Then appeared wisdom and shrewdness, and there ensued great hypocrisy." -Lao Tzu
"Its outer fringe is all that we shall see." -Lao Tzu
"If you are depressed, you are living in the past. If you are anxious, you are living in the future. If you are at peace, you are living in the present." -Lao Tzu
"The giant tree starts out as the tiniest shoot, the tallest tower starts out as a single brick, the longest journey starts with the first step." -Lao Tzu
"Moved by deep love, a man is courageous.And with frugality, a man becomes generous,And he who does not desire to be ahead of theworld becomes the leader of the world." -Lao Tzu
"With these three qualities, it cannot be made the subject of description; and hence we blend them together and obtain The One." -Lao Tzu
"Stillness and tranquility set things in order in the universe." -Lao Tzu
"Not to value and employ men of superior ability is the way to keep the people from rivalry among themselves;" -Lao Tzu
"Quien conoce su ignorancia revela la más profunda sabiduría.Quien ignora su ignorancia vive en la más profunda ilusión." -Lao Tzu
"Connaître les autres, c'est sagesse.Se connaître soi-même, c'est sagesse supérieure.Imposer sa volonté aux autres, c'est force.Se l'imposer à soi-même, c'est force supérieure." -Lao Tzu
"Because he does not strive, no one finds it possible to strive with him." -Lao Tzu
"Revere the unity of all-that-iscarry out your daily activities with compassion;if you do not limit your compassion,you yourself will not be limited." -Lao Tzu
"El hombre corriente, cuando emprende una cosa, la echa a perder por tener prisa en terminarla." -Lao Tzu
"Practice non-action.Work without doing.Magnify the small;increase the few.Reward bitterness with care." -Lao Tzu
"If you want to awaken all of humanity, then awaken all of yourself.If you want to eliminate suffering in the world, then eliminate all that is dark and negative in yourself.For truly, the greatest gift you have to offer humanity,is your own transformation. ~Lao Tzu" -Lao Tzu
"Heaven and Earth (under its guidance) unite together and send down the sweet dew, which, without the directions of men, reaches equally everywhere as of its own accord." -Lao Tzu
"All things return (to their root and disappear), and do not know that it is it which presides over their doing so;--it may be named in the greatest things." -Lao Tzu
"Why do the people starve? It is because those at the top eat too much, and taxes are too high. This is why the people starve. Why are the people difficult to lead? It is because those in authority are meddlesome in their affairs. This is why the people are difficult to lead." -Lao Tzu
"He who conquers other has force; he who conquers himself has strength." -Lao Tzu
"تخلى تتفوق انحن تستقم أفرغ نفسك تمتليء استهلك نفسك تجددها ارض بالقليل تصبح غنياًامتلك الكثير تصيبك الفوضى والارتباك" -Lao Tzu
"I have just three things to teach: simplicity, patience, compassion. These three are your greatest treasures. Simple in actions and in thoughts, you return to the source of being. Patient with both friends and enemies, you accord with the way things are. Compassionate toward yourself, you reconcile all beings in the world." -Lao Tzu
"Simplicity without a name Is free from all external aim." -Lao Tzu
"There is nothing in the world more soft and weak than water, and yet for attacking things that are firm and strong there is nothing that can take precedence of it;--for there is nothing (so effectual) for which it can be changed." -Lao Tzu
"the mind is just as immeasurable as the vast universe. An integral being settles his mind just as the vast universe settles itself. He unites his mind with the unnamable Subtle Origin of the multi-universe in which there is no past, present or future. This is how an integral being deals with his mind." -Lao Tzu
"Therefore he who would administer the kingdom, honouring it as he honours his own person, may be employed to govern it, and he who would administer it with the love which he bears to his own person may be entrusted with it." -Lao Tzu
"Ist eine Lehre zur Satzung erstarrt, hat sie geendet." -Lao Tzu
"This returning to their root is what we call the state of stillness; and that stillness may be called a reporting that they have fulfilled their appointed end." -Lao Tzu
"The knowledge of that unchanging rule produces a (grand) capacity and forbearance, and that capacity and forbearance lead to a community (of feeling with all things)." -Lao Tzu
"Let nature take its course. By letting each thing act in accordance with its own nature, everything that needs to be done gets done." -Lao Tzu
"If its deep mystery we would sound;" -Lao Tzu
"Earth is a divine organismit cannot be successfully manipulatedWho attempts manipulation will encounter defeat" -Lao Tzu
"The pot's use comes from emptiness." -Lao Tzu
"When he has cleansed away the most mysterious sights (of his imagination), he can become without a flaw." -Lao Tzu
"The difficulty in governing the people arises from their having much knowledge." -Lao Tzu
"Thus Spoke Zarathustra (German: Also sprach Zarathustra, sometimes translated Thus Spake Zarathustra), subtitled A Book for All and None (Ein Buch für Alle und Keinen), is a written work by German philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche, composed in four parts between 1883 and 1885. Much of the work deals with ideas such as the 'eternal recurrence of the same', the parable on the 'death of God', and the 'prophecy' of the Overman, which were first introduced in The Gay Science.Described by Nietzsche himself as 'the deepest ever written', the book is a dense and esoteric treatise on philosophy and morality, featuring as protagonist a fictionalized Zarathustra. A central irony of the text is that the style of the Bible is used by Nietzsche to present ideas of his which fundamentally oppose Judaeo-Christian morality and tradition." -Lao Tzu
"Constant action overcomes cold; being still overcomes heat." -Lao Tzu
"The great Tao (or way) is very level and easy; but people love the by-ways." -Lao Tzu
"How can one know the eternal origin?By letting go of ideasand allowing it to reveal itself" -Lao Tzu
"So, he who has the attributes (of the Tao) regards (only) the conditions of the engagement, while he who has not those attributes regards only the conditions favorable to himself." -Lao Tzu
"The simple child again, free from all stains." -Lao Tzu
"When I let go of what I amI become what I might be." -Lao Tzu
"So, he who displays himself does not shine;" -Lao Tzu
"من يقف على أطراف أصابعه لا يمكن أن يكون ثابتا من يوسع خطوته لا يستطيع تنظيمها الذي يتفاخر لا يحقق شيئاًوالذي يتباهى لا يظل طويلاً" -Lao Tzu
"The strong wind cannot last the whole morning, the torrential rain cannot last all day. It is nature that causes these things, but even nature cannot cause them to go on forever. If nature cannot do this, then certainly man cannot do so." -Lao Tzu
"Thirty spokes converge at the hub,but emptiness completes the wheel.Clay is shaped to make a pot,and what's useful is its emptiness.Carve fine doors and windows,but the room is useful in its emptiness.What isis beneficial, while what is notalso proves useful." -Lao Tzu
"Seeing our own smallness is called insight, honoring our own tenderness is called strenght." -Lao Tzu
"The multitude of men look satisfied and pleased; as if enjoying a full banquet, as if mounted on a tower in spring. I alone seem listless and still, my desires having as yet given no indication of their presence. I am like an infant which has not yet smiled. I look dejected and forlorn, as if I had no home to go to. The multitude of men all have enough and to spare. I alone seem to have lost everything. My mind is that of a stupid man; I am in a state of chaos.Ordinary men look bright and intelligent, while I alone seem to be benighted. They look full of discrimination, while I alone am dull and confused. I seem to be carried about as on the sea, drifting as if I had nowhere to rest. All men have their spheres of action, while I alone seem dull and incapable, like a rude borderer.(Thus) I alone am different from other men, but I value the nursing-mother (the Tao)." -Lao Tzu
"He who defines himself can't know who he really is.He who has power over others can't empower himself." -Lao Tzu
"When there is no desire, all things are at peace." -Lao Tzu
"Is it not because he has no personal and private ends, that therefore such ends are realised?" -Lao Tzu
"العقلاء لا يستعرضون قدراتهم لذلك تشع منهم القوة انهم لا يتفاخرون لذلك يحيط بهم التقدير هم لا يتشاجرون لذلك لا يتشاجر معهم أحد" -Lao Tzu
"If you give evil nothing to oppose, then virtue will return by itself." -Lao Tzu
"A sage traveling all dayis never far from the supplies in his cart,and however spectacular the viewshe remains calm and composed." -Lao Tzu
"When the greatness of Tao is present action arises from one's own heart When the greatness of Tao is absent action comes from the rules of 'kindness' and 'justice' If you need rules to be kind and just, if you act virtuous, this is a sure sign that virtue is absent Thus we see the great hypocrisy Only when the family loses its harmony do we hear of 'dutiful sons' Only when the state is in chaos do we hear of 'loyal ministers" -Lao Tzu
"To those who are good (to me), I am good;" -Lao Tzu
"Perfect tranquillity is the way of heaven and earth." -Lao Tzu
"The people make light of dying because of the greatness of their labours in seeking for the means of living." -Lao Tzu
"A man should love others as himself and also their parents as his own." -Lao Tzu
"For regulating the human (in our constitution) and rendering the (proper) service to the heavenly, there is nothing like moderation." -Lao Tzu
"A person who prematurely believes that they comprehend the Tao sees only its external luster, and this is the beginning of delusion." -Lao Tzu
"From this community of feeling comes a kingliness of character; and he who is king-like goes on to be heaven-like." -Lao Tzu
"If you show yourself, you will not be seen. If you affirm yourself, you will not shine." -Lao Tzu
"It is only by this moderation that there is effected an early return (to man's normal state)." -Lao Tzu
"No te empeñes en forzar las cosas, lo que es tuyo irá a ti." -Lao Tzu
"The door and windows are cut out (from the walls) to form an apartment; but it is on the empty space (within), that its use depends." -Lao Tzu
"The more prohibitions you have, the less virtuous people will be." -Lao Tzu
"Un buen viajero no tiene planes fijos y no tiene intención de llegar." -Lao Tzu
"The mark of a moderate manis freedom from his own ideas.Tolerant like the sky,all-pervading like sunlight,firm like a mountain,supple like a tree in the wind,he has no destination in viewand makes use of anythinglife happens to bring his way." -Lao Tzu
"Libérate de la influencia de las opiniones de los demás." -Lao Tzu
"from self-assertion, and therefore he is distinguished;" -Lao Tzu
"The stiff and unyielding are the companions of death, while the yielding and tender are the companions of life. Therefore we see that unbending armies cannot conquer, and the strongest tree feels the axe. The mighty will fall down low, but the humble will rise up." -Lao Tzu
"He who knows other men is discerning; he who knows himself is intelligent. He who overcomes others is strong; he who overcomes himself is mighty. He who works hard gets wealth; he who knows when he has enough is truly rich. He who does not fail in the requirements of his position continues long; he who dies yet is not forgotten has longevity." -Lao Tzu
"We try to grasp it, and do not get hold of it, and we name it 'the Subtle." -Lao Tzu
"Misery and fortune share a trust.Happiness hides in misery." -Lao Tzu
"Therefore the sage desires what (other men) do not desire, and does not prize things difficult to get; he learns what (other men) do not learn, and turns back to what the multitude of men have passed by." -Lao Tzu
"Gravity is the root of lightness;" -Lao Tzu
"The reality of the building does not consist of the roof and walls, but the space within to be lived." -Lao Tzu
"What all men fear is indeed to be feared;" -Lao Tzu
"not to prize articles which are difficult to procure is the way to keep them from becoming thieves;" -Lao Tzu
"The ego is a monkey catapulting through the jungle: fascinated by the realm of the senses it swings from one desire to the next, one conflict to the next. Let this monkey go. Let desires go. Let conflicts go. Let ideas go. Just remain in the center, watching." -Lao Tzu
"Heaven is long-enduring and earth continues long." -Lao Tzu
"What makes me liable to great calamity is my having the body (which I call myself); if I had not the body, what great calamity could come to me?" -Lao Tzu
"Todo lo que ahora necesito,está aquí." -Lao Tzu
"De wijze heeft geen onwrikbare beginselen. Hij past zich aan anderen aan.(Free translation into English: The wise man has no firm principles. He adapts to others.)" -Lao Tzu
"Those who would take over the earthAnd shape it to their willNever, I notice, succeed.The earth is like a vessel so sacredThat at the mere approach of the profaneIt is marredAnd when they reach out their fingers it is gone.For a time in the world some force themselves aheadAnd some are left behind,For a time in the world some make a great noiseAnd some are held silent,For a time in the world some are puffed fatAnd some are kept hungry,For a time in the world some push aboardAnd some are tipped out:At no time in the world will a man who is saneOver-reach himself,Over-spend himself,Over-rate himself." -Lao Tzu
"He who (tries to) govern a state by his wisdom is a scourge to it; while he who does not (try to) do so is a blessing." -Lao Tzu
"Let your workings remain a mystery. Just show people your results." -Lao Tzu
"When the Great Tao (Way or Method) ceased to be observed, benevolence and righteousness came into vogue." -Lao Tzu
"The path into the light seems dark, the path forward seems to go back, the direct path seems long." -Lao Tzu
"Those who know do not talk.Those who talk do not know." -Lao Tzu
"All in the world think themselves great, but the great are not concerned. Indeed, only by not being concerned can they be great. If they cared about being great, they'd eventually become petty." -Lao Tzu
"Anything great is long in making." -Lao Tzu
"What calamity is greater than no contentment,and what flaw greater than the passion for gain." -Lao Tzu
"Life must be poetry, a song, a dance, like a flower on the roadside, blossoming for no one in particular, but spreading its fragrance in the wind, and sending it anywhere." -Lao Tzu
"Porque cree en sí mismo,no intenta convencer a otros.Porque está conformeconsigo mismo,no necesita la aprobación de otros." -Lao Tzu
"For the sageHeaven and Earth joinin bestowing the greatest gifts" -Lao Tzu
"Abstaining from speech marks him who is obeying the spontaneity of his nature. A violent wind does not last for a whole morning; a sudden rain does not last for the whole day. To whom is it that these (two) things are owing? To Heaven and Earth. If Heaven and Earth cannot make such (spasmodic) actings last long, how much less can a man!" -Lao Tzu
"Quien conoce a los otros es sabio; quien se conoce a sí mismo es iluminado." -Lao Tzu
"The wise consider themselves 'orphaned,' 'widowed,' and 'worthless.' Their humility is the source of their strength." -Lao Tzu
"I know hereby what advantage belongs to doing nothing (with a purpose)." -Lao Tzu
"He who knows other men is discerning;he who knows himself is intelligent.He who overcomes others is strong;he who overcomes himself is mighty.He who is satisfied with his lot is rich;he who goes on acting with energy has a (firm) will. He who does not fail in the requirements of his position, continues long;he who dies and yet does not perish, has longevity." -Lao Tzu
"This life, which had been the tomb of his virtue and of his honour, is but a walking shadow; a poor player, that struts and frets his hour upon the stage, and then is heard no more: it is a tale told by an idiot, full of sound and fury, signifying nothing." -Lao Tzu
"Highly evolved people have their own conscience as pure law." -Lao Tzu
"that (the ideas of) height and lowness arise from the contrast of the one with the other;" -Lao Tzu
"The Master, by residing in the Tao,sets an example for all beings.Because he doesn't display himself,people can see his light.Because he has nothing to prove,people can trust his words.Because he doesn't know who he is,people recognize themselves in him.Because he has no goal in mind,everything he does succeeds." -Lao Tzu
"Big trees grow from sprouts, tall buildings rise from mounds of earth; the loftiest heights start at your feet." -Lao Tzu
"Nature does not play favourites, it regards its creations without sentimentality. Therefore the wise person also acts in this way." -Lao Tzu
"They shall wear elegant and ornamented robes, carry a sharp sword at their girdle, pamper themselves in eating and drinking, and have a superabundance of property and wealth;--such (princes) may be called robbers and boasters." -Lao Tzu
"When a person puts on a show, trying to appear great, their mediocrity is soon exposed." -Lao Tzu
"Gently eliminating all obstacles to his own understanding, he constantly maintains his unconditional sincerity. His humility, perseverance, and adaptability evoke the response of the universe and fill him with divine light." -Lao Tzu
"Knowing constancy is enlightenment." -Lao Tzu
"Two names emerge from a single origin and both are called mysterious." -Lao Tzu
"He assists in developing people but he does not presume ownership over them." -Lao Tzu
"When one gives undivided attention to the (vital) breath, and brings it to the utmost degree of pliancy, he can become as a (tender) babe." -Lao Tzu
"In the highest antiquity, (the people) did not know that there were (their rulers)." -Lao Tzu
"With those who are kindthe sage is kindWith those who are not kindthe sage is also kindbecause the way of Tao is kindness" -Lao Tzu
"Work at things before they've begunand establish order before confusion sets in,for a tree you can barely reach aroundgrows from the tiniest rootlet,a nine-tiered towerstarts as a basket of dirt,a thousand-mile journeybegins with a single step." -Lao Tzu
"In the words of Chuang-tse, the mind of Wu Wei 'flows like water, reflects like a mirror, and responds like an echo." -Lao Tzu
"In the next age they loved them and praised them." -Lao Tzu
"By letting it go it all gets done. The world is won by those who let it go." -Lao Tzu
"against warWeapons are unhappy tools,not chosen by thoughtful people,to be used only when there is no choice,and with a calm, still mind,without enjoyment.To enjoy using weaponsis to enjoy killing people,and to enjoy killing peopleis to lose your share in the common good. ..." -Lao Tzu
"If a country is governed with repression, the people are depressed and crafty." -Lao Tzu
"Nothing under heavenis as yielding as water.And yet in attacking the hard,the unyielding,nothing can surpass it.Nothing can take its place.The weak overcomes the strong,the soft surpasses the hard.In all the world, there's no onewho doesn't know this,but no one can master the practice." -Lao Tzu
"The sages do not act from (any wish to be) benevolent; they deal with the people as the dogs of grass are dealt with." -Lao Tzu
"For to be over-developed is to hasten decay, and this is against Tao, and what is against Tao will soon cease to be." -Lao Tzu
"The wise person acts but does not take credit. Leads, but does not rule." -Lao Tzu
"When it once has that name, (men) can know to rest in it. When they know to rest in it, they can be free from all risk of failure and error." -Lao Tzu
"If you want to shrink something, you must first allow it to expand. If you want to get rid of something, you must first allow it to flourish. If you want to take something, you must first allow it to be given. This is called the subtle perception of the way things are. The soft overcomes the hard. The slow overcomes the fast. Let your workings remain a mystery. Just show people the results." -Lao Tzu
"Misery!--happiness is to be found by its side!" -Lao Tzu
"Great, it passes on (in constant flow)." -Lao Tzu
"The excellence of a residence is in (the suitability of) the place;" -Lao Tzu
"Thirty spokes share one hub in non-being lies the use of the cart knead clay to make vessels in non-being lies the use of the vessel cut out doors and windows to make a housetherefore form being comes what is usable and from non-being comes what is essential." -Lao Tzu
"The more people have weapons, the more the state is in confusion." -Lao Tzu
"If you don't stand sincere by your wordshow sincere can the people be?Take great care over words, treasure them.1.17" -Lao Tzu
"May not the space between heaven and earth be compared to a bellows?" -Lao Tzu
"Rendre le bien pour bien et bien pour le mal, c'est la bonté efficace.Être sincère avec ceux qui sont sincères et avec ceux qui ne le sont pas, c'est la sincérité efficace." -Lao Tzu
"He who overcomes others is strong;" -Lao Tzu
"Cuando me despojo de lo que soy, me torno en lo que podría ser." -Lao Tzu
"In dwelling, live close to the ground. In thinking, keep to the simple. In conflict, be fair and generous. In governing, don't try to control. In work, do what you enjoy. In family life, be completely present. When you are content to be simply yourself and don't compare or compete, everybody will respect you." -Lao Tzu
"Look for it, and it can't be seen.Listen for it, and it can't be heard.Grasp for it, and it can't be caught.These three cannot be further described,so we treat them as The One.It's highest is not bright.It's depths are not dark.Unending, unnameable, it returns to nothingness.Formless forms, and image less images,subtle, beyond all understanding.Approach it and you will not see a beginning;follow it and there will be no end.You can't know it, but you can be it,at ease in your own life.Just realize where you come from:this is the essence of wisdom." -Lao Tzu
"Favour and disgrace would seem equally to be feared; honour and great calamity, to be regarded as personal conditions (of the same kind)." -Lao Tzu
"Higher good is like water:the good in water benefits all,and does so without contention.It rests where people dislike to be,so it is close to the Way.Good ground;profound is the good in its heart,Benevolent the good it bestows." -Lao Tzu
"The Master, by residing in the Tao,sets an example for all beings.Because he doesn't display himself,people can see his light.Because he has nothing to prove,people can trust his words.Because he has no goal in mind,everything he does succeeds." -Lao Tzu
"they all know the skill of the skilful, and in doing this they have (the idea of) what the want of skill is." -Lao Tzu
"The sage, while clad in homespun, conceals on his person a priceless piece of jade." -Lao Tzu
"that difficulty and ease produce the one (the idea of) the other;" -Lao Tzu
"the more implements to add to their profit that the people have, the greater disorder is there in the state and clan;" -Lao Tzu
"Those who possessed the highest (sense of) propriety were (always seeking) to show it, and when men did not respond to it, they bared the arm and marched up to them." -Lao Tzu
"Colors blind the eye.Sounds deafen the ear.Flavors numb the taste.Thoughts weaken the mind.Desires wither the heart.The Master observes the worldbut trusts his inner vision.He allows things to come and go.His heart is open as the sky." -Lao Tzu
"GOODNESS True goodness is like water; it nurtures everything and harms nothing.  Like water, it ever seeks the lowest place,  the place that all others avoid. This is the way of the Tao.  For a dwelling it chooses the quiet meadow;  for a heart the circling eddy. In generosity it is kind; in speech it is sincere;  in power it is order; in action it is gentle; in movement it is rhythm. Because it is always peaceable,  it soothes and refreshes." -Lao Tzu
"Weapons are never the implements of good fortune, and they are to be detested. Therefore, the wise leader avoids them. Normally the wise leader values patience, but when at war he values action. Since he is opposed to the use of weapons, he uses them only when it is unavoidable, and even then with great restraint. To praise victory in war is to rejoice in the slaughter of men. The slaughter of men causes grief and sorrow to the people, therefore he who rejoices in this will not be successful. Fortune follows the restrained, misfortune follows the ambitious. Therefore victory in war should not be celebrated, but instead should be met with mourning." -Lao Tzu
"Its upper part is not bright, and its lower part is not obscure." -Lao Tzu
"Therefore the sage knows (these things) of himself, but does not parade (his knowledge); loves, but does not (appear to set a) value on, himself." -Lao Tzu
"Do that which consists in taking no action;Pursue that which is not meddlesome;Savor that which has no flavor.Make the small big and the few many;Do good to him who has done you an injury.Lay plans for the accomplishment of the difficult before it becomes difficult;Make something big by starting with it when small.Difficult things in the word must needs have their beginnings in the easy;Big things must needs have their beginnings in the small.Therefore it is because the sage never attempts to be great that he succeeds in becoming great.One who makes promises rashly rarely keeps good faith;One who is in the habit of considering things easy meets with frequent difficulties.Therefore even the sage treats some things as difficult.That is why in the end no difficulties can get the better of him." -Lao Tzu
"Water is the softest thing, yet it can penetrate mountains and earth.This shows clearly the principle of softness overcoming hardness." -Lao Tzu
"We put thirty spokes together and call it a wheel,But it is on the space where there is nothing that the usefulness of the wheels depends.We turn clay to make vessel,But it is on the space where there is nothing that the usefulness of the vessel depends.We pierce doors and windows to make a house,And it is on these spaces where there is nothing that the usefulness of the house depends.Therefore just as we take advantage of what is, we should recognize the usefulness of what is not." -Lao Tzu
"In the next they feared them; in the next they despised them." -Lao Tzu
"Without going out-of-doors, one can know all he needs to know. Without even looking out of his window, one can grasp the nature of everything. Without going beyond his own nature, one can achieve ultimate wisdom. Therefore, the intelligent man knows all he needs to know without going away, And sees all he needs to see without looking elsewhere, And does all he needs to do wihout undue exertion." -Lao Tzu
"Favour and disgrace would seem equally to be feared;" -Lao Tzu
"Health is the greatest possession. Contentment is the greatest treasure. Confidence is the greatest friend. Non-being is the greatest joy." -Lao Tzu
"The best athletewants his opponent at his best." -Lao Tzu
"Colour's five hues from th' eyes their sight will take;Music's five notes the ears as deaf can make;The flavours five deprive the mouth of taste;The chariot course, and the wild hunting wasteMake mad the mind; and objects rare and strange,Sought for, men's conduct will to evil change." -Lao Tzu
"La liberación del deseo conduce a la paz interior." -Lao Tzu
"All things under heaven sprang from It as existing (and named); that existence sprang from" -Lao Tzu
"The secret waits for eyes unclouded by longing." -Lao Tzu
"If you don't realize the source, you stumble in confusion and sorrow. When you realize where you come from, you naturally become tolerant, disinterested, amused, kindhearted as a grandmother, dignified as a king" -Lao Tzu
"He constantly (tries to) keep them without knowledge and without desire, and where there are those who have knowledge, to keep them from presuming to act (on it)." -Lao Tzu
"People are mysterious entities – try to take hold of them and you will only lose them. Thus, sometimes it is better to show the way, and sometimes it is better to follow." -Lao Tzu
"Whoever knows what is enough Will be happy with his fate." -Lao Tzu
"When there is this abstinence from action, good order is universal." -Lao Tzu
"Live in a good place. Keep your mind deep. Treat others well. Stand by your word. Make fair rules. Do the right thing. Work when it's time." -Lao Tzu
"To know people is wisdom, but to know yourself is enlightenment. To master people takes force, but to master yourself takes strength. To know contentment is wealth, and to live with strength resolve. To never leave whatever you are is to abide, and to die without getting lost - that is to live on and on." -Lao Tzu
"There was something undifferentiated and yet complete which existed before heaven and earthsoundless and formless, it depends on nothing and does not change. It operates everywhere and is free from danger. It may be considered the mother of the universe." -Lao Tzu
"Their work was done and their undertakings were successful, while the people all said, 'We are as we are, of ourselves!" -Lao Tzu
"he who goes on acting with energy has a (firm) will." -Lao Tzu
"One who knows does not say it; one who says does not know it. Block the openings, Shut the doors, Soften the glare, Follow along old wheel tracks; Blunt the point, Untangle the knots. This is known as dark identity. Thus you cannot get close to it, nor can you keep it at arms length; you cannot bestow benefit on it, nor can you do it harm; you cannot ennoble it, nor can you debase it. Hence it is the most valued." -Lao Tzu
"Fill your bowl to the brim and it will spill, Keep sharpening your knife and it will be bluntCare about people's approval and you will be their prisoner." -Lao Tzu
"Stand before it and there is no beginning. Follow it and there is no end. Stay with the ancient Tao, Move with the present." -Lao Tzu
"It as non-existent (and not named)." -Lao Tzu
"Quand l'esprit humain, absolument arrêté, est complètement vide et calme, il est un miroir pur et net, capable de mirer l'essence ineffable et innommable du Principe lui-même." -Lao Tzu
"To lead people, walk beside them." -Lao Tzu
"To know non-knowing is optimalto imagine one knowsis affliction of mind" -Lao Tzu
"When one knows that he is his mother's child, and proceeds to guard (the qualities of) the mother that belong to him, to the end of his life he will be free from all peril." -Lao Tzu
"Heaven which by it is bright and pure;" -Lao Tzu
"If I were suddenly to become known, and (put into a position to) conduct (a government) according to the Great Tao, what I should be most afraid of would be a boastful display." -Lao Tzu
"Attain complete emptiness,Hold fast to stillness.Understanding the ordinary: Mind opens.Mind opening leads to compassion,Compassion to nobility,Nobility to heavenliness,Heavenliness to TAO. TAO endures. Your body dies.There is no danger." -Lao Tzu
"He who knows much about others may be learned, but he who understands himself is more intelligent. He who controls others may be powerful, but he who has mastered himself is mightier still." -Lao Tzu
"Therefore all in the world delight to exalt him and do not weary of him." -Lao Tzu
"For things sometimes lead and sometimes follow,sometimes sign and sometimes storm,sometimes strengthen and sometimes weaken, sometimes kill and sometimes die." -Lao Tzu
"he who is (ever ready to) speak about it does not know it." -Lao Tzu
"When we can lay hold of the Tao of old to direct the things of the present day, and are able to know it as it was of old in the beginning, this is called (unwinding) the clue of Tao." -Lao Tzu
"This is what is called 'The mysterious Quality' (of the Tao)." -Lao Tzu
"The masters were said to be profound because they show the greatest wisdom when comfortable in Life's mysterious and unknown depths" -Lao Tzu
"The Tao, when brightest seen, seems light to lack;Who progress in it makes, seems drawing back;Its even way is like a rugged track.Its highest virtue from the vale doth rise;Its greatest beauty seems to offend the eyes;And he has most whose lot the least supplies.Its firmest virtue seems but poor and low;Its solid truth seems change to undergo;Its largest square doth yet no corner showA vessel great, it is the slowest made;Loud is its sound, but never word it said;A semblance great, the shadow of a shade." -Lao Tzu
"When you discard arrogance, complexity, and a few other things that get in the way, sooner or later you will discover that simple, childlike, and mysterious secret known to those of the Uncarved Block: Life is Fun." -Lao Tzu
"But I have three precious things which I prize and hold fast." -Lao Tzu
"Earth rendered thereby firm and sure;" -Lao Tzu
"This is called 'the Mysterious Agreement." -Lao Tzu
"When the people are too foolish to recognize danger,  disaster will surely come." -Lao Tzu
"There is no calamity greater than lavish desires.There is no greater guilt than discontentment.And there is no greater disaster than greed." -Lao Tzu
"he who devotes himself to the Tao (seeks) from day to day to diminish (his doing)." -Lao Tzu
"That which is meddling, touching everything," -Lao Tzu
"He who stands on tiptoe doesn't stand firm. He who rushes ahead doesn't go far. He who tries to shine dims his own light. He who defines himself can't know who he really is. He who has power over others can't empower himself. He who clings to his work will create nothing that endures. If you want to accord with the Tao, just do your job, then let go." -Lao Tzu
"To illustrate from the case of all females:--the female always overcomes the male by her stillness." -Lao Tzu
"The ten thousand things rise and fall while the self watches their return." -Lao Tzu
"Fishes should not be taken from the deep; instruments for the profit of a state should not be shown to the people." -Lao Tzu
"Material and infinite are inseparableAppreciating their interconnectednessis the gateway to understanding" -Lao Tzu
"When the people have many weapons, the nation grows more benighted." -Lao Tzu
"With a wall all aroundA clay bowl is moulded;But the use of the bowlWill depend on the partOf the bowl that is void." -Lao Tzu
"When two great forces oppose each other, the victory will go to the one that knows how to yield." -Lao Tzu
"The world's most difficult affairsbegin in easiness.The world's greatest affairsalways begin in the small." -Lao Tzu
"Nothing is softer or more flexible than water, yet nothing can resist it." -Lao Tzu
"if I had not the body, what great calamity could come to me?" -Lao Tzu
"If you know when to stop, you'll suffer no harm. And in this way you can last a very long time." -Lao Tzu
"Truth is revealed to the one who detaches himself from the world, not tempted by anything in it and not distracted by any of its phenomena." -Lao Tzu
"A good traveler has no fixed plans, and is not intent on arriving. A good artist lets their intuition take them wherever it wants to." -Lao Tzu
"To know and to think we know not, is the crown. Not to know and to think we know, is the affliction." -Lao Tzu
"Having arrived at this point of non-action, there is nothing which he does not do." -Lao Tzu
"But I have heard that he who is skilful in managing the life entrusted to him for a time travels on the land without having to shun rhinoceros or tiger, and enters a host without having to avoid buff coat or sharp weapon." -Lao Tzu
"The great Tao is universal like a flood… All creatures depend on it, and it denies nothing to anyone. It does its work, but it makes no claims for itself. It clothes and feeds all, but it does not lord it over them." -Lao Tzu
"To recognize your insignificance is empowering." -Lao Tzu
"When beauty is defined, illusions of non-beauty manifestWhen goodness is identified, badness becomes an option" -Lao Tzu
"Be square but do not cut; be sharp but do not stab; be straight forward but do not unrestrained; be bright but do not dazzle." -Lao Tzu
"the skilful binder uses no strings or knots, while to unloose what he has bound will be impossible." -Lao Tzu
"Used gently, and without the touch of pain." -Lao Tzu
"The softest thing in the world dashes against and overcomes the hardest; that which has no (substantial) existence enters where there is no crevice." -Lao Tzu
"Let go of rousing speechand identification with thoughtsUntil your endyou will never be jaded" -Lao Tzu
"One who speaks does not know One who knows does not speak" -Lao Tzu
"In dwelling, live close to the ground. In thinking, keep to the simple. In conflict, be fair and generous. In governing, don't try to control. In work, do what you enjoy." -Lao Tzu
"The Master stays behind; that is why she is ahead. She is detached from all things; that is why she is one with them. Because she has let go of herself, she is perfectly fulfilled." -Lao Tzu
"When superior people hear guidance, they carry it out diligently and ably. When mediocre people hear guidance, it seems vague and uncertain. When lesser people hear guidance, they laugh." -Lao Tzu
"If you follow the Tao, you will understand where to stop.  Knowing where to stop, you will be free from danger." -Lao Tzu
"the skilful closer needs no bolts or bars, while to open what he has shut will be impossible;" -Lao Tzu
"Hence (its way) is near to (that of) the Tao." -Lao Tzu
"The five colors make man's eyes blind, the five notes make his ears deaf, the five tastes injure his palate." -Lao Tzu
"gave their (right) names to things without seeing them;" -Lao Tzu
"Its gate, from which at first they issued forth," -Lao Tzu
"When people see some things as beautiful, other things become ugly. When people see some things as good, other things become bad. Being and non-being create each other." -Lao Tzu
"We look at it, and we do not see it, and we name it 'the Equable." -Lao Tzu
"Those who understand the way do not talk about it, and those who talk about the way do not understand it. Therefore the wise person: Closes his mouth, locks his gates, tempers his sharpness, simplifies his problems, softens his glare. Unite yourself with the low – this is the profound harmony. Where there is no attachment, there is liberation from aversion. Where there is no profit, there is liberation from loss. Where there is no honour, there is liberation from disgrace. Therefore this is the most cherished way on earth." -Lao Tzu
"The (state of) vacancy should be brought to the utmost degree, and that of stillness guarded with unwearying vigour." -Lao Tzu
"To consider this desirable would be to delight in the slaughter of men; and he who delights in the slaughter of men cannot get his will in the kingdom." -Lao Tzu
"Why is the sea king of a hundred streams? Because it lies below them. Therefore it is the king of a hundred streams." -Lao Tzu
"Although he may have brilliant prospects to look at, he quietly remains (in his proper place), indifferent to them." -Lao Tzu
"Thus it was that when faith (in the Tao) was deficient (in the rulers) a want of faith in them ensued (in the people)." -Lao Tzu
"From the state of the Uncarved Block comes the ability to enjoy the simple and the quiet, the natural and the plain. Along with that comes the ability to do things spontaneously and have them work, odd as that may appear to others at times. As Piglet put it in Winnie-the-Pooh, 'Pooh hasn't much Brain, but he never comes to any harm. He does silly things and they turn out right." -Lao Tzu
"He who knows others is wise;He who knows himself is enlightened." -Lao Tzu
"there is nothing like moderation." -Lao Tzu
"In dwelling, choose modest quarters, in thinking, value stillness, in dealing with others, be kind, in choosing words, be sincere, in leading, be just, in working, be competent, in acting, choose the correct timing." -Lao Tzu
"Those who do not lose their base endure. Those who die but do not perish have longevity." -Lao Tzu
"The Tao is hidden, and has no name; but it is the Tao which is skilful at imparting (to all things what they need) and making them complete." -Lao Tzu
"The grandest forms of active forceFrom Tao come, their only source.Who can of Tao the nature tell?Our sight it flies, our touch as well.Eluding sight, eluding touch,The forms of things all in it crouch;Eluding touch, eluding sight,There are their semblances, all right.Profound it is, dark and obscure;Things' essences all there endure.Those essences the truth enfoldOf what, when seen, shall then be told.Now it is so; 'twas so of old.Its name--what passes not away;So, in their beautiful array,Things form and never know decay." -Lao Tzu
"If you realize that all things change, there is nothing you will try to hold on to. If you aren't afraid of dying, there is nothing you can't achieve. Trying to control the future is like trying to take the master carpenter's place. When you handle the master carpenter's tools, chances are that you'll cut yourself." -Lao Tzu
"If a country is governed with tolerance, the people are comfortable and honest. If a country is governed with repression, the people are depressed and crafty." -Lao Tzu
"Sometimes you must yield in order to win, and sometimes maintaining a low place leads you to win." -Lao Tzu
"A man can achieve his own happiness only by pursuing the happiness of others, because it is only by forgetting about his own happiness that he can become happy." -Lao Tzu
"The ancients were subtle, mysterious, profound, responsive. The depth of their knowledge is unfathomable. Because it is unfathomable," -Lao Tzu
"Opinion is the barren flower of the Way, the beginning of ignorance." -Lao Tzu
"To live till you dieIs to live long enough" -Lao Tzu
"Use convention to govern a state, use surprise in waging war, use disinterest to take the world. How do I know this is so? When there are many taboos in the world, the people grow poorer and poorer. When the people have many weapons, the nation grows more benighted. When the people are very crafty, weird things arise more and more. The greater the articulation of rules of law, the more brigands and outlaws there are. Therefore a wise rulers says, 'If I contrive nothing, the people will naturally be civilized. If I am fond of tranquility, the people will naturally be upright.  If I am disinterested, the people will naturally become rich.  If I want not to want, the people will naturally be innocent." -Lao Tzu
"Let him keep his mouth open, and (spend his breath) in the promotion of his affairs, and all his life there will be no safety for him." -Lao Tzu
"when he is going to despoil another, he will first have made gifts to him:--" -Lao Tzu
"ruin. To do good, work well, and lie low is the way of the blessing." -Lao Tzu
"However grand and high, would all decay." -Lao Tzu
"This is how they are able to continue and endure." -Lao Tzu
"An integral being knows without going, sees without looking, and accomplishes without doing." -Lao Tzu
"He does not dare (by continuing his operations) to assert and complete his mastery." -Lao Tzu
"If you want to be a great leader,you must learn to follow the Tao.Stop trying to control.Let go of fixed plans and concepts,and the world will govern itself.The more prohibitions you have,the less virtuous people will be.The more weapons you have,the less secure people will be.The more subsidies you have,the less self-reliant people will be.Therefore the Master says:I let go of the law,and people become honest.I let go of economics,and people become prosperous.I let go of religion,and people become serene.I let go of all desire for the common good,and the good becomes common as grass." -Lao Tzu
"The sage does not accumulate (for himself). The more that he expends for others, the more does he possess of his own; the more that he gives to others, the more does he have himself." -Lao Tzu
"Who thinks his great achievements poorShall find his vigour long endure.Of greatest fulness, deemed a void,Exhaustion ne'er shall stem the tide.Do thou what's straight still crooked deem;Thy greatest art still stupid seem,And eloquence a stammering scream." -Lao Tzu
"الأراضى المجاورة، قريبةٌ بحيث إنّ أىّ إنسانٍ، يستطيع سماع نباح الكلاب،و صياح الديكة عبر الطريق. إلا أن الناس هنا، يهرَمون، و يموتون، دون أن يتبادلوا كلمةَ واحدةً مع جيرانهم." -Lao Tzu
"unpretentious like wood that has not been fashioned into anything;" -Lao Tzu
"Always without desire we must be found, If its deep mystery we would sound; But if desire always within us be, Its outer fringe is all that we shall see." -Lao Tzu
"When its work is accomplished, it does not claim the name of having done it." -Lao Tzu
"Passing on, it becomes remote. Having become remote, it returns." -Lao Tzu
"The ancients were subtle, mysterious, profound, responsive. The depth of their knowledge is unfathomable." -Lao Tzu
"Therefore a sage has said, 'I will do nothing (of purpose), and the people will be transformed of themselves;" -Lao Tzu
"Bring out the best in yourself,  and you will bring out the best in others." -Lao Tzu
"Seek not happiness too greedily, and be not fearful of happiness." -Lao Tzu
"The people are difficult to govern because of the (excessive) agency of their superiors (in governing them)." -Lao Tzu
"The ancient Masters were profound and subtle.Their wisdom was unfathomable.There is no way to describe it;all we can describe is their appearance.They were carefulas someone crossing an iced-over stream.Alert as a warrior in enemy territory.Courteous as a guest.Fluid as melting ice.Shapable as a block of wood.Receptive as a valley.Clear as a glass of water.Do you have the patience to waittill your mud settles and the water is clear?Can you remain unmovingtill the right action arises by itself?The Master doesn't seek fulfillment..Not seeking, not expecting,she is present, and can welcome all things." -Lao Tzu
"The wise person leads by remaining in the background." -Lao Tzu
"As you live, so you die" -Lao Tzu
"Shrinking looked they like those who wade through a stream in winter;" -Lao Tzu
"Peaceful tranquility – this is the right way in the world." -Lao Tzu
"And when (one with the highest excellence) does not wrangle (about his low position), no one finds fault with him." -Lao Tzu
"Wild winds never last all morningand fierce rains never last all day." -Lao Tzu
"He who knows others is clever, but he who knows himself is enlightened." -Lao Tzu
"Have few desires." -Lao Tzu
"Therefore the place of what is firm and strong is below, and that of what is soft and weak is above." -Lao Tzu
"Do not shine like jade, instead be humble like a rock." -Lao Tzu
"Your life is a piece of clay; don't let anyone else mold it for you." -Lao Tzu
"He does not make himself seen,therefore he is bright;he does not deem himself to be right,therefore he is illustrious;he does not brag,therefore he has merit;he does not boast,therefore he lasts long.It is only because he does not contendthat no one in the world contends with him.(Daode jing, 22, part.)" -Lao Tzu
"Great talents mature slowly." -Lao Tzu
"When Heaven wants to protect someone does it send an army? No, it protects him with love" -Lao Tzu
"So there are established sayings: Guidance to enlightenment seems nonsensical. Guidance to progress seems backwards. Guidance to equality seems to classify. Higher efficacy seems at a loss. Great purity seems like shame. Broad effectiveness seems insufficient. Constructive effectiveness seems casual. Basic reality seems changeable. A great expanse has no shores. A large container takes a long time to make. Important news is rarely heard." -Lao Tzu
"Therefore the sages got their knowledge without travelling;" -Lao Tzu
"Practice emptiness to the extreme.Keep stillness whole.Myriad things act in concert. I therefore watch their return. All things flourish, and each returns to its root.Return to the root is called Quietude.Quietude is called Way of Life.Way of Life is called Constant.Acting without knowing this constant can be harmful.Understanding this Constant is called receptivity, which is impartial.Impartiality is Kingship.Kingship is Heaven.Heaven is the Tao.Though you lose the body, you do not die." -Lao Tzu
"There is no greater misfortune than not knowing what is enough. There is no greater fault than the desire to possess." -Lao Tzu
"The (method of) correction shall by a turn become distortion, and the good in it shall by a turn become evil." -Lao Tzu
"that of the mind is in abysmal stillness;" -Lao Tzu
"Express yourself completely. Then keep quiet. Be like the forces of nature; When it blows, there is only wind; When it rains, there is only rain; When the clouds pass, the sun shines through." -Lao Tzu
"People are mysterious entities – try to take hold of them and you will only lose them." -Lao Tzu
"Contentment alone is enough Indeed, the bliss of eternity can be found in your contentment" -Lao Tzu
"The Tao that can be described is not the enduring and unchanging Tao." -Lao Tzu
"Where there are more restrictions and prohibitions, there is also more poverty. Where there are many sharp weapons, there is also more chaos. Where the people are full of clever schemes, there are also strange outcomes. Where there are many laws and edicts, there is also an abundance of criminals. Therefore, the wise person: Practices non-action so that the people are naturally transformed. Welcomes quietude so that the people will naturally be civilized. Does not interfere so that the people will naturally be prosperous." -Lao Tzu
"Therefore the sage, while he never does what is great, is able on that account to accomplish the greatest things." -Lao Tzu
"When reconciling great hatred there will some remain. How can it be made good? Therefore the wise man accepts the debit side of the account and does not have to enforce payment from others." -Lao Tzu
"This honouring of the Tao and exalting of its operation is not the result of any ordination, but always a spontaneous tribute." -Lao Tzu
"With that gentleness I can be bold; with that economy I can be liberal; shrinking from taking precedence of others, I can become a vessel of the highest honour." -Lao Tzu
"Thus it is that the Great man abides by what is solid, and eschews what is flimsy; dwells with the fruit and not with the flower." -Lao Tzu
"Not asserted, therefore known, Not boasted of, therefore of worth, Not contentious, so enduring. It's because the wise do not contend, That no one can contend with them." -Lao Tzu
"Plan for the difficult while it is still easy. The greatest things in the world are done while still slight. So wise leaders never do big things; that's how they achieve greatness." -Lao Tzu
"Obscure as muddied water. But, with stillness, muddy waters clear. Can you also act while remaining still?" -Lao Tzu
"Unencumbered by any concept of sin, the Master doesn't see evil as a force to resist, but simply as an opaqueness, a state of self-absorption which is in disharmony with the universal process, so that, as with a dirty window, the light can't shine through. This freedom from moral categories allows him his great compassion for the wicked and the selfish." -Lao Tzu
"Those who speak do not know.Those who know do not speak." -Lao Tzu
"Laozi was an ancient Chinese philosopher. According to Chinese tradition, Laozi lived in the 6th century BC, however many historians contend that Laozi" -Lao Tzu
"We listen to it, and we do not hear it, and we name it 'the Inaudible." -Lao Tzu
"If you realize that all things change, there is nothing you will try to hold on to." -Lao Tzu
"it produces them and does not claim them as its own;" -Lao Tzu
"We meet it and do not see its Front; we follow it, and do not see its Back." -Lao Tzu
"Men resort to him, and receive no hurt, but (find) rest, peace, and the feeling of ease." -Lao Tzu
"We simply need to believe in the power that's within us, and use it. When we do that, and stop imitating others and competing against them, things begin to work for us." -Lao Tzu
"Upon disaster depends good fortune;within good fortune hides disaster.Where will it end?For nothing is certain;what is correct goes astray;what is right goes wrong.Our confusion goes on and on." -Lao Tzu
"Once you face and understand your limitations, you can work with them, instead of having them work against you and get in your way, which is what they do when you ignore them, whether you realize it or not. And then you will find that, in many cases, your limitations can be your strengths." -Lao Tzu
"Any good person who is motivated to attain awareness of the whole truth should follow the Universal Way to calm his mind and harmonize it with all aspects of life." -Lao Tzu
"He who has little can only gain, but gain too much and the way will be lost." -Lao Tzu
"Govern a great nation as you would cook a small fish. Do not overdo it." -Lao Tzu
"With those who are sincerethe sage is sincereWith those who are insincerethe sage is also sincerebecause the way of Tao is sincerity" -Lao Tzu
"He will strike the blow, but will be on his guard against being vain or boastful or arrogant in consequence of it." -Lao Tzu
"Giving birth without possessing, animating without subjecting,fostering without dominating." -Lao Tzu
"The Tao is divine. The Tao is the Eternal.  Death is not to be feared." -Lao Tzu
"المعلمون القدماء نسيج وحدهمدهاةمنتبهون كأنهم يعبرون جدولاً مليئاً بالثلجفي الشتاءحريصون كأنهم رجال يحدق بهم الخطرمهذبون كأنهم ضيوف في زيارةيذعنون كأنهم ثلج على وشك الذوبانبسطاء كأنهم كتلة من الخشب الخاممجدفون كأنهم كهوفمعتمون كأنهم مستنقع طين" -Lao Tzu
"He who stands on his tiptoes does not stand firm; he who stretches his legs does not walk (easily). (So), he who displays himself does not shine; he who asserts his own views is not distinguished; he who vaunts himself does not find his merit acknowledged; he who is self-conceited has no superiority allowed to him." -Lao Tzu
"Know the male, but hold to the female. Imagine a river flowing through a valley, never departing from its original path. Do this and you will return to a state of innocence. Perceive the bright, but hold to the dark. Like a river, let yourself flow with virtue, and set a faultless example for the world. Do this and you will return to a state of perfection. Be aware of honour, but hold to humility. Like a valley, let virtue fill you, sufficient yet everlasting. Do this and you will return to the state of the uncarved block." -Lao Tzu
"It produces them and makes no claim to the possession of them;" -Lao Tzu
"But, through working in harmony with life's circumstances, Taoist understanding changes what others may perceive as negative into something positive." -Lao Tzu
"To know that unchanging rule is to be intelligent; not to know it leads to wild movements and evil issues." -Lao Tzu
"El gran gobernante pasa inadvertido por el pueblo. A éste sucede el que es amado y elogiado por el pueblo. Después, el que es temido. Y finalmente, el despreciado." -Lao Tzu
"منتبهون كأنهم يعبرون جدولاً مليئاً بالثلج في الشتاءحريصون كأنهم رجال يحدق بهم الخطر مهذبون كأنهم ضيوف في زيارة يذعنون كأنهم ثلج على وشك الذوبانبسطاء كأنهم كتلة من الخشب الخام مجدفون كأنهم كهوف معتمون كأنهم مستنقع طين" -Lao Tzu
"When the world's on the Way,they use horses to haul manure.When the world gets off the Way,they breed warhorses on the common.The greatest evil: wanting more.The worst luck: discontent.Greed's the curse of life.To know enough's enoughis enough to know." -Lao Tzu
"And whether a man dispassionatelySees to the core of lifeOr passionatelySees the surfaceThey are essentially the same" -Lao Tzu
"Laozi was an ancient Chinese philosopher. According to Chinese tradition, Laozi lived in the 6th century BC, however many historians contend that Laozi actually lived in the 4th century BC, which was the period of Hundred Schools of Thought and Warring States Period, while others contend he was a mythical figure. Laozi was credited with writing the seminal Taoist work, the Tao Te Ching, which was originally known as the Laozi. Taishang Laojun was a title for Laozi in the Taoist religion. It refers to One of the Three Pure Ones. Source: Wikipedia" -Lao Tzu
"Here are the four fundamentals of true spirituality:  recognize simplicity, cherish purity, reduce your possessions,  diminish your desires." -Lao Tzu
"many historians contend that Laozi actually lived in the 4th century BC, which was the period of Hundred Schools of Thought and Warring States Period, while others contend he was a mythical figure. Laozi was credited with" -Lao Tzu
"Tri nhân giả trí, tự tri giả nhânThắng nhân giả hữu lục, tự thắng giả cường Tri túc giả phúCưỡng hành giả hữu chiBất thất kỳ sở giả cửuTử nhi bất vong giả thọ.Dịch nghĩa: Kẻ biết người là có tríKẻ biết mình là sáng suốt Kẻ thắng người ta là có sứcKẻ tự thắng mình là người mạnh Kẻ tự cảm thấy đủ là kẻ giàu Kẻ cố gắng thực hiện (Đạo) là người có chíKẻ không bỏ mất cái gốc thì lâu dài Kẻ chết mà không mất là thọ." -Lao Tzu
"The wise person treats the good person with goodness, he also treats the bad person with goodness – this is how you become good. The wise person gives the truthful person his trust, he also gives the untruthful his trust – this is how you become trustworthy." -Lao Tzu
"A wheel may have thirty spokes, but its usefulness lies in the empty hub. A jar is formed from clay, but its usefulness lies in the empty center. A room is made from four walls, but its usefulness lies in the space between." -Lao Tzu
"Its admirable words can purchase honor; (its) admirable deeds can raise their performer above others." -Lao Tzu
"To clarify muddy waters, you must hold them still and let things settle.  To glimpse the secret of the Tao, you must keep still and quiet your mind." -Lao Tzu
"Life and death are one thread, the same line viewed from different sides." -Lao Tzu
"Only when the state is in disorder is there a need for patriotism." -Lao Tzu
"It is easy to maintain a situation while it is still secure; It is easy to deal with a situation before symptoms develop; It is easy to break a thing when it is yet brittle; It is easy to dissolve a thing when it is yet minute.Deal with a thing while it is still nothing; Keep a thing in order before disorder sets in.A tree that can fill the span of a man's arms Grows from a downy tip; A terrace nine storeys high Rises from hodfuls of earth; A journey of a thousand miles Starts from beneath one's feet.Whoever does anything to it will ruin it; Whoever lays hold of it will lose it.Therefore the sage, because he does nothing, never ruins anything; And, because he does not lay hold of anything, loses nothing.In their enterprises the people Always ruin them when on the verge of success. Be as careful at the end as at the beginning And there will be no ruined enterprises.Therefore the sage desires not to desire And does not value goods which are hard to come by; Learns to be without learning And makes good the mistakes of the multitude In order to help the myriad creatures to be natural and to refrain from daring to act." -Lao Tzu
"When you are content to be simply yourselfand don't compare or compete,everybody will respect you." -Lao Tzu
"Guidance is creative, efficacy develops, people give shape, implements complete.  That is why all people honor guidance and value efficacy.  The nobility of guidance and the value of efficacy are not granted by anyone, but naturally so of themselves.  Guidance creates, nurtures, develops, matures, brings to fruition, nourishes, sustains, and shelters. It is creative without possessiveness, constructive without conceit, develops without coercion; this is called unobtrusive efficacy." -Lao Tzu
"Cut doors and windowsto make a room.Where the room isn't, there's room for you.So the profit in what isis in the use of what isn't." -Lao Tzu
"To know that there are some things  you cannot know  is wisdom." -Lao Tzu
"Before the birth of all things, there existed an undifferentiated whole. A solitary void:  unchanging, yet operating everywhere, without exhaustion. It is therefore considered the source of everything. I do not know its true name, although some call it Tao. If compelled to characterize it, I would simply call it great. For to be great implies that it is far-reaching, to be far-reaching implies distance, and to be distant implies returning to the source. Thus the Tao is great, Heaven is great, Earth is great, the wise person is also great. In the universe there are four great ones, and the wise person is one of them. The wise person follows the laws of Earth, Earth follows the laws of Heaven, and Heaven follows the law of Tao. The Tao, with nothing to follow, is natural unto itself." -Lao Tzu
"Therefore the Tao is great;" -Lao Tzu
"True mastery can be gained by letting things go their own way. It cannot be gained by interfering" -Lao Tzu
"Si tu donnes un poisson à un homme, il mangera un jour. Si tu lui apprends à pêcher, il mangera toujours." -Lao Tzu
"A man is born into certain relationships and as a result has certain duties. For instance, he has a duty of loyalty to his lord, a filial duty to his parents, a duty to help his friends, and a duty of common humanity towards his fellow beings." -Lao Tzu
"People usually fail when they are on the verge of success. So give as much care to the end as to the beginning; Then there will be no failure." -Lao Tzu
"Tao ‘is' before wordsand before deeds" -Lao Tzu
"I will be fond of keeping still, and the people will of themselves become correct." -Lao Tzu
"Когда все в Поднебесной узнают, что прекрасное является прекрасным,появляется и безобразное. Когда все узнают, что доброе является добром, возникает и зло. Поэтому бытие и небытие порождают друг друга, трудное и легкое создают друг друга, длинное и короткое взаимно соотносятся, высокое и низкое взаимно определяются, звуки, сливаясь, приходят в гармонию,предыдущее и последующее следуют друг за другом. Поэтому совершенномудрый, совершая дела, предпочитает недеяние; осуществляяучение, не прибегает к словам; вызывая изменения вещей, [он] не осуществляет их сам; создавая, не обладает [тем, что создано]; приводя в движение, не прилагает к этому усилий; успешно завершая [что-либо], негордится. Поскольку он не гордится, его заслуги не могут быть отброшены." -Lao Tzu
"All in the world know the beauty of the beautiful, and in doing this they have what ugliness is; they all know the skill of the skillful, and in doing this they have what the want of skill is. So it is that existence and non-existence give birth the one to the other; that difficulty and ease produce the one the other; that length and shortness fashion out the one the figure of the other; that height and lowness arise from the contrast of the one with the other; that the musical notes and tones become harmonious through the relation of one with another; and that being before and behind give the idea of one following another. Therefore the enlightened security guard manages affairs without doing anything. All things spring up, and there is not one which declines to show itself; they grow, and there is no claim made for their ownership; they go through their processes, and there is no expectation. The work is accomplished, and there is no resting in it. The work is done, but how no one can see; 'Tis this that makes the power not cease to be" -Lao Tzu
"In this way though he has his place above them, men do not feel his weight, nor though he has his place before them, do they feel it an injury to them." -Lao Tzu
"Failure is the foundation of success, and the means by which it is achieved. Success is the lurking-place of failure; but who can tell when the turning-point will come?" -Lao Tzu
"Time is a created thing. To say ‘I don't have time,' is like saying, ‘I don't want to." -Lao Tzu
"He who acts (with an ulterior purpose) does harm; he who takes hold of a thing (in the same way) loses his hold." -Lao Tzu
"that the musical notes and tones become harmonious through the relation of one with another; and that being before and behind give the idea of one following another." -Lao Tzu
"Those who speak do not know. Those who know do not speak." -Lao Tzu
"He who conquers others is strong;He who conquers himself is mighty." -Lao Tzu
"The Legendary Emperor Shun asked one of his Ministers: 'Can one Possess the Tao?' 'Your own body is not your Possession. How can you Possess the Tao?' 'If my own body is not mine, whose is it?' 'It is the Form lent you by Heaven and Earth. Your Life is not your Possession. It is a Harmony granted you for a time by Heaven and Earth. Your Life-Destiny is not your Possession. It is a Flow granted you for a time by Heaven and Earth. Your children and grandchildren are not your Possessions. Heaven and Earth have lent them to you to be cast off as an insect sheds its skin. You are the Breath-Energy of Heaven and Earth. How can you ever Possess that?" -Lao Tzu
"Thus the Master is available to all people and doesn't reject anyone. He is ready to use all situations and doesn't waste anything. This is called embodying the light. What is a good man but a bad man's teacher? What is a bad man but a good man's job? If you don't understand this, you will get lost, however intelligent you are. It is the great secret." -Lao Tzu
"When people devote themselves to somethingthey always ruin it on the verge of success.Finish with the same care you took in beginningand you'll avoid ruining things." -Lao Tzu
"Saberse ignorante es conocimiento." -Lao Tzu
"Those who possessed in a lower degree those attributes (sought how) not to lose them, and therefore they did not possess them (in fullest measure)." -Lao Tzu
"The work is done, but how no one can see;'Tis this that makes the power not cease to be." -Lao Tzu
"Holding a cup and overfilling it Cannot be as good as stopping short Pounding a blade and sharpening it Cannot be kept for long   Gold and jade fill up the room No one is able to protect them Wealth and position bring arrogance And leave disasters upon oneself   When achievement is completed, fame is attained Withdraw oneself This is the Tao of Heaven" -Lao Tzu
"The thirty spokes unite in the one nave; but it is on the empty space (for the axle), that the use of the wheel depends. Clay is fashioned into vessels; but it is on their empty hollowness, that their use depends. The door and windows are cut out (from the walls) to form an apartment; but it is on the empty space (within), that its use depends. Therefore, what has a (positive) existence serves for profitable adaptation, and what has not that for (actual) usefulness." -Lao Tzu
"The people starve because those in authority over them devour too many taxes; that is why they starve." -Lao Tzu
"Following the Universal Way means practicing selflessness and extending virtue to the world unconditionally. In this way one not only eliminates the heavy contamination accumulated throughout many lifetimes but may also bring about the possibility of restoring one's original divine nature and become an integral being of the multi-universe." -Lao Tzu
"Will work but ill, and disappointment bring." -Lao Tzu
"Stop trying to imitate what the sages have done. That's past, and though it might have been appropriate at the time, that time is over. The present is alive. Don't use what's dead as a guide to what's alive." -Lao Tzu
"Darum: Wer LEBEN hat,hält sich an seine Pflicht,wer kein LEBEN hat,hält sich an sein Recht" -Lao Tzu
"The efficiency of Wu Wei is like that of water flowing over and around the rocks in its path--not the mechanical, straight-line approach that usually ends up short-circuiting natural laws, but one that evolves from an inner sensitivity to the natural rhythm of things." -Lao Tzu
"One gains by losing and loses by gaining." -Lao Tzu
"Where there is lack of faith, There is a lack of respect. Employ reticence, and care with words. When the work is done and the task complete The people will say: ‘It just happened." -Lao Tzu
"it carries them through their processes and does not vaunt its ability in doing so;" -Lao Tzu
"Of every ten three are ministers of life (to themselves); and three are ministers of death." -Lao Tzu
"no fault greater than the wish to be getting." -Lao Tzu
"Self is realized through selflessness." -Lao Tzu
"Jade is praised as precious,but its strength is being stone." -Lao Tzu
"Therefore a wise prince, marching the whole day, does not go far from his baggage waggons." -Lao Tzu
"Manifest plainness and embrace the genuine; lessen self-interest and make few your desires." -Lao Tzu
"HUMILITY The universe is eternal, and earth is lasting. The reason they are eternal and lasting  is that they do not exist for themselves. That is why they endure. The wise humble themselves--  and because of their humility, they are worthy of praise. They put others first,  and so become great. They are not focused on outcomes or achievements;  therefore they always succeed." -Lao Tzu
"Nichts auf der Welt ist so weich und nachgiebig wie das Wasser. Und doch bezwingt es das Harte und Starke." -Lao Tzu
"What others fear becomes our wilderness of fear. O, it is endless!" -Lao Tzu
"The grace of Taoand divine nature (Te)are not orderedbut eternal spontaneousaction of the One" -Lao Tzu
"Only those who do not use life as a reason for artificialities are intelligently valuing life." -Lao Tzu
"Let him keep his mouth closed, and shut up the portals (of his nostrils), and all his life he will be exempt from laborious exertion." -Lao Tzu
"Watch your thoughts; they become words.Watch your words; they become actions.Watch your actions; they become habits.Watch your habits; they become character.Watch your character; it becomes your destiny." -Lao Tzu
"Comprender a los demás es sabio, comprenderse a uno mismo es estar iluminado. El que vence a los otros es fuerte, pero el que se vence a sí mismo es poderoso." -Lao Tzu
"Very few are aware of the highest. Then comes that which they know and love," -Lao Tzu
"The gentle outlast the strong The obscure outlast the obvious Hence, a fish that ventures from deep water is soon snagged by a net A country that reveals its strength is soon conquered by an enemy" -Lao Tzu
"Truthful words are not beautiful; beautiful words are not truthful. Good words are not persuasive; persuasive words are not good. He who knows has no wide learning; he who has wide learning does not know." -Lao Tzu
"Thus it is that dignity finds its (firm) root in its (previous) meanness, and what is lofty finds its stability in the lowness (from which it rises)." -Lao Tzu
"it brings them to maturity and exercises no control over them;--" -Lao Tzu
"Practice not-doing and everything will fall into place." -Lao Tzu
"Si un hombre quiere darle forma al mundo, modelarlo a su capricho, difícilmente lo conseguirá. El mundo es un jarro sagrado que no se puede manipular ni retocar. Quien trata de hacerlo, lo deforma. Quien lo aferra, lo pierde. Por eso el sabio no intenta modelarlo, luego no lo deforma." -Lao Tzu
"En el centro de tu ser tienes la respuesta; sabes quién eres y sabes qué quieres'." -Lao Tzu
"The one who detaches and sees from afar sees clearly." -Lao Tzu
"To want to rule the world is to want to pamper this body. When you don't prize this body, you don't want to rule the world." -Lao Tzu
"Therefore the wise are sharp but not cutting,Pointed but not piercing,Straightforward but not unrestrained,Brilliant but not blinding." -Lao Tzu
"He who knows he has enough, is rich" -Lao Tzu
"If you are depressed, you are living in the past. If you are anxious, you are living in the future. If you are at peace, you are living in the present" -Lao Tzu
"A great nation is like a great man...He thinks of his enemy as the shadow that he himself casts." -Lao Tzu
"One who practices virtue and selflessness should not hold any particular idea in his mind about how to fulfill his virtue, for virtue is the very nature of one's being." -Lao Tzu
"Possessed of the Tao, he endures long; and to the end of his bodily life, is exempt from all danger of decay." -Lao Tzu
"Understanding the ordinary: Mind opens. Mind opening leads to compassion, Compassion to nobility, Nobility to heavenliness, Heavenliness to TAO." -Lao Tzu
"He who possesses virtue in abundance may be compared to an infant." -Lao Tzu
"He who, being a man, remains a woman, becomes a universal channel. Eternal virtue will flow through him. He will become a child again." -Lao Tzu
"Good people do not quarrel. Quarrelsome people are not good." -Lao Tzu
"Knowing others is wisdom, knowing yourselfis Enlightenment." -Lao Tzu
"This world has no need for weapons,Which soon turn on themselves.Where armies camp, nettles grow;After each war, years of famine.The most fruitful outcomeDoes not depend on force,But succeeds without arroganceWithout hostilityWithout prideWithout resistanceWithout violence." -Lao Tzu
"Mold clay into a bowl. The empty space makes it useful." -Lao Tzu
"What does it mean, 'Be wary of both honor and disgrace'? Honor is founded on disgrace and disgrace is rooted in honor Both should be avoided Both bind a man to this world That's why it says, 'Be wary of both honor and disgrace" -Lao Tzu
"The Tao that can be told is not the eternal Tao. The name that can be named is not the eternal name." -Lao Tzu
"Turning back is how the way moves; Weakness is the means-the way employs." -Lao Tzu
"If you are depressed, you are living in the past; if you are anxious, you are living in the future; if you are at peace, you are living in the present." -Lao Tzu
"The Tao is like an empty container: it can never be emptied and can never be filled. Infinitely deep, it is the source of all things." -Lao Tzu
"If you look to others for fulfillment, you will never truly be fulfilled." -Lao Tzu
"حيثما تعسكر القوات ينبت شجر الشوكوفي أعقاب الجيوش الجرارة يذوي الحصاداذا كان لابد من الحرب فعجل في إنهائهاعجل في إنهائها ولاتتفاخرعجل في إنهائها ولاتتبجحعجل في إنهائها ولاتتغطرسعجل في إنهائها ولاتروّع الناس" -Lao Tzu
"To be in favor or disgraceis to live in fear.To take the body seriouslyis to admit one can suffer." -Lao Tzu
"So, he who displays himself does not shine; he who asserts his own views is not distinguished; he who vaunts himself does not find his merit acknowledged; he who is self-conceited has no superiority allowed to him." -Lao Tzu
"For a house,the good thing is level ground.In thinking,depth is good.The good of giving is magnanimity;of speaking, honesty;of government, order.The good of work is skill,and of action, timing.No competition,so no blame." -Lao Tzu
"Trying to control the world?I see you won't succeed.The world is a spiritual vesselAnd cannot be controlled.Those who control, fail.Those who grasp, lose.Some go forth, some are led,Some weep, some blow flutesSome become strong, some superfluous,Some oppress, some destroyed.Therefore the Sage,Casts off extremes,Casts off excess,Casts off extravagance." -Lao Tzu
"Knowing others is intelligent. Knowing yourself is enlightened." -Lao Tzu
"DAILY AWARENESS POEMAlways we hope someone else has the answer. Some other place will be better, some other time it will all turn out. This is it.No one else has the answer. No other place will be better, and it has already turned out.At the center of your beingyou have the answer;you know who you areand you know what you want.There is no needto run outsidefor better seeing. Nor to peer from a window.Rather abide at the center of your being;for the more you leave it the less you learn.Search your heartand seethe way to do is to be." -Lao Tzu
"It is unnatural to walk on tiptoe.  Try to elevate yourself above others,  and you will soon fall." -Lao Tzu
"The earth and the stars do not take sides-- they are impartial. They regard all individuals as insignificant, as though they were playthings made of straw. The wise are also impartial; to them all people are equal and alike." -Lao Tzu
"The wise attend to the inner truth of things  and are not fooled by outward appearances. They ignore matter and seek the spirit." -Lao Tzu
"Need little, want less. Forget the rules. Be untroubled." -Lao Tzu
"Amidst the worldly comings and goings, observe how endings become beginnings." -Lao Tzu
"The partial becomes complete; the crooked, straight; the empty, full; the worn out, new. He whose (desires) are few gets them; he whose (desires) are many goes astray." -Lao Tzu
"Humanity is the child of earth; Earth is the child of the universe; The universe is the child of the Tao." -Lao Tzu
"Were I sufficiently wise I would follow the Great Way and only fear going astray the Great Way is smooth but people love byways their palaces are spotless but their fields are overgrown and their granaries are empty they wear fine clothes and carry sharp swords they tire of food and drink and possess more than they need this is called robbery and robbery is not the Way" -Lao Tzu
"The sage has no mind of his own.He is aware of the needs of others.I am good to people who are good.I am also good to people who are not good.Because Virtue is goodness.I have faith in people who are faithful.I also have faith in people who are not faithful.Because Virtue is faithfulness.The sage is shy and humble – to the world he seems confusing.Others look to him and listen.He behaves like a little child." -Lao Tzu
"If we could renounce our sageness and discard our wisdom, it would be better for the people a hundredfold. If we could renounce our benevolence and discard our righteousness, the people would again become filial and kindly. If we could renounce our artful contrivances and discard our (scheming for) gain, there would be no thieves nor robbers." -Lao Tzu
"Solo cuando nos cansamos de nuestra enfermedad, dejamos de estar enfermos." -Lao Tzu
"Weapons are the tools of fear; a decent man will avoid them except in the direst necessity and, if compelled, will use them only with the utmost restraint. Peace is his highest value. If the peace has been shattered, how can he be content? His enemies are not demons, but human beings like himself. He doesn't wish them personal harm. Nor does he rejoice in victory. How could he rejoice in victory and delight in the slaughter of men?" -Lao Tzu
"故 常 無 ，欲 以 觀 其 妙 ﹔常 有 ，欲 以 觀 其 徼" -Lao Tzu
"The wise recognize the limits of their knowledge;  the foolish think they know everything." -Lao Tzu
"Everybody eventually returns to an equilibrium state, the harder you push the harder the fall" -Lao Tzu
"He who knows (the Tao) does not (care to) speak (about it); he who is (ever ready to) speak about it does not know it." -Lao Tzu
"Those who possess moderation will endure;   they have deep roots and strong stems. This is the secret to a long life,  and lasting insight into the Tao." -Lao Tzu
"While the Clear mind listens to a bird singing, the Stuffed-Full-of-Knowledge-and-Cleverness mind wonders what kind of bird is singing." -Lao Tzu
"Therefore a sage has said, 'I will do nothing (of purpose), and the people will be transformed of themselves; I will be fond of keeping still, and the people will of themselves become correct." -Lao Tzu
"I've problems because I have a body. When I've no body where's my problem?" -Lao Tzu
"The Master does his joband then stops.He understands that the universeis forever out of control,and that trying to dominate eventsgoes against the current of the Tao.Because he believes in himself,he doesn't try to convince others.Because he is content with himself,he doesn't need others' approval.Because he accepts himself,the whole world accepts him." -Lao Tzu
"The first responsibility of a leader is to define reality. The last is to say thank you. In between, the leader is a servant. --Max DePree" -Lao Tzu
"If you continue filling a pail after it is full, the water will be wasted. If you continue grinding an axe after it is sharp,  the edge will wear away. Who can protect a house full of gold and jewels?  Excessive fortune brings about its own misfortune. To win true merit--to earn a good reputation-- you must be prudent. This is the way of the Tao." -Lao Tzu
"The Tao is by nature immaterial, yet all the world calls it great. It is because the Tao does not put on appearances  that it is great." -Lao Tzu
"Go to the people. Learn from them. Live with them. Love them. Start with what they know. Build with what they have. But the best of leaders when the job is done, when the task is accomplished, the people will all say we have done it ourselves." -Lao Tzu
"A tree too big to embraceIs born from a slender shoot.A nine-storey towerRises from a pile of earth.A thousand-mile journeyBegins with a single step." -Lao Tzu
"Those who know the truth do not argue about it; those who argue do not know the truth." -Lao Tzu
"The man who is content with what he has  is not in danger of loss. The man who knows when to stop is free to go on." -Lao Tzu
"Pon en desuso la sagacidad y la búsqueda del beneficio y el robo y la estafa dejarán de tener lugar entre los tuyos." -Lao Tzu
"When The Best Leader's Work Is Done, The People Say, 'We Did It Ourselves!" -Lao Tzu
"To lead people, you must follow behind." -Lao Tzu
"Those who steal from others impoverish themselves;  those who give to others become rich. Those who fight do not win;  those who win do not fight. This is the way of the Tao." -Lao Tzu
"Not to desire material things is to know the freedom of spirituality;" -Lao Tzu
"He who is attached to things will suffermuch.He who saves will suffer heavy loss.A contented man is neverdisappointed.He who knows when to stop does notfind himself in trouble.He will stay forever safe." -Lao Tzu
"when the job is done, the task accomplished, the people will say: We have done it ourselves." -Lao Tzu
"Always without desire we must be found,If its deep mystery we would sound;But if desire always within us be,Its outer fringe is all that we shall see." -Lao Tzu
"The essence of the principle of the Uncarved Block is that things in their original simplicity contain their own natural power, power that is easily spoiled and lost when that simplicity is changed." -Lao Tzu
"Having to live on, one knows better than to value life too much." -Lao Tzu
"You might say that while Rabbit's little routine is that of Knowledge for the sake of Being Clever, and while Owl's is that of Knowledge for the sake of Appearing Wise, Eeyore's is Knowledge for the sake of Complaining About Something." -Lao Tzu
"The Master does nothing; yet he leaves nothing undone." -Lao Tzu
"Daoist naming personalizes a relationship and, abjuring any temptation to fix what is referenced, instead understands the name as a shared ground of growing intimacy. Such naming is presentational rather than just representational, normative rather than just descriptive, perlocutionary rather than just locutionary, a doing and a knowing rather than just a saying." -Lao Tzu
"The wise are not conspicuous in their actions  or given to much talking. When troubles arise, they are not irritated. They produce, but do not hoard; They act, but expect no praise; They build, but do not dwell therein. And because they do not dwell therein, They never depart." -Lao Tzu
"Touch ultimate emptiness,Hold steady and still.All things work together:I have watched them reverting,And have seen how they flourishAnd return again, each to his roots.This, I say, is the stillness:A retreat to one's roots;Or better yet, returnTo the will of God,Which is, I say, to constancy.The knowledge of constancyI call enlightenment and sayThat not to know itIs blindness that works evil.But when you knowWhat eternally is so,You have statureAnd stature means righteousnessAnd righteousness is kinglyAnd kingliness divineAnd divinity is the WayWhich is final.Then, though you die,You shall not perish." -Lao Tzu
"Bir insanın ne kadar tabusu varsa o kadar mutsuzdur" -Lao Tzu
"A living being is tender and flexible; a corpse is hard and stiff. It is the same with everything-- leaves and grasses are tender and delicate,  but when they die they become rigid and dry. Those who are hard and inflexible  belong to death's domain;  but the gentle and flexible belong to life." -Lao Tzu
"There is no greater illusion than fear,no greater wrong than preparing to defend yourself,no greater misfortune than having an enemy." -Lao Tzu
"The wise do not appear great among others;  and so they reveal their true greatness." -Lao Tzu
"He who knows others is clever, but he who knows himself is enlightened. He who overcomes others is strong, but he who overcomes himself is mightier still. He is rich who knows when he has enough. He who acts with energy has strength of purpose. He who moves not from his proper place is long-lasting. He who dies, but perishes not, enjoys true longevity." -Lao Tzu
"Even the best weapon is an unhappy tool, hateful to living things. So the follower of the Way stays away from it." -Lao Tzu
"Everything that lives has a physical body,  but the value of a life is measured by the soul." -Lao Tzu
"I have three treasures which I hold and keep.The first is mercy; the second is economy;The third is daring not to be ahead of others.Nowadays men shun mercy, but try to be brave;They abandon economy, but try to be generous;They do not believe in humility, but always try to be first. This is certain death." -Lao Tzu
"Conquering others takes force. Conquering yourself is true strength. Knowing what is enough is wealth." -Lao Tzu
"Tell me and I'll listen, Show me and I'll watchLet me experience and I'll learn" -Lao Tzu
"Connected to everything but attached to nothing. Attachment is rooted in fear. You lose your fear of loss when you realize you're already whole." -Lao Tzu
"If you would be at peace, beware of great knowledge." -Lao Tzu
"Hyvällä matkailijalla ei ole pysyviä suunnitelmia eikä hän yritä päästä perille." -Lao Tzu
"Matter is necessary to give form,  but the value of reality lies in its immateriality" -Lao Tzu
"Tao Te Ching – Verse 78Nothing in the worldis as soft and yielding as water.Yet for dissolving the hard and inflexible,nothing can surpass it.The soft overcomes the hard;the gentle overcomes the rigid.Everyone knows this is true,but few can put it into practice.Therefore the Master remainsserene in the midst of sorrow.Evil cannot enter his heart.Because he has given up helping,he is people's greatest help.True words seem paradoxical.(translation by Stephen Mitchell, 1995)" -Lao Tzu
"Simplicity without a name Is free from all external aim. With no desire, at rest and still, All things go right as of their will." -Lao Tzu
"It is the way of the Tao to act without (thinking of) acting; to conduct affairs without (feeling the) trouble of them; to taste without discerning any flavor; to consider what is small as great, and a few as many; and to recompense injury with kindness." -Lao Tzu
"The Way of heaven takes away where there's abundanceand restores where there's want,but the Way of humankind isn't like that:it takes away where there's wantand gives where there's abundance.(Hinton translation)" -Lao Tzu
"Wanting to reform the world without discovering one's true self is like trying to cover the world with leather to avoid the pain of walking on stones and thorns. It is much simpler to wear shoes." -Lao Tzu
"Who can (make) the muddy water (clear)? Let it be still, and it will gradually become clear. Who can secure the condition of rest?Let movement go on, and the condition of rest will gradually arise. They who preserve this method of the Tao do not wish to be full (of themselves)." -Lao Tzu
"Or fame or life,Which do you hold more dear?Or life or wealth,To which would you adhere?Keep life and lose those other things;Keep them and lose your life:-- which bringsSorrow and pain more near?" -Lao Tzu
"It is virtuous to keep one's obligations, but the wise go beyond this--  they do not insist on their rights, but forgive the debts of those who owe them. They know that the Tao will reward them  for staying out of court." -Lao Tzu
"When one gives undivided attention to the (vital) breath, and brings it to the utmost degree of pliancy, he can become as a (tender) babe. When he has cleansed away the most mysterious sights (of his imagination), he can become without a flaw." -Lao Tzu
"Scholars of the highest class, when they hear about the Tao, earnestly carry it into practice. Scholars of the middle class, when they have heard about it, seem now to keep it and now to lose it. Scholars of the lowest class, when they have heard about it, laugh greatly at it. If it were not (thus) laughed at, it would not be fit to be the Tao" -Lao Tzu
"Quien conoce a su pueblo es aplicado. Quien se conoce a sí mismo es sabio. Quien domina al otro es fuerte. Quien se domina a sí mismo es poderoso." -Lao Tzu
"Something can be beautiful, if something else is ugly.Someone can be good, if someone else is bad." -Lao Tzu
"If any one should wish to get the kingdom for himself, and to effect this by what he does, I see that he will not succeed. The kingdom is a spirit-like thing, and cannot be got by active doing. He who would so win it destroys it; he who would hold it in his grasp loses it." -Lao Tzu
"Measure yourself the way you measure others. Measure others the way you measure your village. Measure your village the way you measure your country. Measure your country the way you measure the Tao. And measure the Tao by what is in you." -Lao Tzu
"Pomp is contrary to the Tao." -Lao Tzu
"If you are compassionate,  you can be truly courageous;  if you are economical, you can be truly generous;  if you are humble, you can be truly helpful. If you are brave but lack compassion,  are generous but lack economy, and try to help others but lack humility,  you've lost the way." -Lao Tzu
"Heaven and Earth are not benevolent; They treat the myriad creatures as straw dogs.17 Sages are not benevolent; They treat the people as straw dogs." -Lao Tzu
"You render the small vast and few many,use integrity to repay hatred,see the complexity in simplicity,find the vast in the minute." -Lao Tzu
"If you aren't free of yourselfhow will you ever become yourself?- (David Hinton translation)" -Lao Tzu
"Those who know others are intelligent; those who understand themselves are enlightened." -Lao Tzu
"If you are depressed, you are living in the past; if you are anxious, you are living in the present; if you are at peace, you are living in the present." -Lao Tzu
"Quien valora lo que tiene y se conforma, es un hombre rico." -Lao Tzu
"If people were Superior to Animals, they'd take better care of the world,' said Pooh." -Lao Tzu
"Heaven's Tao is impartial,yet those who follow its compassionate waywill always be nourished" -Lao Tzu
"They cannot be moved by praise or blame; they cannot be changed by profit or loss;  they cannot be honored or humiliated. And so the wise are truly honored." -Lao Tzu
"The valley spirit, undyingIs called the Mystic FemaleThe gateway of the Mystic FemaleIs called the root of Heaven and EarthIt flows continuously, barely perceptibleWhen utilized, it is never exhausted" -Lao Tzu
"When beauty is only a masquerade, it is actually ugliness. Just as goodness, if it is not sincere, is not really goodness." -Lao Tzu
"Not to lose one's place means to accept one's lot - not to force anything by excessive action, not to try to reach full development before its due time" -Lao Tzu
"The wise are Children Who Know. Their minds have been emptied of the countless minute somethings of small-learning, and filled with the wisdom of the Great Nothing, the Way of the Universe." -Lao Tzu
"He who overcomes by violence will be overcome by violence" -Lao Tzu
"In thinking, keep to the simple. In conflict, be fair and generous. In governing, don't try to control. In work, do what you enjoy. In family life, be completely present. When you are content to be simply yourself and don't compare or compete, everybody will respect you." -Lao Tzu
"Some say that my teaching is nonsense." -Lao Tzu
"Clay is molded to make a vessel, but the utility of the vessel lies in the space where there is nothing. Thus, taking advantage of what is, we recognize the utility of what is not." -Lao Tzu
"The most yielding thing in the world will overcome the most rigid The most empty thing in the world will overcome the most full From this comes a lesson-- Stillness benefits more than action Silence benefits more than words Rare indeed are those who are still Rare indeed are those who are silent And so I say, Rare indeed are those who obtain the bounty of this world" -Lao Tzu
"Know others by knowing yourself. Overcome others by overcoming yourself. Understanding what is enough is enough. Presence is perseverance. Coming to stillness is forging ahead. Find life by accepting death." -Lao Tzu
"Matter is necessary to give form,  but the value of reality lies in its immateriality. Everything that lives has a physical body,  but the value of a life is measured by the soul." -Lao Tzu
"People who are goodI treat well.People who are not goodI also treat well. - Chapter 49" -Lao Tzu
"Разглеждайте трудността, докато е още лека. Запознайте се с голямото, докато е още малко. Най-трудните подвизи на света отначало са лесни; най-големите дела отначало са малки." -Lao Tzu
"The way of the Tao is simple-- stop striving, defeat desire. In the absence of striving, there is peace; in the absence of desire, there is satisfaction." -Lao Tzu
"Hsin yen pu mei Sincere words are not pretty. Mei yen pu hsin Pretty words are not sincere. Good people do not quarrel. Quarrelsome people are not good. The wise are not learned. The learned are not wise. The Sage is not acquisitive-- Has enough By doing for others, Has even more By giving to others." -Lao Tzu
"是 以 聖 人 處 無 為 之 事 ， 行 不 言 之 教 ﹔ 萬 物 作 而 弗 始 ， 生 而 弗 有 ， 為 而 弗 恃 ， 功 成 而 不 居" -Lao Tzu
"When well-matched armies come to conflict, the one that is aware of its own weakness conquers." -Lao Tzu
"The Tao, considered as unchanging, has no name." -Lao Tzu
"Woman is Yin - humble, soft and harmonious. Woman is not preeminent (dominant) but none-the-less subdues man" -Lao Tzu
"The way that is bright seems dull. The way forward seems to lead back. The smooth way seems rough. The highest virtue seems a valley. The purest whiteness seems stained. Excessive virtue seems defective. Solid virtue seems inactive." -Lao Tzu
"The wise humble themselves--  and because of their humility, they are worthy of praise." -Lao Tzu
"The wise humble themselves--  and because of their humility, they are worthy of praise. They put others first,  and so become great. They are not focused on outcomes or achievements;  therefore they always succeed." -Lao Tzu
"The wise ruler treats the good with goodness; and treats the not-so-good with goodness, too-- for goodness is its own reward." -Lao Tzu
"In pursuit of knowledge, every day something is acquired. In pursuit of wisdom, every day something is dropped." -Lao Tzu
"Do you want to be really happy? You can begin by being appreciative of who you are and what you've got." -Lao Tzu
"One who is good at calculating does not use counting chips." -Lao Tzu
"The wise, trusting in goodness, see the potential in others, treating no one as an outcast." -Lao Tzu
"Stillness is the master of passion." -Lao Tzu
"And yet, you'd be surprised how many people violate this simple principle every day of their lives and try to fit square pegs into round holes, ignoring the clear reality that Things Are As They Are." -Lao Tzu
"Words have an ancestor--a preceding idea, and deeds have a master--a preceding purpose." -Lao Tzu
"The wise wear plain clothes and keeps their gems out of sight." -Lao Tzu
"慎终如始，则无败事" -Lao Tzu
"Un árbol enorme crece de un tierno retoño. Un camino de mil pasos comienza en un solo paso" -Lao Tzu
"Of fame or life, Which do you hold more dear?Or life or wealth, To which would you adhere?Keep life and lose those other things; Keep them and lose your life:-- which brings Sorrow and pain more near?" -Lao Tzu
"to know the raw silk, hold the uncut wood. Need little, want less. Forget the rules. Be untroubled." -Lao Tzu
"A leader is best when people barely know that he [or she] exists,Of a good leader who talks little,When the work is done,The aim is fulfilledThey will say, 'We did this ourselves." -Lao Tzu
"I let go of religion, and people become serene." -Lao Tzu
"Don't glorify heroes, And people will not contend. Don't treasure rare objects, And no one will steal. Don't display what people desire, And their hearts will not be disturbed." -Lao Tzu
"They put others first,  and so become great. They are not focused on outcomes or achievements;  therefore they always succeed." -Lao Tzu
"Those who are wise heal themselves. The wise never fall ill because they rid themselves of the causes of illnesses. They abide in Tao. How can they be ill then?" -Lao Tzu
"An ant on the move does more than a dozing ox." -Lao Tzu
"What's softest in the world rushes and runs over what's hardest in the world. The immaterial enters the impenetrable. So I know the good in not doing. The wordless teaching, the profit in not doing-- not many people understand it." -Lao Tzu
"Those who speak don't know and those who know don't speak." -Lao Tzu
"The Journey of A Thousand Miles begins with a Single Step" -Lao Tzu
"人之生也柔弱，其死也坚强。草木之生也柔脆，其死也枯槁。故坚强者死之徒，柔弱者生之徒。是以兵强则灭，木强则折。强大处下，柔弱处上。" -Lao Tzu
"Look. Forget how smart you think you are. Stop wanting everything, as though there is something out there that will cure or fix you. Just make things happen by allowing them to happen Then everything will turn out alright." -Lao Tzu
"Stop trying to leave, and you shall arrive; stop seeking, and you shall see; stop running away, and you shall be found." -Lao Tzu
"Knowing others is intelligence; knowing yourself is true wisdom." -Lao Tzu
"third assumption in the Daoist 'cosmology' is that life broadly construed is entertained through and only through these same phenomena that constitute our experience. The field of experience is always construed from one perspective or another. There is no view from nowhere, no external perspective, no decontextualized vantage point. We are all in the soup. The intrinsic, constitutive relations that obtain among things make them reflexive and mutually implicating, residing together within the flux and flow." -Lao Tzu
"The highest virtue is like water. Since water helps the myriad creatures, And settles, without contention, Where no one wishes to live, It is near to the Way." -Lao Tzu
"Qigong Interpretation This chapter has pointed out a few important things about qigong practice. First, it has again emphasized the accumulation of good deeds and virtues. This will create in you a righteous, generous, peaceful, harmonious, and benevolent mind. Second, it mentions that the key of keeping the qi at its residence (or center) is embracing singularity. This means to keep your mind at the lower real dan tian (center of gravity). When keeping the mind at the center, your mind is not actively leading the qi out of its residence. This practice is called 'keep at singularity' (shou yi, 守一), 'embracing singularity' (bao yi, 抱一), or 'hold and firm' (wo gu, 握固)." -Lao Tzu
"Keep sharpening, and the knife becomes useless." -Lao Tzu
"They who act with violence become violent. They who act with virtue become virtuous." -Lao Tzu
"To attain knowledge, add things every day. To attain wisdom, remove things every day." -Lao Tzu
"Es sabio el que conoce a los hombres, pero el que se conoce a sí mismo es un iluminado." -Lao Tzu
"Therefore the wise ruler does not suggest unnecessary things, but seeks to satisfy the minds of his people. He seeks to allay appetites but strengthen bones. He ever tries by keeping people in ignorance to keep them satisfied and those who have knowledge he restrains from evil. If he, himself, practices restraint then everything is in quietness." -Lao Tzu
"Therefore the good person is the teacher of the bad person The bad person is the resource of the good person Those who do not value their teachers And do not love their resources Although intelligent, they are greatly confused5 This is called the essential wonder" -Lao Tzu
"Cleverness tries to devise craftier ways of making pegs fit where they don't belong." -Lao Tzu
"A man of the highest virtue does not keep to virtue and that is why he hasvirtue. A man of the lowest virtue never strays from virtue and that is why heis without virtue. The former never acts yet leaves nothing undone. The latteracts but there are things left undone. A man of the highest benevolence acts,but from no ulterior motive. A man of the highest rectitude acts, but fromulterior motive. A man most conversant in the rites acts, but when no oneresponds rolls up his sleeves and resorts to persuation by force." -Lao Tzu
"Earth reflects the heavens The heavens reflect the Way The Way reflects what is." -Lao Tzu
"When you are content to be simply yourself and don't compare or compete, everybody will respect you." -Lao Tzu
"When the world lacks guidance, war horses are bred in the countryside." -Lao Tzu
"As much as they embrace the world, the world will embrace them." -Lao Tzu
"The world is a spiritual vessel And cannot be controlled. Those who control, fail. Those who grasp, lose." -Lao Tzu
"Cleverness, as usual, takes all the credit it possibly can. But it's not the Clever Mind that's responsible when things work out. It's the mind that sees what's in front of it, and follows the nature of things." -Lao Tzu
"Before you are a leader, success is all about growing yourself. When you become a leader, success is all about growing others. --Jack Welch" -Lao Tzu
"the value of a life is measured by the soul." -Lao Tzu
"Your body is the form lent to you by heaven and earth. Your life is not your possession, it is the harmony temporarily granted to you by heaven and earth. Your life destiny is not your possession, it is a flow granted to you temporarily by heaven and earth. Your children and grandchildren are not your possessions, heaven and earth have lent them to you to be cast off as an insect sheds its skin." -Lao Tzu
"What is is beneficial, while what is not also proves useful." -Lao Tzu
"Quick promises Mean little trust." -Lao Tzu
"The Wise are Who They Are. They work with what they've got and do what they can do." -Lao Tzu
"Quién practica el no-obrar todo lo gobierna." -Lao Tzu
"The Way of Self-Reliance starts with recognizing who we are, what we've got to work with, and what works best for us." -Lao Tzu
"The wise are not conspicuous in their actions  or given to much talking. When troubles arise, they are not irritated. They produce, but do not hoard;  They act, but expect no praise; They build, but do not dwell therein." -Lao Tzu
"The government that seems the most unwise, Oft goodness to the people best supplies; That which is meddling, touching everything, Will work but ill, and disappointment bring." -Lao Tzu
"Nur derjenige, der an den Leiden leidet, wird von den Leiden befreit." -Lao Tzu
"To find glory in victoryis to savour killing people...when so many people are being killedit should be done with tears and mourning.And victory too should be conducted like a funeral.(Hinton translation)" -Lao Tzu
"Wise rulers do not accumulate treasures, but seek to quiet the hearts of their people." -Lao Tzu
"Growing downward Be broken to be whole. Twist to be straight. Be empty to be full. Wear out to be renewed. Have little and gain much. Have much and get confused. So wise souls hold to the one, and test all things against it. Not showing themselves, they shine forth. Not justifying themselves, they're self-evident. Not praising themselves, they're accomplished. Not competing, they have in all the world no competitor. What they used to say in the old days, 'Be broken to be whole,' was that mistaken? Truly, to be whole is to return." -Lao Tzu
"La naturaleza es simple y pronuncia pocas palabras. Los vientos poderosos no soplan mucho tiempo. Las lluvias torrenciales no caen eternamente. Si la voz de la naturaleza no perdura ¿por qué habría de hacerlo la del hombre? Prolóngate en el Tao y el Tao te aceptará. Ejerce la virtud y la virtud te aceptará. Para que confíen en ti debes confiar." -Lao Tzu
"All your life, you're in no danger." -Lao Tzu
"My own definition of leadership is this: The capacity and the will to rally men and women to a common purpose and the character which inspires confidence. --General Montgomery" -Lao Tzu
"Know the bright But keep to the shadows," -Lao Tzu
"為無為" -Lao Tzu
"The more laws and restrictions there are,The poorer people become.The sharper men's weapons,The more trouble in the land.The more ingenious and clever men are,The more strange things happen.The more rules and regulations,The more thieves and robbers." -Lao Tzu
"Hold your ground and you will last long.Die without perishing and your life will endure." -Lao Tzu
"Vasta es la red del cielo, entrelazada con amplias mallas y, sin embargo, nada se escapa entre ellas." -Lao Tzu
"Do you have the patience to wait til your mud settles and the water is clear?Can you remain unmoving til the right action arises by itself?" -Lao Tzu
"In the final section of the Tao Te Ching, Lao-tse wrote, 'The wise are not learned; the learned are not wise'--an attitude shared by countless Taoists before and since." -Lao Tzu
"Everyone recognizes beauty only because of ugliness Everyone recognizes virtue only because of sin" -Lao Tzu
"The wise are also impartial; to them all people are equal and alike." -Lao Tzu
"The Dao that can be told is not the eternal Dao.The name that can be named is not the eternal name.The unnameable is the eternal real." -Lao Tzu
"If you aren't afraid of dying, there is nothing you can't achieve." -Lao Tzu
"en tanto a los desastres, ninguno es mayor que no saber cuando se tiene lo suficiente; en tanto a los defectos, ninguno trae más pena que ser insaciable." -Lao Tzu
"If one can remain tranquil even the heaven and earth can come to him." -Lao Tzu
"Try to elevate yourself above others, and you will soon fall." -Lao Tzu
"Within, it can be tested." -Lao Tzu
"If you're depressed, you are living in the past. If you are anxious, you are living in the future. If you are at peace, you are living in the present." -Lao Tzu
"He whose (desires) are few gets them; he whose (desires) are many goes astray. 2. Therefore the sage holds in his embrace the one thing (of humility), and manifests it to all the world. He is free from self-display, and therefore he shines; from self-assertion, and therefore he is distinguished; from self-boasting, and therefore his merit is acknowledged; from self-complacency, and therefore he acquires superiority. It is because he is thus free from striving that therefore no one in the world is able to strive with him. 3." -Lao Tzu
"Scholarly translations of the Tao Te Ching as a manual for rulers use a vocabulary that emphasizes the uniqueness of the Taoist 'sage,' his masculinity, his authority. This language is perpetuated, and degraded, in most popular versions. I wanted a Book of the Way accessible to a present-day, unwise, unpowerful, and perhaps unmale reader, not seeking esoteric secrets, but listening for a voice that speaks to the soul." -Lao Tzu
"FORTY-TWO The Tao begot one. One begot two. Two begot three. And three begot the ten thousand things. The ten thousand things carry yin and embrace yang. They achieve harmony by combining these forces. People hate to be 'orphaned,' 'widowed,' or 'worthless,' But this is how the wise describe themselves. For one gains by losing And loses by gaining. What others teach, I also teach; that is: 'A violent person will die a violent death!' This is the essence of my teaching." -Lao Tzu
"Habla solo lo necesario, Controla tus emociones, Simplifica los problemas, Deshazte de la confusión, Atenúa tu resplandor," -Lao Tzu
"The Tao is called Great Mother: empty yet inexhaustible, it gives birth to infinite worlds. It is always present within you. You can use it any way you want." -Lao Tzu
"Lao Tzu does not see political power as magic. He sees rightful power as earned and wrongful power as usurped. He does not see power as virtue, but as the result of virtue. The democracies are founded on that view." -Lao Tzu
"The more prohibitions and rules, The poorer people become. The sharper people's weapons, The more they riot. The more skilled their techniques, The more grotesque their works. The more elaborate the laws, The more they commit crimes." -Lao Tzu
"Knowing oneself strong but keeping oneself gentle is a brook under heaven." -Lao Tzu
"The point here made is that opposite terms are relative. Take away the high, and there will no longer be the low. This line of thought, pushed to its logical conclusion, is capable of destroying the distinction between opposites." -Lao Tzu
"If the people never fear death,what is the purpose of threatening to kill them?If the people ever fear death,and I were to capture and kill those who are devious,who would dare to be so?If the people must be ever fearful of death,then there will always be an executioner.Now,To kill in place of the executionerIs likeHewing wood in place of the master carpenter;Few indeed will escape cutting their own hands!" -Lao Tzu
"It may be called immense. By not making itself great, It can do great things." -Lao Tzu
"善行，无辙迹；善言，无瑕谪；善数，不用筹策；善闭，无关楗而不可开；善结，无绳约而不可解。是以圣人常善救人，故无弃人；常善救物，故无弃物。是谓袭明。故善人者，不善人之师；不善人者，善人之资。不贵其师，不爱其资，虽智大迷，是谓要妙。" -Lao Tzu
"Hay quienes quieren dominar el mundo y tratan de hacerlo; presagio que simplemente no tendrán éxito. El mundo es una vasija sagrada, no es algo que se pueda dominar. Aquellos que lo dominan, lo destruyen; los que se aferran a él, lo pierden." -Lao Tzu
"Only I am clumsy,like drifting on the waves of the sea,without direction." -Lao Tzu
"La ley del cielo disminuye lo excesivo y completa lo insuficiente." -Lao Tzu
"In not wanting is stillness. In stillness all under heaven rests." -Lao Tzu
"Fama o integridad: ¿Qué es más importante? Dinero o felicidad: ¿Qué es másvalioso? Éxito o fracaso: ¿Qué es másdestructivo? Si miras a otros en busca de plenitud nunca alcanzarás la auténtica plenitud. Si tu felicidad depende de posesiones nunca estarás feliz contigo mismo. Conténtate con lo que tienes; regocíjate en que las cosas soncomo son. Cuando comprendes que nada falta, el mundo entero te pertenece." -Lao Tzu
"La 'clarividencia', es el adorno del Tao, y el inicio de la estupidez." -Lao Tzu
"True goodness is like water; it nurtures everything and harms nothing." -Lao Tzu
"Memberi adalah menerima. Memberi hadiah kepada orang lain adalah cara untuk memberi hadiah pada diri sendiri." -Lao Tzu
"No se puede conocer el Tao solo nombrándolo, porque el origen del universo es solo uno de sus nombres. Todo lo que existe y puede existir es su creación, porque el universo es solo un mapa de lo que existe y puede existir. La vida superficial sirve para sentir al universo, la vida interior, para entenderlo. Las dos vidas existen dentro del Tao y ninguna de ellas por separado puede contenerlo. El Tao es infinitamente más grande y más sutil que el universo." -Lao Tzu
"The world around us is always an interface between persistent form and novelty, the familiar honeycombed by the unexpected. The new emerges within the context and the security of the ordinary, and in due course, what was new overtakes and supplants the ordinary, and what was ordinary becomes an increasingly fragile memory for those who can still remember. In time, the new becomes the newly ordinary, and the ordinary returns whence it came." -Lao Tzu
"Por ello, los asuntos del mundo no son planeados, sino promovidos según su propia naturaleza.No puede hacerse nada para facilitar los cambios de las miríadas de seres, excepto captar lo esencial yregresar a ello. En consecuencia, los sabios cultivan los cimientos internos y no se adornan externamentecon cosas superficiales. Activan su espíritu vital y dejan en reposo sus opiniones aprendidas. Por ello, sonabiertos y sin argucias, aunque no hay nada que no hagan; no tienen leyes, pero no hay desorden.No tener argucias significa no actuar antes que los demás. No tener leyes significa no cambiar lanaturaleza. Que no hay desgobierno significa que avanzan mediante la afirmación recíproca de los seres." -Lao Tzu
"Conquistar a otros, significa tener poder. Conquistarse a uno mismo, significa tener fortaleza." -Lao Tzu
"Know when to stop And you will meet with no danger." -Lao Tzu
"Fame or the self, which is dearer? The self or wealth, which is greater?1 Gain or loss, which is more painful?" -Lao Tzu
"He who stands on his tiptoes does not stand firm; he who stretches his legs does not walk (easily). (So), he who displays himself does not shine; he who asserts his own views is not distinguished; he who vaunts himself does not find his merit acknowledged; he who is self-conceited has no superiority allowed to him." -Lao Tzu
"The wise have no mind of their own, finding it in the minds of ordinary people." -Lao Tzu
"Achieve the aim but don't boast. Achieve the aim without display. Achieve the aim without arrogance. Achieve the aim but don't assert it. Achieve the aim but don't intimidate." -Lao Tzu
"Can you coax your mind from its wanderingand keep to the original oneness?Can you let your body becomesupple as a newborn child's?Can you cleanse your inner visionuntil you see nothing but the light?Can you love people and lead themwithout imposing your will?Can you deal with the most vital mattersby letting events take their course?Can you step back from you own mindand thus understand all things?Giving birth and nourishing,having without possessing,acting with no expectations,leading and not trying to control:this is the supreme virtue." -Lao Tzu
"Na Era do Ouro, as pessoas não estavam conscientes de seus governantes. Na Era de Prata, elas os amavam e cantavam. Na Era de Bronze, elas os temiam. E por fim, na Era do Ferro, elas os desprezavam." -Lao Tzu
"Reckless courage leads to death. Cautious courage leads to life. These two things, courage and caution, must be balanced." -Lao Tzu
"When no credit is taken, Accomplishment endures." -Lao Tzu
"The wise attend to the inner truth of things and are not fooled by outward appearances." -Lao Tzu
"The life-force of the valley never dies--This is called the dark female.The gateway of the dark female--This is called the root of the world.Wispy and delicate, it only seems to be there,Yet its productivity is bottomless." -Lao Tzu
"When his task is accomplished and his work done The people all say, ‘It happened to us naturally." -Lao Tzu
"Knowing others is intelligence; knowing yourself is true wisdom. Mastering others is strength; mastering yourself is true power." -Lao Tzu
"Whosoever wishes to be above the folk, in speech must be beneath them. Whosoever wishes to be ahead of them, must be behind. The Taoist is above, yet (the folk) doesn't feel any burden. He is ahead, yet (the folk) don't feel any impediment." -Lao Tzu
"mirror," -Lao Tzu
"A pagoda of nine stories is built from small bricks." -Lao Tzu
"When a ruler practices restraint, everything will be in peace." -Lao Tzu
"Not extreme perfection,  but purity and clarity are the targets at which we should aim." -Lao Tzu
"Good things seem to change into bad, and bad things often turn out for good. These things have always been hard to comprehend." -Lao Tzu
"Acepta poco y serás más, inclínate y serás recto, vacíate y quedarás lleno, desciende y ascenderás, desea lo necesario y conseguirás lo imprescindible." -Lao Tzu
"The Tao that can be told of is not the eternal Tao; The name that can be named is not the eternal name. The Nameless is the origin of Heaven and Earth; The Named is the mother of all things." -Lao Tzu
"Por eso, el sabio hace su trabajo sin acumular nada por él, realiza su obra sin apropiarse de ella, y no se vanagloria de su sabiduría." -Lao Tzu
"Those who understand others are clever, those who understand themselves are wise." -Lao Tzu
"Alejarse cuando se logra algo, ese es el Tao de los cielos." -Lao Tzu
"Hence Lao-tzu's emphasis on softness. Softness means the opposite of rigidity, and is synonymous with suppleness, adaptability, endurance. Anyone who has seen a t'ai chi or aikido master doing not-doing will know how powerful this softness is." -Lao Tzu
"The accomplished person is not aggressive. The good soldier is not hot-tempered. The best conqueror does not engage the enemy. The most effective leader takes the lowest place. Shih wei pu cheng chih te This is called the TE of not contending. This is called the power of the leader. This is called matching Heaven's ancient ideal." -Lao Tzu
"Shut the doors,* And all your life you will not run dry. Unblock the openings, Add to your troubles," -Lao Tzu
"The softest things of the world Override the hardest things of the world1" -Lao Tzu
"To give birth, to nourish, to bear and not to own, to act and not lay claim, to lead and not to rule: this is mysterious power." -Lao Tzu
"The wise take the lost under their wings, and so the lost become newfound treasures of the wise." -Lao Tzu
"To know that you do not know is the best.To pretend to know when you do not know is a disease." -Lao Tzu
"Those who try to seize power and remake society will fail." -Lao Tzu
"Everything that lives has a physical body, but the value of a life is measured by the soul." -Lao Tzu
"Wenn du depressiv bist, lebst du in der Vergangenheit. Wenn du ängstlich bist, lebst du in der Zukunft.Wenn du in Frieden lebst, lebst du in der Gegenwart." -Lao Tzu
"The Great Nature has countless cyclic patterns. Some of the patterns are near us and we can see or even experience them; for example, yearly, monthly, and daily cyclic changes due to the positions of the sun, earth, and the moon. All these changes are near us and immediately influence our body's energy and activities. All these are considered as the De, the manifestation of the Dao. Then, what is the Dao? Is the Dao the spirit or God of nature? Since we don't know too much about the Dao, it is still a huge mystery for us." -Lao Tzu
"la habilidad del sabio de lograr lo grandioso, proviene de no engrandecerse. Así es capaz de lograr lo grandioso." -Lao Tzu
"The essence of life itself is a continuous flow. We may take it for granted and not pay attention to it, but it is always there. Because life begets life, its power extends indefinitely into the future. It does not matter how much we utilize; we can never use it up." -Lao Tzu
"Now, scholars can be very useful and necessary, in their own dull and un-amusing way. They provide a lot of information. It's just that there is Something More, and that Something More is what life is really all about." -Lao Tzu
"Hold your ground and you will last long. Die without perishing and your life will endure." -Lao Tzu
"Care about what other people think, and you will always be their prisoner." -Lao Tzu
"He who values his body more than dominion over the empire can be entrusted with the empire. He who loves his body more than dominion over the empire can be given the custody of the empire, (XIII, 31)" -Lao Tzu
"Not showing themselves, they shine forth. Not justifying themselves, they're self-evident. Not praising themselves, they're accomplished. Not competing, they have in all the world no competitor." -Lao Tzu
"Immediate experience requires that the concrete particulars themselves are the objects of knowledge. Such particulars are not mediated but are grasped immediately in the sense that the experience of them is simply had. The structures that permit the having of experience and that determine its significance are the cultivated habits that dispose one toward that experience. The language of taste and of appreciation is relevant. The notion of Being that implies a contrast between essence and existence privileges mediation and, therefore, conceptual, generic, and essential knowledge. An aesthetic perspective, as opposed to a rational or logical one, involves experiencing the world in a relatively unmediated fashion. Mediated experience requires one to grasp or comprehend the essence of a thing, while the unmediated aesthetic experience is simply had as lived experience. A comparison with the analytical epistemic language of 'getting,' 'grasping,' 'comprehending' is important here. Rather than a language of mediation in which the essences of things are abstracted through concepts, the Chinese language tends to be dispositional in that it promotes the 'having' of the unmediated experience through a correlating and focusing of the affairs of the day. The important contrast here is between a cognitive and discursive knowing that abstracts from experience and felt experience as the concrete content of knowledge." -Lao Tzu
"Chase after money and securityand your heart will never unclench.Care about people's approvaland you will be their prisoner." -Lao Tzu
"The violent do not trust in deep mysteries, they rebel against the Tao and the power" -Lao Tzu
"To glimpse the secret of the Tao, you must keep still and quiet your mind." -Lao Tzu
"There is one general point that we would make in our interpretation of this classical Chinese language. Above we have argued for a processual understanding of classical Daoist cosmology. If this account is persuasive, it means that the vocabulary that expresses the worldview and the common sense in which the Daodejing is to be located is first and foremost gerundive. Because 'things' in the Daodejing are in fact active 'processes' and ongoing 'events,' nouns that would 'objectify' this world are derived from and revert to a verbal sensibility." -Lao Tzu
"En lo alto no es luminoso,en lo bajo no es oscuro.Es eterno y no puede ser nombrado,retorna al no-ser de las cosas.Es la forma sin formay la imagen sin imagen.Es lo confuso e inasible.De frente no ves su rostro,por detrás no ves su espalda." -Lao Tzu
"This is a subtle insight: the flexible overcomes the strong and unyielding." -Lao Tzu
"Nur derjenige, der an den Leiden leidet, wird von den Leiden befreit" -Lao Tzu
"The sage gives more than he takes;how can he do this?because he has the richness of Tao" -Lao Tzu
"The ancients were subtle, mysterious, profound, responsive. The depth of their knowledge is unfathomable. Because it is unfathomable, All we can do is describe their appearance." -Lao Tzu
"Bring things to life and nurture them, But have no thoughts of possession.Act without relying on anything;Bring things along, but do not take charge.This is the dark and mysterious virtue." -Lao Tzu
"Again and again, students of the Tao  must humble themselves, until they reach the state of non-doing. Then they will do nothing,  yet leave nothing undone." -Lao Tzu
"En el ser centramos nuestro interés,pero del no-ser depende la utilidad." -Lao Tzu
"No one rules if no one obeys." -Lao Tzu
"A basic principle of Lao-tse's teaching was that this Way of the Universe could not be adequately described in words, and that it would be insulting both to its unlimited power and to the intelligent human mind to attempt to do so." -Lao Tzu
"El Tao es algo confuso e intangible.Es confuso e intangible, pero tiene formas.Es confuso pero brillante porque abarca muchas cosas.Es profundo y oscuro pero contiene una esencia.Esta esencia es verdadera." -Lao Tzu
"If you want to be noble, it is rooted in humility; If you want to be elevated, it is based on lowering yourself." -Lao Tzu
"When things are murky, quiet down, and they will gradually clear. Proceed, and momentum gradually builds." -Lao Tzu
"Such a man, according to the Lao tzu, is eminently suited to rule over the empire." -Lao Tzu
"Jalan seribu mil dimulai dengan langkah pertama." -Lao Tzu
"Although the wheel has thirty spokes its utility lies in the emptiness of the hub. The jar is made by kneading clay, but its usefulness consists in its capacity. A room is made by cutting out windows and doors through the walls, but the space the walls contain measures the room's value" -Lao Tzu
"Wise rulers do not accumulate treasures, but seek to quiet the hearts of their people. They soothe the people's appetites and strengthen their bones. They treasure innocence, and protect the simple from the schemes of the clever. When a ruler practices restraint, everything will be in peace." -Lao Tzu
"To believe that our beliefs are permanent truths which encompass reality is a sad arrogance. To let go of that belief is to find safety." -Lao Tzu
"I have just three things to teach: simplicity, patience, compassion. These are your greatest treasures. Simple in actions and in thoughts, you return to the Source of Being." -Lao Tzu
"A lot of people try to buy Happiness and Importance in the same sort of way. But you can be happy and important without doing that, you know." -Lao Tzu
"The nameless uncarved blockIs but freedom from desire, And I if I cease to desire and remain still,The empire will be at peace of its own accord." -Lao Tzu
"A leader is best when people barely know he exists, not so good when people obey and acclaim him, worst when they despise him.Fail to honor others and they will fail to honor you. But of a good leader, who talks little, when his work is done, his aims fulfilled, they will all say, 'we did this ourselves." -Lao Tzu
"Value virtue over wealth," -Lao Tzu
"I am like a sailor far from shore, adrift on a boundless ocean. Oh, how I long to be as a child, suckling milk from Mother Tao!" -Lao Tzu
"See simplicity in the complicated. Achieve greatness in little things." -Lao Tzu
"O nome não é o mesmo que Aquilo que foi nomeado." -Lao Tzu
"Easy promises make for little trust." -Lao Tzu
"Saber que no se sabe es lo mejor." -Lao Tzu
"He who knows he has enough is rich." -Lao Tzu
"The wu-forms that we find throughout the text all advocate a personal disposition that seeks to optimize relationships through collaborative actions that, in the absence of coercion, enable one to make the most of any situation. It is the uniqueness of each situation that requires any generalization about this optimal disposition to be stated in negative terms. A voice coach can describe the constraints that students in general might have to overcome in achieving the fullness of their talent, but all of the students must sing their own unique songs." -Lao Tzu
"Quien conoce la eternidadda cabida a todos.Quien da cabida a todos es grandioso.Quien es grandioso es celestial.Quien es celestial es como Tao.Quien es como el Tao es perdurable.Aunque su vida se extinga, no perece." -Lao Tzu
"The best fighter is never angry" -Lao Tzu
"True words aren't eloquent;eloquent words aren't true.Wise men don't need to prove their point;men who need to prove their point aren't wise." -Lao Tzu
"Good music, the Chinese held, insures peace and uprightness; bad music leads to lewdness and social decline." -Lao Tzu
"For a student of life, there is perhaps no single better text--certainly of its length--than the Dao De Jing." -Lao Tzu
"All men have enough and to spare;I alone seem to have lost everything.Mine is indeed the mind of a very idiot,So dull am I.The world is full of people that shine;I alone am dark.They look lively and self-assured;I alone, depressed.I seem unsettled as the ocean;Blown adrift, never brought to a stop.All men can be put to some use;I alone am intractable and boorish.But wherein I most am different from other menIs that I prize no sustenance that comes not from the Mother's breast." -Lao Tzu
"are" -Lao Tzu
"Seek to attain an open mind (the summit of vacuity). Seek composure (the essence of tranquillity) All things are in process, rising and returning. Plants come to blossom, but only to return to the root. Returning to the root is like seeking tranquillity; it is moving towards its destiny. To move toward destiny is like eternity. To know eternity is enlightenment, and not to recognize eternity brings disorder and evil Knowing eternity makes one comprehensive; comprehension makes one broadminded; breadth of vision brings nobility; nobility is like heaven The heavenly is like Tao. Tao is the Eternal. The decay of the body is not to be feared" -Lao Tzu
"The heavy is the root of the light; the quiet is master of motion." -Lao Tzu
"an excessive love for anything will cost you dear in the end." -Lao Tzu
"Si los impuestos son excesivos,la gente pasa hambre.Si el gobierno se entromete en demasía,la gente pierde su espíritu.Actúa en beneficio de las gentes. Confía en ellas; déjalas solas." -Lao Tzu
"Knowing others is wisdom, knowing yourself is Enlightenment." -Lao Tzu
"Approach it and there is no beginning; follow it and there is no end. You can't know it, but you can be it," -Lao Tzu
"Do you have the patience to wait till your mud settles and the water is clear? Can you remain unmoving till the right action arises by itself?" -Lao Tzu
"Si quieres empequeñecer una cosa,procura que antes se dilate.Si quieres debilitar algo,procura que cobre fuerza primero.Antes de aniquilar algo,espera a que florezca plenamente.Si quieres privar de algo a alguien,primero habrás de darle lo bastante.Esto es percibir la naturaleza de las cosas.Lo flexible vence a lo rígido.Lo débil triunfa sobre lo fuerte.El pez no debe abandonar las aguas profundas.Las armas del reino no deben ser exhibidas." -Lao Tzu
"Leadership is your ability to disguise your panic from others." -Lao Tzu
"The journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step.'― Lao Tzu" -Lao Tzu
"When I let go what I am, I become what I might be." -Lao Tzu
"I take no action and people are reformed. I enjoy peace and people become honest. I do nothing and people become rich. I have no desires and people return to the goodand simple life" -Lao Tzu
"they do not exist for themselves. That is why they endure." -Lao Tzu
"The supreme goodness is like water.It benefits all things without contention.In dwelling, it stays grounded.In being, it flows to depths.In expression, it is honest.In confrontation, it stays gentle.In governance, it does not control.In action, it aligns to timing.It is content with its nature,and therefore cannot be faulted." -Lao Tzu
"If a country is governed wisely,its inhabitants will be content.They enjoy the labor of their handsand don't waste time inventinglabor-saving machines.Since they dearly love their homes,they aren't interested in travel.There may be a few wagons and boats,but these don't go anywhere.There may be an arsenal of weapons,but nobody ever uses them.People enjoy their food,take pleasure in being with their families,spend weekends working in their gardens,delight in the doings of the neighborhood.And even though the next country is so closethat people can hear its roosters crowing and its dogs barking,they are content to die of old agewithout ever having gone to see it." -Lao Tzu
"Not to desire material things is to know the freedom of spirituality; and to desire them is to suffer the limitations of matter." -Lao Tzu
"How can you follow the course of your life if you do not let it flow?" -Lao Tzu
"The Taoist Master Lie (Lieh-tzu) had written: There was a man who lived by the sea and loved seagulls. Every day at dawn when he went down to the sea to swim, the gulls followed him. This was a sign that he was completely in tune with Nature." -Lao Tzu
"When nothing is done,nothing is left undone." -Lao Tzu
"Seek an open mind--the ideal of vacuity. Seek composure--the essence of tranquility. All things are in process, rising and returning. Plants blossom for a season, then return to the root." -Lao Tzu
"If you use the Way to help a ruler of people you never use weapons to coerce all beneath heaven.Such things always turn against you:fields where soldiers camp turn to thorn and bramble, and vast armies on the march leave years of misery behind.The noble prevail if they must, then stop: they never press on to coerce the world.Prevail, but never presume.Prevail, but never boast.Prevail, but never exult.Prevail, but never when there's another way.This is to prevail without coercing.Things grown strong soon grow old.This is called losing the Way:Lose the Way and you die young." -Lao Tzu
"The Tao can't be perceived. Smaller than an electron, it contains uncountable galaxies." -Lao Tzu
"Hard depends on easy, Long is tested by short, High is determined by low, Sound is harmonized by voice, After is followed by before." -Lao Tzu
"In other words, Knowledge and Experience do not necessarily speak the same language." -Lao Tzu
"Knowing when to stop, you can avoid any danger." -Lao Tzu
"Govern large countrieslike you cook little fish." -Lao Tzu
"Nature needs few words. Fierce winds don't blow all morning, torrents don't pour all day." -Lao Tzu
"Can you coax your mind from its wandering and keep to the original oneness?... Can you cleanse your inner vision until you see nothing but the light? Can you love people and lead them without imposing your will? Can you deal with the most vital matters by letting events take their course? Can you step back from your own mind and thus, understand all things?... This is the supreme virtue." -Lao Tzu
"Paradoxically, for the Daoist the objective world is objectless. Sages envision a world of changing events that they can, for whatever reason, choose to freeze momentarily into a distinct pattern of discrimination, but that they recognize, when they see clearly, as being beyond such distinctions." -Lao Tzu
"If you understand others, you are smart.If you understand yourself, you are illuminated.If you overcome others, you are powerful.If you overcome yourself, you have strength.If you know how to be satisfied, you are rich.If you can act with vigor, you have a will.If you don't lose your objectives, you can be long-lasting.If you die without loss, you are eternal." -Lao Tzu
"Weapons are tools of misfortune, not tools of the noble-minded.When there's no other way,they take up weapons with tranquil calm, finding no glory in victory.To find glory in victory is to savor killing people, and if you savor killing people you'll never guide all beneath heaven.We honor the left in celebrations and honor the right in lamentations, so captains stand on the left and generals on the right.But use them both as if conducting a funeral!When so many people are being killed It should be done with tears and mourning.And victory too should be conducted like a funeral." -Lao Tzu
"What is firmly established cannot be uprooted.What is firmly grasped cannot slip away.It will be honored from generation to generation.Cultivate Virtue in your self,And Virtue will be real.Cultivate it in the family,And Virtue will abound.Cultivate it in the village,And Virtue will grow.Cultivate it in the nation,And Virtue will be abundant.Cultivate it in the universe,And Virtue will be everywhere.Therefore look at the body as body;Look at the family as family;Look at the village as village;Look at the nation as nation;Look at the universe as universe.How do I know the universe is like this?By looking!" -Lao Tzu
"Onde quer que se encontrem grandiosos exércitos, a colheita será pobre." -Lao Tzu
"Υπάρχει κάτι άμορφο και όμως πλήρεςπου υπήρχε πριν από τον ουρανό και τη γηΤόσο ακίνητο! Τόσο άδειο!Δεν εξαρτάται από τίποτε, απαράλλαχτοΔιαποτίζει τα πάντα, αλάθητοΜπορεί να το σκεφτεί κανείς σαν μητέραόλων των πραγμάτων κάτω από τον ουρανό. Δεν γνωρίζω το όνομα του, αλλά το ονομάζω 'Νόημα'....Το Ταό ποτέ δεν κάνει.Όμως, όλα τα πράγματα γίνονται μέσα από αυτό....Μέσα του, τα αντίθετα παύουν σε κατάσταση μη διάκρισηςαλλά είναι εν δυνάμει παρόντα." -Lao Tzu
"A man hungry for knowledge gains something every day. A man who already knows loses something every day. strips down to the essence strips down the essence to nothing, and leaves nothing unknown. To rule, let go. Let people go; let yourself go; let the empire go. Anarchy is the only art of rulership." -Lao Tzu
"They who live by violence, violence will soon destroy." -Lao Tzu
"No fight: no blame." -Lao Tzu
"When rulers resort to force, things flourish for a time, but then decay." -Lao Tzu
"To win true merit--to earn a good reputation-- you must be prudent." -Lao Tzu
"At least they do when you let them, when you work with circumstances instead of saying, 'This isn't supposed to be happening this way,' and trying hard to make it happen some other way." -Lao Tzu
"When the court is arrayed in splendor, The fields are full of weeds, And the granaries are empty. Some wear gorgeous clothes, Carry sharp swords, And indulge in food and drink; They have more possessions than they can use. They are robber barons. This is certainly not the way of Tao." -Lao Tzu
"I have three treasures To maintain and conserve: The first is compassion. The second is frugality. The third is not presuming To be first under heaven." -Lao Tzu
"Nothing is gentler than water, yet nothing can withstand its force. Likewise, nothing compares to the Tao. By it the weak defeat the strong; and the flexible conquer the rigid. Every one knows this is true, but how few put it into practice!  Monks and priests are often the worst sinners. Police officers and lawmakers are often the worst criminals. Truth is often paradoxical." -Lao Tzu
"Those who are good at military action achieve their goal and then stop." -Lao Tzu
"Working with the Tiddely-Pom Principle, you use respect to build Respect. The more it snows, the more it goes:" -Lao Tzu
"Wise men don't need to prove their point; men who need to prove their point aren't wise." -Lao Tzu
"Where there is lack of faith, There is a lack of respect." -Lao Tzu
"That no one can put into practice the advice contained in the words is because it is against the grain of human nature in its degenerate form to act in accordance with it." -Lao Tzu
"There is no greater disaster than discontent. -- Laozi" -Lao Tzu
"Have faith in the way things are. Love the world as your self; then you can care for all things." -Lao Tzu
"All it really is, though, is being Sensitive to Circumstances." -Lao Tzu
"Esteem for no master, no love for the student,' perplexes even the wise. Call this the essential mystery." -Lao Tzu
"Sometimes gain comes from losing,and sometimes loss comes from gaining." -Lao Tzu
"True wholeness is restored from within." -Lao Tzu
"She is good to people who are good. She is also good to people who aren't good. This is true goodness." -Lao Tzu
"What it actually means is that we can never understand the Tao through the intellect alone. We must feel it. Talking about it can be useful but will never replace the actual experience of living it." -Lao Tzu
"Thirty spokes share the wheel's hub.It is the center hole that makes it useful.Shape clay into a vessel;It is the space within that makes it useful.Cut doors and windows for a room;It is the holes which make it useful.Therefore benefit comes from what is there;Usefulness from what is not there." -Lao Tzu
"El cielo es eterno y la tierra permanece.El cielo y la tierra deben su eterna duracióna que no hacen de sí mismosla razón de su existencia." -Lao Tzu
"There is no need to run outside for better seeing…Rather abide at the center of your being; for the more you leave it the less you learn. Search your heart and see…The way to do is to be." -Lao Tzu
"poets, untraveled and inexperienced, Emily Brontë and Emily Dickinson, prove Lao Tzu's point: it's the inner eye that really sees the world." -Lao Tzu
"Conocer el propio mal es liberarse del mal. El sabio no tiene mal; porque lo reconoce, no lo padece." -Lao Tzu
"The nameless uncarved block Is but freedom from desire," -Lao Tzu
"Recognize beauty and ugliness is born. Recognize good and evil is born." -Lao Tzu
"Misery!--happiness is to be found by its side! Happiness!--misery lurks beneath it! Who knows what either willcome to in the end?祸兮福所倚，福兮祸所伏" -Lao Tzu
"The progress of the Way seems retreating." -Lao Tzu
"The way of the Tao is simple-- stop striving, defeat desire. In the absence of striving, there is peace; in the absence of desire, there is satisfaction." -Lao Tzu
"Heaven and earth will unite and sweet dew will fall," -Lao Tzu
"Thirty spokes are joined together in a wheel,but it is the centre holethat allows the wheel to function.We mould clay into a pot,but it is the emptiness insidethat makes the vessel useful.We fashion wood for a house,but it is the emptiness insidethat makes it liveable.We work with the substantial,but the emptiness is what we use." -Lao Tzu
"No-saber es auténtica sabiduría.Presumir que se sabe es una enfermedad.Primero, date cuenta de que estás enfermo;sólo entonces podrás recobrar la salud.El Maestro es su propio médico.Se ha curado a sí mismo de todosaber,por eso verdaderamente está completo." -Lao Tzu
"Because it never regards itself as great It is capable of being great." -Lao Tzu
"That the soft overcomes the hard, and the yielding overcomes the resistant, is a fact known by all, but practiced by few." -Lao Tzu
"While protecting the people, they do not control them. They are motherly and fatherly, but not domineering. They persuade with words, not weapons." -Lao Tzu
"Those who know both their masculine  and their feminine sides  become fruitful like the valleys of earth." -Lao Tzu
"to live in the mountains and forests or cut yourself off from human affairs to enter the Way. Success and fame, wealth and honor" -Lao Tzu
"recognize simplicity, cherish purity, reduce your possessions, diminish your desires." -Lao Tzu
"). In fact, in the absence of some claim to objectivity that 'objectifies' and thus makes 'objects' of phenomena, the Chinese tradition does not have the separation between time and entities that would allow for either time without entities, or entities without time--there is no possibility of either an empty temporal corridor or an eternal anything (in the sense of being timeless). What encourages us within a Western metaphysical tradition to separate time and space is our inclination, inherited from the Greeks, to see things in the world as fixed in their formal aspect, and thus as bounded and limited. If instead of giving ontological privilege to the formal aspect of phenomena, we were to regard them as having parity in their formal and changing aspects, we might be more like classical China in temporalizing them in light of their ceaseless transformation, and conceive of them more as 'events' than as 'things.' In this processual worldview, each phenomenon is some unique current or impulse within a temporal flow. In fact, it is the pervasive and collective capacity of the events of the world to transform continuously that is the actual meaning of time. A" -Lao Tzu
"Creating, yet not possessingWorking, yet not taking creditWork is done, then forgottenTherefore it lasts forever" -Lao Tzu
"All things in nature work silently. They come into being and possess nothing. They fulfill their function and make no claim. All things alike do their work, and then we see them subside. When they have reached their bloom each returns to its origin. Returning to their origin means rest, or fulfilling of destiny. This reversion is an eternal law. To know that is wisdom." -Lao Tzu
"When there is not enough faith, there is lack of good faith." -Lao Tzu
"One who holds fast to the Way Does not desire completeness." -Lao Tzu
"They are not focused on outcomes or achievements; therefore they always succeed." -Lao Tzu
"The skilful traveller leaves no traces of his wheels or footsteps; the skilful speaker says nothing that can be found fault with or blamed; the skilful reckoner uses no tallies; the skilful closer needs no bolts or bars, while to open what he has shut will be impossible; the skilful binder uses no strings or knots, while to unloose what he has bound will be impossible." -Lao Tzu
"Superficial things are insufficient, What is needed is all-embracing." -Lao Tzu
"To know that you do not know is the best.To pretend to know when you do not know is a disease." -Lao Tzu
"Knowing others is Wisdom, Knowing yourself is Enlightenment." -Lao Tzu
"Colours blind the eye.Sounds deafen the ear.Flavours numb the taste.Thoughts weaken the mind.Desires wither the heart.The Master observes the world but trusts his inner vision.He allows things to come and go.His heart is open to the sky." -Lao Tzu
"En todo lo que ocurre, el sabio crea, pero no surge con ello. Lo que origina, no lo determina, y lo que determina no lo retiene; cumple su tarea, pero no se queda con ella, es porque no se queda con ella, que no se aleja." -Lao Tzu
"Those who understand others are intelligent Those who understand themselves are enlightened1 Those who overcome others have strength Those who overcome themselves are powerful" -Lao Tzu
"Value virtue over wealth, and the people's hearts will be at rest. Wise rulers do not accumulate treasures, but seek to quiet the hearts of their people." -Lao Tzu
"深深地被某人爱会给你力量，而深爱某人会给你勇气。" -Lao Tzu
"Those who think to win the world by doing something to it, I see them come to grief. For the world is a sacred object. Nothing is to be done to it. To do anything to it is to damage it. To seize it is to lose it." -Lao Tzu
"Not to know the things you ought to know is folly. To know that there are some things you cannot know is wisdom." -Lao Tzu
"mundane purpose of personal survival and political order. There" -Lao Tzu
"To clarify muddy waters, you must hold them still and let things settle. To glimpse the secret of the Tao, you must keep still and quiet your mind." -Lao Tzu
"A raiz da grandeza é a humildade. O que é elevado se fundamenta no que é baixo." -Lao Tzu
"Without going out the door, Know the world. Without peeping through the window, See heaven's DAO. The further you travel, The less you know. This is why the Sage Knows without budging, Identifies without looking, Does without trying." -Lao Tzu
"El Tao del cielo es quitar al que le sobra y dar al que le falta." -Lao Tzu
"If good happens, good; if bad happens, good." -Lao Tzu
"Knowing when to stop Keeps one from danger." -Lao Tzu
"There is a saying in the army: I do not presume to be the master, But become the guest. I do not dare advance an inch, But retreat a foot. Shih wei hsing wu hsing This is called moving without moving, Rolling up sleeves without baring your arms, Repelling without opposing, Wielding without a weapon. There is no disaster greater than Contempt for the enemy. Contempt for the enemy-- What a treasure is lost!" -Lao Tzu
"He who does not trust enough, will not be trusted." -Lao Tzu
"Among other things, this chapter represents a valiant although self-consciously inadequate attempt to do what Wittgenstein says cannot be done. According to Wittgenstein, one cannot predicate the whole. That is, one cannot say that the totality of things is either large or small if there is nothing beyond it with which to compare." -Lao Tzu
"El sabio no acumula nada; pero cuanto más actúa para otros, más ha ganado para sí mismo; y cuanto más le da a otros, más se ha dado a sí mismo." -Lao Tzu
"¿Qué hombre que tiene de sobra le daría sus riquezas al mundo? Sólo el hombre que posee al Tao." -Lao Tzu
"Those who babble and meddle in other's business cannot escape from trouble, even to the end of life. To recognize your insignificance is empowering. To show sympathy is strength. Those who follow the Tao's light arrive at enlightenment." -Lao Tzu
"O Caminho Perfeito é plano e fácil de trilhar, mas as pessoas preferem as vias tortas." -Lao Tzu
"A wheel may have thirty spokes, but its usefulness lies in the empty hub." -Lao Tzu
"Do you have the patience to wait till your mud settles and the water is clear?" -Lao Tzu
"To know and not to do is not yet to know." -Lao Tzu
"and to desire them is to suffer the limitations of matter." -Lao Tzu
"Stillness is the ruler of haste." -Lao Tzu
"A great military general once said, 'I dare not invite conflict as a host, but always act as a guest. I hesitate to advance an inch, and am quick to withdraw a foot.' This is advancing by not advancing; it is winning without weapons; it is charging without rage; it is seizing without force. There is no mistake greater than making light of an enemy. Through overconfidence, we make ourselves vulnerable. When well-matched armies come to conflict, the one that is aware of its own weakness conquers." -Lao Tzu
"Extreme love exacts a great price. Many possessions entail heavy loss. Know what is enough-- Abuse nothing. Know when to stop-- Harm nothing. This is how to last a long time." -Lao Tzu
"We hammer wood for a house, but it is the inner space that makes it liveable. We work with being, but non-being is what we use." -Lao Tzu
"el sabio es recto pero no tajante, es anguloso pero no hiriente, es firme pero no insolente, es iluminado pero no encandila." -Lao Tzu
"What the Daodejing has to offer, on the other hand, is much simpler. It encourages the cultivation of a disposition that is captured in what we have chosen to call its wu-forms. The wu-forms free up the energy required to sustain the abstract cognitive and moral sensibilities of technical philosophy, allowing this energy, now unmediated by concepts, theories, and contrived moral precepts, to be expressed as those concrete feelings that inspire the ordinary business of the day. It is through these concrete feelings that one is able to know the world and to optimize the human experience." -Lao Tzu
"The stiff and strong Are Death's companions The soft and weak Are Life's companions." -Lao Tzu
"Los cielos perduran; la tierra tiene una larga duración. La razón por la cual perduran y tienen larga duración, es que no se generan a sí mismos, por eso viven largo tiempo. Por tanto, el sabio se aparta, y así está al frente. Remueve la preocupación de sí mismo, y así permanece." -Lao Tzu
"The practice of the Taoist is soft and gentle, It leads to endurance and long-life" -Lao Tzu
"One who understands others is clever. One who understands the ‘self' is enlightened. One who conquers others is forceful. One who conquers the ‘self' is strong. One who can be content is rich. One who can act with purpose has will. One who doesn't lose place endures. One who dies without loss has lived a life." -Lao Tzu
"Not shown, therefore apparent, Not asserted, therefore known, Not boasted of, therefore of worth, Not contentious, so enduring." -Lao Tzu
"The morally great man is one who keeps throughout life his infant heart" -Lao Tzu
"Če hočeš imeti znanje, vsak dan dodaj kaj. Če te mika postati moder, vsak dan kaj odvzemi." -Lao Tzu
"Aquele que viu o brilho da glória, e não esqueceu dos desgraçados, se torna como um grande vale por onde fluem todas as águas do mundo." -Lao Tzu
"They put others first, and so become great." -Lao Tzu
"Watch your thoughts, they become your words; watch your words, they become your actions; watch your actions, they become your habits; watch your habits, they become your character; watch your character, it becomes your destiny.Lao Tzu" -Lao Tzu
"If powerful men and women could remain centered in the Tao, all things would be in harmony. The world would become a paradise. All people would be at peace, and the law would be written in their hearts." -Lao Tzu
"The effectiveness of action is in the right timing." -Lao Tzu
"In other words, we defer in attaining integrity with those things that contextualize us, establishing a frictionless equilibrium with them. And it is this state of achieved equilibrium that is precisely the relationship most conducive to symbiotic growth and productivity." -Lao Tzu
"Seal the openings, shut the doors,And until your last day you will not be exhausted.Widen the openings, interfere,And until your last day you will not be safe." -Lao Tzu
"The great cutter Does not cut away." -Lao Tzu
"Habit is an acquired and cultivated disposition to act in one way as opposed to another. It is the significant form that bursts of energy take as they are channeled through existing patterns of associated living, dependent upon anticipated response as much as novel impulse." -Lao Tzu
"Hollowed out then filled. Worn away then renewed." -Lao Tzu
"Ambition has one heel nailed in well, though she stretch her fingers to touch the heavens." -Lao Tzu
"Wild winds never last all morningand fierce rains never last all day.Who conjures such things if not heaven and earth,and if heaven and earth can't make things last,why should we humans try?(Hinton translation)" -Lao Tzu
"Hence the superior must have the inferior as root; the high must have the low as base." -Lao Tzu
"El valor del osado le conduce a la muerte. El valor del prudente le conserva la vida. Uno es el perjudicado y el otro el beneficiado." -Lao Tzu
"There is no greater calamity Than not knowing what is enough. There is no greater fault Than desire for success." -Lao Tzu
"goodness, if it is not sincere, is not really goodness." -Lao Tzu
"Conocer y no saberlo, ésta es la perfección. No conocer y creer saberlo, éste es el mal." -Lao Tzu
"Cleverness, after all, has its limitations. Its mechanical judgments and clever remarks tend to prove inaccurate with passing time, because it doesn't look very deeply into things to begin with." -Lao Tzu
"The heart and mind, free of desire, turns inward to true knowledge" -Lao Tzu
"Great talents ripen late. The highest notes are hard to hear." -Lao Tzu
"İyilik bilmez gökyüzüEn büyük iyiliği de budur işte." -Lao Tzu
"aquele que teve de comandar a matança de milhares de homens deve chorar por eles com maior dor." -Lao Tzu
"The five colors can make our eyes blind.The five tones can make our ears deaf.The five flavors can make our mouths numb." -Lao Tzu
"So things are sometimes augmented By being diminished, And diminished by addition." -Lao Tzu
"Las palabras verdaderas no son elocuentes;las palabras elocuentes no son verdaderas.Los sabios no precisan probar su opinión; quienes precisan probar suopinión no son sabios." -Lao Tzu
"The people make light of dying because of the greatness of their labours in seeking for the means of living. It is this which makes them think light of dying. Thus it is that to leave the subject of living altogether out of view is better than to set a high value on it." -Lao Tzu
"She doesn't give even a moment's thought to right or wrong. She never has to make a decision; decisions arise by themselves. She is like an actress who loves her role. The Tao is writing the script." -Lao Tzu
"The Masteracts without doing anythingand teaches without saying anything.Things arise and she lets them come;things disappear and she lets them go.She has but doesn't possess,acts but doesn't expect.When her work is done, she forgets it.That is why it lasts forever." -Lao Tzu
"Който се е повдигнал на пръсти, не може дълго да стои.Който прави големи крачки, не може дълго да върви.Който се уповава само на своите очи недовижда.Който се самопредставя, не блести.Който се хвали, не се прославя.Който напада, няма успех.Който се гордее, не може да е старши. Въз основа на Дао, това се нарича остатък от ядене, ненужно поведение.Всички се отвращават от него. Ето защо,Който има Дао, не постъпва така." -Lao Tzu
"He who knows contentment is rich;" -Lao Tzu
"He who knows other men is discerning; he who knows himself is intelligent. He who overcomes others is strong; he who overcomes himself is mighty. He who is satisfied with his lot is rich; he who goes on acting with energy has a (firm) will." -Lao Tzu
"Watch your thoughts; they become words. Watch your words; they become actions. Watch your actions; they become habit. Watch your habits; they become character. Watch your character; it becomes your destiny." -Lao Tzu
"Sometimes gain comes from losing,And sometimes loss comes from gaining" -Lao Tzu
"Here are the four fundamentals of true spirituality: recognize simplicity, cherish purity, reduce your possessions, diminish your desires. 20" -Lao Tzu
"Cuando la gente ya no teme tu poder es señal de que está llegando un gran poder." -Lao Tzu
"The wise ruler treats the good with goodness; and treats the not-so-good with goodness, too-- for goodness is its own reward. The wise ruler treats the faithful with good faith; the treats the unfaithful with good faith, too--  for good faith is its own reward." -Lao Tzu
"We gain by losing, Lose by gaining." -Lao Tzu
"In ancient times, as today, many people thought they could become enlightened by traveling to places they considered sacred. They visited holy lands; they went on pilgrimages. Unlike them, Tao cultivators recognized that spirituality came from within, and so they did not feel the need to search frantically all over the material world for enlightenment." -Lao Tzu
"A journey of a thousand miles starts with a single step." -Lao Tzu
"All you grasp will be thrown away. All you hoard will be utterly lost." -Lao Tzu
"understanding the Tao helps remove us from a frame of mind that demands strict dualistic, either-or categories" -Lao Tzu
"The journey of a thousand miles begins with one step." -Lao Tzu
"Stiff, like a guest, Fluid, like thawing ice, Dense, like the un-carved block, Empty, like the valley," -Lao Tzu
"Si das pescado a un hombre hambriento, le nutres una jornada. Si le enseñas a pescar, le nutrirás toda la vida." -Lao Tzu
"Heaviness is the root of lightness:" -Lao Tzu
"No presume, y por eso se destaca. No se muestra frente a otros, y por eso brilla. No alardea sobre sí, por eso recibe reconocimiento. No elogia sus logros, por eso perdura por largo tiempo. Debido a que no compite, nadie puede competir con él." -Lao Tzu
"Si demasiada Energía es usada, le sigue el agotamiento." -Lao Tzu
"To speak infrequently Is natural. So a strong wind won't last all morning," -Lao Tzu
"The worldHe who changes it will destroy it.He who seizes it will lose it." -Lao Tzu
"Those who know don't talk. Those who talk don't know." -Lao Tzu
"If you overesteem great men,people become powerless.If you overvalue possessions,people begin to steal.The Master leadsby emptying people's mindsand filling their cores,by weakening their ambitionand toughening their resolve.He helps people lose everythingthey know, everything they desire,and creates confusionin those who think that they know." -Lao Tzu
"Akıllı adam yarışmaz, böylece kimse ona karşı kazanamaz." -Lao Tzu
"When people see some things as beautiful, other things become ugly. When people see some things as good, other things become bad. Being and non-being create each other. Difficult and easy support each other. Long and short define each other. High and low depend on each other. Before and after follow each other." -Lao Tzu
"What is meant by saying that honour and great calamity are to be (similarly) regarded as personal conditions? What makes me liable to great calamity is my having the body (which I call myself); if I had not the body, what great calamity could come to me?吾有大患，及吾有身；及吾无身，吾有何患" -Lao Tzu
"The whole world recognizes the beautiful as the beautiful, yet this is only the ugly; the whole world recognizes the good as the good, yet this is only the bad." -Lao Tzu
"Sages emulate the Mystic Virtue in their interactions with other people. They nurture, encourage, teach, and mentor those around them without the need to possess, gloat, or dominate." -Lao Tzu
"Thus Something and Nothing produce each other; The difficult and the easy complement each other;" -Lao Tzu
"Without going abroad, you can have knowledge of the world. Without gazing at the stars, you can perceive the heavenly Tao. The more you wander, the less you know. The wise explore without traveling, discern without seeing, finish without striving, and arrive at their destination without leaving home." -Lao Tzu
"on" -Lao Tzu
"Things exalted then decay.This is going against the Way.What goes against the Way meets an early end." -Lao Tzu
"The Master arrives without leaving,sees the light without looking,achieves without doing a thing." -Lao Tzu
"Acting while knowing The constant is balance." -Lao Tzu
"See others as yourself.See families as your family.See towns as your town.See countries as your country.See worlds as your world.How do I know that the world is such?By this." -Lao Tzu
"O Tao imaginou o Um, o Um exalou o Dois, o Dois é pai do Três e o Três, pai de todas as coisas." -Lao Tzu
"The reason I have great trouble is that I have a body. When I no longer have a body, what trouble have I? (30a)" -Lao Tzu
"The wise, while valuing themselves,  do not overestimate themselves. They reject flattery and gain true merit." -Lao Tzu
"The uses of notThirty spokes meet in the hub.Where the wheel isn't is where it's useful.Hollowed out,clay makes a pot.Where the pot's not is where it's useful.Cut doors and windows to make a room.Where the room isn't,there's room for you.So the profit in what is is in the use of what isn't." -Lao Tzu
"The greatest ruler is one they know from of old. The next is one they love and praise. The next is one they fear. The next is one they despise." -Lao Tzu
"useful." -Lao Tzu
"A leader is best when people barely know that he exists, not so good when people obey and acclaim him, and worst when they despise him. Fail to honor people, They fail to honor you. But of a good leader, who talks little, when his work is done, his aims fulfilled, they will all say, 'We did this ourselves." -Lao Tzu
"靜勝躁，寒勝熱。清靜為天下正。" -Lao Tzu
"The most difficult things in the world Must be accomplished through the easiest. The greatest things in the world Must be accomplished through the smallest." -Lao Tzu
"There is no crime greater than having too many desires;1 There is no disaster greater than not being content; There is no misfortune greater than being covetous. 105aHence in being content,2 one will always have enough." -Lao Tzu
"If you try to cut wood like a master carpenter,you will only hurt your hand." -Lao Tzu
"The Tao Te Ching is an ancient Chinese Text, written in approximately the 6th century BC by Lao Tzu who was a record-keeper at the Zhou Dynasty court." -Lao Tzu
"Lo duro y lo rígido son propiedades de la muerte. Lo blando y flexible son propiedades de la vida." -Lao Tzu
"It's about how to stay happy and calm under all circumstances!' I yelled." -Lao Tzu
"It is simply in doing things noncoercivelyThat everything is governed properly." -Lao Tzu
"But when great rulers lead, the people are hardly aware of their existence." -Lao Tzu
"Produce, but possess nothing." -Lao Tzu
"Flattery and disgrace are both to be feared,  just as overeating and starvation are both harmful to the body. Flattery is fattening to the spirit; disgrace is emaciating. Over-concern is just as harmful as disregard. Treat yourself well,  but don't pamper yourself excessively." -Lao Tzu
"9 PRUDENCE If you continue filling a pail after it is full, the water will be wasted. If you continue grinding an axe after it is sharp, the edge will wear away. Who can protect a house full of gold and jewels? Excessive fortune brings about its own misfortune. To win true merit--to earn a good reputation-- you must be prudent. This is the way of the Tao." -Lao Tzu
"The excellence of the heart is profundity,The excellence of human relationships is kindness,The excellence of speech is sincerity,The excellence of government is fairness,The excellence of service is being effective,The excellence of action is timing.Above all, only do not struggle,Thus nothing will go wrong." -Lao Tzu
"To be proud with wealth and honor Is to sow seeds of one's own downfall." -Lao Tzu
"The Master sees things as they are,without trying to control them.She lets them go their own way,and resides at the center of the circle." -Lao Tzu
"Therefore, when the Way is lost there is virtue.When virtue is lost there is benevolence.When benevolence is lost there is righteousness.When righteousness is lost there are rituals.Rituals are the end of fidelity and honesty,And the beginning of confusion." -Lao Tzu
"Acoge la desgracia como agradable sorpresa, y estima la calamidad como a tu propio cuerpo.'¿Por qué debemos 'acoger la desgracia como agradable sorpresa'? Porque un estado humilde es un favor: caer en él es una agradable sorpresa, ¡y también la es el remontarlo! Por ello, debemos 'acoger la desgracia como agradable sorpresa'.¿Por qué debemos 'estimar la calamidad como a nuestro propio cuerpo'? Porque nuestro cuerpo es la fuente misma de nuestras calamidades. Si no tuviéramos cuerpo, ¿qué desgracias nos podrían suceder?" -Lao Tzu
"It's because the wise do not contend, That no one can contend with them." -Lao Tzu
"I observe myself and thus understand the others." -Lao Tzu
"Thus what we gain is Something, yet it is by virtue of Nothing that this can be put to use." -Lao Tzu
"Nothing in the world is soft and weak as water. But when attacking the hard and strong Nothing can conquer so easily. Weak overcomes strong, Soft overcomes hard. Everyone knows this, No one attains it." -Lao Tzu
"To recognize one's ignorance of unknowable things is mental health, and to be ignorant of knowable things is sickness. Only by grieving over ignorance of knowable things are we in mental health. The wise man is wise because he understands his ignorance and is grieved over it" -Lao Tzu
"A man of old would not have given a hair even if he could have benefited the empire by doing so, but neither would he have accepted the empire were it offered to him for his exclusive enjoyment." -Lao Tzu
"He who knows other men is discerning; he who knows himself is intelligent. He who overcomes others is strong; he who overcomes himself is mighty. He who is satisfied with his lot is rich; he who goes on acting with energy has a (firm) will." -Lao Tzu
"Know others by knowing yourself." -Lao Tzu
"Students of the Tao follow principles rather than particular individuals." -Lao Tzu
"Excessive fortune brings about its own misfortune." -Lao Tzu
"Musik di dalam jiwa dapat didengar oleh alam semesta." -Lao Tzu
"To lead people, walk behind them" -Lao Tzu
"kuwajua wengine ni hekima, kujijua mwenyewe ni maarifa makubwa" -Lao Tzu
"Seeing details is called clarity,Holding on to the soft is called strength,Utilize the light,Return to the clarity,Leaving no disasters for the self,This is called practicing constancy" -Lao Tzu
"How can you follow the course of your life you do not let it flow?" -Lao Tzu
"Whether it takes the form of rain or snow, water follows the timing of natural events. We are the same way. We live each day following its natural flow, and take appropriate actions at the appropriate times." -Lao Tzu
"To be 'outside of oneself' in this context means to be unconcerned with one's well-being, to disregard one's body, or to sacrifice oneself. This can be seen as another Tao paradox: we can advance our own 'selfish' agenda by being totally selfless." -Lao Tzu
"This gift is a dead thing, too. In that respect it is no different from other books. Remember : you can make it come alive by putting what it says into actual practice. When you do so, you will see me ... in the Tao." -Lao Tzu
"Such is the nature of desires and attachments. That which you desire tends to bind you; relinquishing or reducing the desire tends to free you." -Lao Tzu
"Swift horses are curbed for hauling dung-carts in the field.When Tao does not reign in the world,War horses are bred on the commons outside the cities.There is no greater crime than seeking what men desire;There is no greater misery than knowing no content;There is no greater calamity than indulging in greed.Therefore the contentment of knowing content will ever be contented." -Lao Tzu
"This determination of value can be rather arbitrary. For instance, what intrinsic goodness does gold have that makes it so much more valuable than other metals? What is so great about gold other than a particular numerical value that people determine and agree upon? In general, whenever we point to anything as desirable, a wave of disruption ripples through society. People begin to think of ways to get more of the desirable thing, often at the expense of others." -Lao Tzu
"The feminine principle refers to the yin principle of serenity and quietude. The opening and closing of the gate refers to the mind in motion and at rest. Together, these two lines describe a mental state that remains tranquil even when thought processes are active--a state that is simultaneously peaceful and dynamic." -Lao Tzu
"Water is versatile. It conforms to the shape of any container. Following this, we also cultivate flexibility and adaptability. Because the world is continually changing, we make constant adjustments to handle new challenges." -Lao Tzu
"The inscription behind the flame reads wu ji, meaning 'without boundaries' and referring to the infinity of existence." -Lao Tzu
"They work with myriad things but do not control  They create but do not possess  They act but do not presume  They succeed but do not dwell on success  It is because they do not dwell on success  That it never goes away" -Lao Tzu
"Books are dead things, Commander,' said Lao Tzu. 'They contain the words of people long gone. The only way to gain living wisdom from dead books is by applying their words to life." -Lao Tzu
"Follow the course that the Way of Nature sets, and soon you will no longer need to go round laboriously advertising goodness and duty....The swan does not need a daily bath in order to remain white." -Lao Tzu
"For instance, no metal is absolutely free of impurities. In fact, hardly anything in nature is absolutely pure. We can get close to 100 percent purity but never quite reach that absolute state. It is the same with people. Absolute good and evil can exist as concepts, but we will never find them in human beings. We are all mixtures of varying proportions. None of us is any one thing." -Lao Tzu
"Water is the most fitting metaphor for the Tao. Water always flows to the lowest place, not because it is forced to do so, but because it follows its own nature. We also place ourselves lower, not because we contrive to do so, but because it is our nature to be humble. A deep pool of water is much more than its surface. Likewise, there is more to a Tao cultivator than meets the eye. The more people get to know us, the more they will discover." -Lao Tzu
"The emptiness of the Tao is not a vacuous state of nothingness, because its infinite depths conceal the seeds of Creation. There appears to be nothing in the Tao, and yet it contains everything. It is the 'pregnant void,' a field of unlimited potentialities." -Lao Tzu
"Do not glorify the achievers  So the people will not squabble  Do not treasure goods that are hard to obtain  So the people will not become thieves  Do not show the desired things  So their hearts will not be confused1" -Lao Tzu
"Certainly. The scope may change but the Tao remains constant no matter who you are. Royalty or commoner--it makes no difference to the Tao." -Lao Tzu
"What will happen when we reach the summit? We will look around and take in the magnificent, panoramic view. From the vantage point at the top, we will be able to see other mountains in the hazy distance. We may rest for a bit; we may spend a moment in celebration. Then, we will start out for the next destination, savoring every breath of fresh air and every sight of natural beauty." -Lao Tzu
"The wise humble themselves-- and because of their humility, they are worthy of praise. They put others first, and so become great. They are not focused on outcomes or achievements; therefore they always succeed." -Lao Tzu
"Water administers to everything equally. It slakes the thirst of the kind person just as it does the unkind person. Thus, we also do not pick and choose the recipients of the benefits we provide." -Lao Tzu
"Water gives itself to everything without protest. Like water, we do not engage in petty squabbles, because our only wish is to be of service." -Lao Tzu
"The truth is that the Tao isn't just about freedom and personal liberty ; it is also about discipline and diligence. While everything in existence is indeed the Tao, our path through existence is also the Tao. This may seem like a paradox, but it really isn't. We can see it clearly by following the thought process of the sages. Think of existence as a forest. When we are in the forest, we have the ability to go forth in any direction. The forest doesn't care which path we take. It is the nature of the forest to offer all directions and all possibilities. This is the way of the forest--in other words, the Tao of existence." -Lao Tzu
"Self-serving desires tend to limit us to a superficial level. If we think of other people and not just focus on ourselves, we will find it much easier to connect with the underlying reality. This applies to every aspect of life. It is one of the most powerful teachings of the Tao." -Lao Tzu
"Straying' refers to deviating from centered oneness, caused by the distractions of the material. Some translations render it as 'separation' or 'division,' thus obscuring the original meaning and making these lines more difficult to understand." -Lao Tzu
"To withdraw oneself does not mean to retreat from society and become a hermit. It means there is no need to brag about your achievements, take on pompous airs, or put on showy displays. Once you have achieved success and fame, it is best to step gracefully, quietly aside." -Lao Tzu
"By the time Lao Tzu walked the Earth 2,500 years ago, the concept of the Tao had already been an integral part of Chinese culture for thousands of years. As the story puts it, Lao Tzu was looking to get away, not found a movement; by writing the Tao Te Ching, he was simply honoring a request to pass on the learning and knowledge of those who had preceded him." -Lao Tzu
"There is no secret. I use the Tao. Anyone can do the same thing--avoid danger and enjoy peace--through diligent cultivation of the Tao." -Lao Tzu
"Heaven and Earth are everlasting  The reason Heaven and Earth can last forever  Is that they do not exist for themselves  Thus they can last forever1" -Lao Tzu
"The highest rulers, people do not know they have them1 The next level, people love them and praise them The next level, people fear them The next level, people despise them2 If the rulers' trust is insufficient Have no trust in them Proceeding calmly, valuing their words Task accomplished, matter settled The people all say, 'We did it naturally'3" -Lao Tzu
"A good commander achieves result, then stops And does not dare to reach for domination Achieves result but does not brag Achieves result but does not flaunt Achieves result but is not arrogant Achieves result but only out of necessity Achieves result but does not dominate3 Things become strong and then get old This is called contrary to the Tao That which is contrary to the Tao soon ends4 31" -Lao Tzu
"The original Chinese characters bu ren are often mistranslated as 'ruthless' or 'without compassion.' This produces statements at odds with reality, because real-life sages are compassionate individuals--hardly ruthless. The true meaning of bu ren is that the Tao does not play favorites. The rain waters weeds and orchids equally; the sun shines on everyone with the same brightness and warmth despite variations in individual merits. The sage, in emulating the Tao, also regards everyone in the same egalitarian light--none higher and none lower." -Lao Tzu
"At the cosmic level, the Tao of the macrocosm is represented by the laws of physics. They describe the universe and its manifestations, such as light, electricity, gravity, and so on. These things exist and have real effects no matter what we think of them. The gravity of the sun exerts its pull on the planets whether we 'believe' in it or not. At the personal level, the Tao of the microcosm is no less descriptive and useful. Its principles describe the human sphere and its manifestations, such as love, hate, peace, violence, and so on. These principles are just as real as the laws of physics; they function just as predictably and inexorably regardless of our opinions." -Lao Tzu