"To pass through this brief life as nature demands. To give it up without complaint. Like an olive that ripens and falls. Praising its mother, thanking the tree it grew on." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Wait for it patiently—annihilation or metamorphosis." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Nothing befalls anything which that thing is not naturally made to bear. The same experience befalls another, and he is unruffled and remains unharmed; either because he is unaware that it has happened or because he exhibits greatness of soul. Is it not strange that ignorance and complaisance are stronger than wisdom...?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"XV. Is any man so foolish as to fear change, to which all things that once were not owe their being? And" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Do the things external which fall upon thee distract thee? Give thyself time to learn something new and good, and cease to be whirled around. But then thou must also avoid being carried about the other way. For those too are triflers who have wearied themselves in life by their activity, and yet have no object to which to direct every movement, and, in a word, all their thoughts." -Marcus Aurelius 
"It is the act of an ill-instructed man to blame others for his own bad condition; it is the act of one who has begun to be instructed, to lay the blame on himself; and of one whose instruction is completed, neither to blame another, nor himself." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Art thou angry with him whose armpits stink? Art thou angry with him whose mouth smells foul? What good will this danger do thee? He has such a mouth, he has such arm-pits: it is necessary that such an emanation must come from such things- but the man has reason, it will be said, and he is able, if he takes pain, to discover wherein he offends- I wish thee well of thy discovery. Well then, and thou hast reason: by thy rational faculty stir up his rational faculty; show him his error, admonish him. For if he listens, thou wilt cure him, and there is no need of anger." -Marcus Aurelius 
"The art of living is more like wrestling than dancing, in as much as it, too, demands a from and watchful stance against any unexpected onset" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Everywhere and continually it is in your power to be reverently content with your present circumstance, to behave to men who are present with you according to right and to handle skillfully the present impression, that nothing you have not mastered may cross the threshold of the mind." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Just remember: you can endure anything your mind can make endurable, by treating it as in your interest to do so. In your interest, or in your nature." -Marcus Aurelius 
"The mind adapts and converts to its own purposes the obstacle to our acting. The impediment to action advances action. What stands in the way becomes the way. 21." -Marcus Aurelius 
"All men die, but that not all men die whining" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Though thou shouldst be going to live three thousand years, and as many times ten thousand years, still remember that no man loses any other life than this which he now lives, nor lives any other than this which he now loses." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Finally, therefore, remember your retreat into this little domain which is yourself, and above all be not disturbed nor on the rack, but be free and look at things as a man, a human being, a citizen, a creature that must die." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Is any man afraid of change? Why what can take place without change? What then is more pleasing or more suitable to the universal nature? And canst thou take a bath unless the wood undergoes a change? And canst thou be nourished, unless the food undergoes a change? And can anything else that is useful be accomplished without change?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Nature did not blend things so inextricably that you can’t draw your own boundaries—place your own well-being in your own hands. It’s quite possible to be a good man without anyone realizing it. Remember that. And this too: you don’t need much to live happily. And just because you’ve abandoned your hopes of becoming a great thinker or scientist, don’t give up on attaining freedom, achieving humility, serving others, obeying God." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Don’t look down on death, but welcome it. It too is one of the things required by nature. Like youth and old age. Like growth and maturity. Like a new set of teeth, a beard, the first gray hair. Like sex and pregnancy and childbirth. Like all the other physical changes at each stage of life, our dissolution is no different. So this is how a thoughtful person should await death: not with indifference, not with impatience, not with disdain, but simply viewing it as one of the things that happen to us. Now you anticipate the child’s emergence from its mother’s womb; that’s how you should await the hour when your soul will emerge from its compartment." -Marcus Aurelius 
"لكل شيء في الطبيعة دوره في حبكة الكل , حتى النائم وحتى المخرب ..حتى مخلفات الطبيعة وعوارضها الضارة هي نواتج بعدية للنبيل والجميل" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Don’t be anxious. Nature controls it all. And before long you’ll be no one, nowhere." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Reject your sense of injury, and the injury itself disappears." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Do not disturb yourself by thinking of the whole of your life. Do not let your thoughts at once embrace all the various troubles that you may expect to befall you: but on every occasion ask yourself, What is there in this that is intolerable and past bearing? For you will be ashamed to confess. In the next place remember that neither the future nor the past pains you, but only the present. But this is reduced to a very little, if you only circumscribe it and chide your mind, if it is unable to hold out against even this." -Marcus Aurelius 
"He who follows reason in all things is both tranquil and active at the same time, and also cheerful and collected." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Do nothing against thy will, nor contrary to the community, nor without due examination, nor with reluctancy." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Think, let us say, of the times of Vespasian; and what do you see? Men and women busy marrying, bringing up children, sickening, dying, fighting, feasting, chaffering, farming, flattering, bragging, envying, scheming, calling down curses, grumbling at fate, loving, hoarding, coveting thrones and dignities. Of all that life, not a trace survives today. Or come forward to the days of Trajan; again, it is the same; that life, too, has perished. Take a similar look at the records of other past ages and peoples; mark how one and all, after their short-lived strivings, passed away and were resolved into the elements. More especially, recall some who, within your own knowledge, have followed after vanities instead of contenting themselves with a resolute performance of the duties for which they were created. In such cases it is essential to remind ourselves that the pursuit of any object depends for its value upon the worth of the object pursued. If, then, you would avoid discouragement, never become unduly absorbed in things that are not of the first importance." -Marcus Aurelius 
"on every occasion a man should ask himself, Is this one of the unnecessary things?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Wherever you go, there you are—the same person, with the same patterns of thought." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Every portion of me will be reassigned as another portion of the world, and that in turn transformed into another. Ad infinitum." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Sixth, consider when thou art much vexed or grieved, that man's life is only a moment, and after a short time we are all laid out dead." -Marcus Aurelius 
"To pursue the impossible is madness: but it is impossible for evil men not to do things of this sort." -Marcus Aurelius 
"قيل لزينون أي الملوك أفضل: ملك اليونانيين أم الفرس؟ قال: من ملك شهوته وغضبه" -Marcus Aurelius 
"To the best of my judgment, when I look at the human character I see no virtue placed there to counter justice. But I see one to counter pleasure: self-control." -Marcus Aurelius 
"الكتابة ارتقاء من الخصوصية إلى العمومية، تحقيق لما هو كامن في العقل، وتحديد لما هو غائم، وتثبيت لما هو هائم. بل هي بحث عن المجهول منن خبايا النفس، ومعرفة بما هو ضائع في تضاعيف الذات. لست أعرف بالضبط ما أنا أفكر فيه؛ ربما لذلك شرعت في كتابته" -Marcus Aurelius 
"As surgeons have ever their knives and instruments at hand for the sudden emergencies of their art, so do you keep ready the principles requisite for understanding things divine and human, and for doing all things, even the least important, in the remembrance of the bond between the two. For in neglecting this, you will scant your duty both to Gods and men." -Marcus Aurelius 
"everything which belongs to the body is a stream, and what belongs to the soul is a dream" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Remember: Matter. How tiny your share of it. Time. How brief and fleeting your allotment of it. Fate. How small a role you play in it." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Make for yourself a definition or description of the thing that is presented to you, so as to see distinctly what kind of a thing it is in its substance, in its nudity, in its entirety, and tell yourself its proper name and the names of the things of which it has been compounded and into which it will be resolved. For nothing so promotes elevation of mind as the ability to examine methodically and truly every object that is presented to you in life, and always to look at things so as to see at the same time what kind of universe this is, and what kind of use everything performs in it, and what value everything has with reference to the whole, and what with reference to man, who is a citizen of the highest city, of which all other cities are like families; what each thing is, its composition and duration, and what virtue I need bring to it, such as gentleness, manliness, truth, fidelity, simplicity, contentment, and the rest." -Marcus Aurelius 
"The prime principle then in man’s constitution is the social. And the second is not to yield to the persuasions of the body,—for it is the peculiar office of the rational and intelligent motion to circumscribe itself, and never to be overpowered either by the motion of the senses or of the appetites, for both are animal: but the intelligent motion claims superiority, and does not permit itself to be overpowered by the others." -Marcus Aurelius 
"In all his conversation, far from all inhumanity, all boldness, and incivility, all greediness and impetuosity; never doing anything with such earnestness, and intention, that a man could say of him, that he did sweat about it: but contrariwise, all things distinctly, as at leisure; without trouble; orderly, soundly, and agreeably." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Casting therefore all other things aside, keep thyself to these few, and remember withal that no man properly can be said to live more than that which is now present, which is but a moment of time." -Marcus Aurelius 
"to conclude the matter, what is even an eternal remembrance? A mere nothing. What then is that about which we ought to employ our serious pains? This one thing, thoughts just, and acts social, and words which never lie, and a disposition which gladly accepts all that happens, as necessary, as usual, as flowing from a principle and source of the same kind." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Call to mind the whole of Substance of which you have a very small portion, and the whole of time whereof a small hair's breadth has been determined for you, and of the chain of causation whereof you are how small a link." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Consider the nature of all worldly sensible things; of those especially, which either ensnare by pleasure, or for their irksomeness are dreadful, or for their outward lustre and show are in great esteem and request, how vile and contemptible, how base and corruptible, how destitute of all true life and being they are." -Marcus Aurelius 
"الزهو بالخلو من الزهو هو أثقل ضروب الزهو وأصعبها على الاحتمالأثقل الغرور التواضع الزائف" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Every man’s happiness depends from himself, but behold thy life is almost at an end, whiles affording thyself no respect, thou dost make thy happiness to consist in the souls, and conceits of other men." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Remember, however, that you are formed by nature to bear everything whose tolerability depends on your own opinion to make it so, by thinking that it is in your interest or duty to do so." -Marcus Aurelius 
"That way you'll see human life for what it is. Smoke. Nothing. Especially when you recall that once things alter they cease to exist through all the endless years to come. Then why such turmoil?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"The pomps and glories which he despised were all his; what to most men is an ambition or a dream, to him was a round of weary tasks which nothing but the stern sense of duty could carry him through. And he did his work well." -Marcus Aurelius 
"If our intellectual part is common, the reason also, in respect of which we are rational beings, is common: if this is so, common also is the reason which commands us what to do, and what not to do; if this is so, there is a common law also; if this is so, we are fellow-citizens; if this is so, we are members of some political community; if this is so, the world is in a manner a state." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Thou art a little soul bearing about a corpse, as Epictetus used to say. It is no evil for things to undergo change, and no good for things to subsist in consequence of change." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Let the part of your soul that leads and governs be undisturbed by the movements in the flesh, whether of pleasure or of pain; and let it not unite with them, but let it circumscribe itself and limit those affects to their parts. But when these affects rise up to the mind by virtue of that other sympathy that naturally exists in a body that is all one, then you must not strive to resist the sensation, for it is natural: but do not let the ruling part of itself add to the sensation the opinion that it is either good or bad." -Marcus Aurelius 
"The power which rules within us, when its state is accordant with nature, so acts in every occurrence as easily to adapt itself to all present or possible situations. It requires no set material to work upon, but, under proper reservation, needs but the incitement to pursue, and makes matter for its activities out of every opposition. Even so a fire masters that which is cast upon it, and though a small flame would have been extinguished, your great blaze quickly makes the added fuel its own, consumes it, and grows mightier therefrom." -Marcus Aurelius 
"No malgastes lo que te queda de vida en conjeturar sobre los demás, a no ser que busques el bien común; pues si te dedicas a imaginar qué hace la gente, por qué, qué dice, que piensa, qué trama, y cosas parecidas, dejarás de observar tu propia conciencia interior." -Marcus Aurelius 
"30. A philosopher without clothes and one without books. "I have nothing to eat,” says he, as he stands there half-naked, "but I subsist on the logos.” And with nothing to read, I subsist on it too." -Marcus Aurelius 
"This world is mere change, and this life, opinion." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Enter their minds, and you'll find the judges you're so afraid of—and how judiciously they judge themselves." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Do the things external which fall upon thee distract thee? Give thyself time to learn something new and good, and cease to be whirled around. But then thou must also avoid being carried about the other way; for those too are triflers who have wearied themselves in life by their activity, and yet have no object to which to direct every movement, and, in a word, all their thoughts." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Remember, however, that thou art formed by nature to bear everything, with respect to which it depends on thy own opinion to make it endurable and tolerable, by thinking that it is either thy interest or thy duty to do this." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Man must consider, not only that each day part of his life is spent, and that less and less remains to him, but also that, even if he live longer, it is very uncertain whether his intelligence will suffice as heretofore for the understanding of his affairs, and for grasping that knowledge which aims at comprehending things human and divine. When dotage begins, breath, nourishment, fancy, impulse, and so forth will not fail him. But self-command, accurate appreciation of duty, power to scrutinize what strikes his senses, or even to decide whether he should take his departure, all powers, indeed, which demand a well-trained understanding, must be extinguished in him. Let him be up and doing then, not only because death comes nearer every day, but because understanding and intelligence often leave us before we die." -Marcus Aurelius 
"You have sent a letter to me through the hand of a friend of yours, as you call him. And in your very next sentence you warn me not to discuss with him all the matters that concern you, saying that even you yourself are not accustomed to do this; in other words, you have in the same letter affirmed and denied that he is your friend." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Because most of what we say and do is not essential. If you can eliminate it, you’ll have more time, and more tranquillity. Ask yourself at every moment, "Is this necessary?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Among the animals which have not reason one life is distributed; but among reasonable animals one intelligent soul is distributed: just as there is one earth of all things which are of an earthy nature, and we see by one light, and breathe one air, all of us that have the faculty of vision and all that have life. All" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Other people’s mistakes? Leave them to their makers." -Marcus Aurelius 
"XII. From Claudius Maximus, in all things to endeavour to have power of myself, and in nothing to be carried about; to be cheerful and courageous in all sudden chances and accidents, as in sicknesses: to love mildness, and moderation, and gravity: and to do my business, whatsoever it be, thoroughly, and without querulousness. Whatsoever he said, all men believed him that as he spake, so he thought, and whatsoever he did, that he did it with a good intent. His manner was, never to wonder at anything; never to be in haste, and yet never slow: nor to be perplexed, or dejected, or at any time unseemly, or excessively to laugh: nor to be angry, or suspicious, but ever ready to do good, and to forgive, and to speak truth; and all this, as one that seemed rather of himself to have been straight and right, than ever to have been rectified or redressed; neither was there any man that ever thought himself undervalued by him, or that could find in his heart, to think himself a better man than he. He would also be very pleasant and gracious." -Marcus Aurelius 
"A man without ever the least appearance of anger, or any other passion; able at the same time most exactly to observe the Stoic Apathia, or unpassionateness, and yet to be most tender-hearted: ever of good credit; and yet almost without any noise, or rumour: very learned, and yet making little show." -Marcus Aurelius 
"5. Thou sayest, Men cannot admire the sharpness of thy wits.—Be it so: but there are many other things of which thou canst not say, I am not formed from them by nature. Show those qualities then which are altogether in thy power, sincerity, gravity, endurance of labor, aversion to pleasure, contentment with thy portion and with few things, benevolence, frankness, no love of superfluity, freedom from trifling, magnanimity. Dost thou not see how many qualities thou art immediately able to exhibit, in which there is no excuse of natural incapacity and unfitness, and yet thou still remainest voluntarily below the mark? or art thou compelled through being defectively furnished by nature to murmur, and to be stingy, and to flatter, and to find fault with thy poor body, and to try to please men, and to make great display, and to be so restless in thy mind? No, by the gods; but thou mightest have been delivered from these things long ago. Only if in truth thou canst be charged with being rather slow and dull of comprehension, thou must exert thyself about this also, not neglecting it nor yet taking pleasure in thy dullness." -Marcus Aurelius 
"For then thou wilt neither blame those who offend involuntarily, nor wilt thou want their approbation, if thou lookest to the sources of their opinions and appetites." -Marcus Aurelius 
"5. Every moment think steadily as a Roman and a man to do what thou hast in hand with perfect and simple dignity, and feeling of affection, and freedom, and justice; and to give thyself relief from all other thoughts. And thou wilt give thyself relief, if thou doest every act of thy life as if it were the last, laying aside all carelessness and passionate aversion from the commands of reason, and all hypocrisy, and self-love, and discontent with the portion which has been given to thee." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Change: nothing inherently bad in the process, nothing inherently good in the result." -Marcus Aurelius 
"So there are two reasons to embrace what happens. One is that it’s happening to you. It was prescribed for you, and it pertains to you. The thread was spun long ago, by the oldest cause of all. The other reason is that what happens to an individual is a cause of well-being in what directs the world—of its well-being, its fulfillment, of its very existence, even. Because the whole is damaged if you cut away anything—anything at all—from its continuity and its coherence. Not only its parts, but its purposes. And that’s what you’re doing when you complain: hacking and destroying." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Truly a rare opportunity was given to Marcus Aurelius of showing what the mind can do in despite of circumstances. Most peaceful of warriors, a magnificent monarch whose ideal was quiet happiness in home life, bent to obscurity yet born to greatness, the loving father of children who died young or turned out hateful, his life was one paradox. That nothing might lack, it was in camp before the face of the enemy that he passed away and went to his own place." -Marcus Aurelius 
"People out for posthumous fame forget that the Generations To Come will be the same annoying people they know now." -Marcus Aurelius 
"We must make haste then, not only because we are daily nearer death, but also because the conception of things and the understanding of them cease first." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Real good luck would be to abandon life without ever encountering dishonesty, or hypocrisy, or self-indulgence, or pride. But the "next best voyage” is to die when you’ve had enough. Or are you determined to lie down with evil? Hasn’t experience even taught you that—to avoid it like the plague? Because it is a plague—a mental cancer—worse than anything caused by tainted air or an unhealthy climate. Diseases like that can only threaten your life; this one attacks your humanity." -Marcus Aurelius 
"For times when you feel pain:See that it doesn’t disgrace you, or degrade yourintelligence—doesn’t keep it from acting rationally orunselfishly.And in most cases what Epicurus said should help: thatpain is neither unbearable nor unending, as long as you keepin mind its limits and don’t magnify them in your imagination.And keep in mind too that pain often comes in disguise—as drowsiness, fever, loss of appetite. . . . When you’rebothered by things like that, remind yourself: "I’m giving into pain." -Marcus Aurelius 
"The present is all that they can give up, since that is all you have, and what you do not have, you cannot lose." -Marcus Aurelius 
"It is no evil for things to undergo change, and no good for things to subsist in consequence of change. 43." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Neither worse then nor better is a thing made by being praised." -Marcus Aurelius 
"And he who pursues pleasure will not abstain from injustice, and this is plainly impiety." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Remember: philosophy requires only what your nature already demands. What you’ve been after is something else again—something unnatural." -Marcus Aurelius 
"It isn't ceasing to live that [I'm] afraid of but never beginning to live properlyز" -Marcus Aurelius 
"It is a shame when the soul is first to give way in this life, and the body does not give way." -Marcus Aurelius 
"It isn't ceasing to live that [I'm] afraid of but never beginning to live properly." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Es ridículo no intentar evitar tu propia maldad, lo cual es posible, y, en cambio, intentar evitar la de los demás, lo cual es lo imposible." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Remember that our efforts are subject to circumstances; you weren’t aiming to do the impossible. —Aiming to do what, then? To try. And you succeeded. What you set out to do is accomplished." -Marcus Aurelius 
"As for life therefore, and death, honour and dishonour, labour and pleasure, riches and poverty, all these things happen unto men indeed, both good and bad, equally; but as things which of themselves are neither good nor bad; because of themselves, neither shameful nor praiseworthy." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Independence and unvarying reliability, and to pay attentionto nothing, no matter how fleetingly, except the logos. And tobe the same in all circumstances—intense pain, the loss of achild, chronic illness. And to see clearly, from his example,that a man can show both strength and flexibility.His patience in teaching. And to have seen someone whoclearly viewed his expertise and ability as a teacher as thehumblest of virtues.And to have learned how to accept favors from friendswithout losing your self-respect or appearing ungrateful.On Apolonius" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Manage all your actions, words, and thoughts accordingly, since you may at any moment quit life." -Marcus Aurelius 
"If any man can convince and show me that I do not think or act right, I will gladly change; for I seek truth, by which no man was ever injured. But he is injured who abides in his error and ignorance." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Live as though today is your last day." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Not to know what the world is is to be ignorant of where you are. Not to know why it’s here is to be ignorant of who you are. And what it is. Not to know any of this is to be ignorant of why you’re here." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Perfection of character: to live your last day, every day, without frenzy, or sloth, or pretense" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Now forget what they think of you. Be satisfied if you can live the rest of your life, however short, as your nature demands. Focus on that, and don’t let anything distract you. You’ve wandered all over and finally realized that you never found what you were after: how to live. Not in syllogisms, not in money, or fame, or self-indulgence. Nowhere." -Marcus Aurelius 
"If you are distressed about anything, the pain is not one to the thing but to your own estimate to it." -Marcus Aurelius 
"When thou hast assumed these names, good, modest, true, rational, a man of equanimity, and magnanimous, take care that thou dost not change these names; and if thou shouldst lose them, quickly return to them. And remember that the term Rational was intended to signify a discriminating attention to every several thing and freedom from negligence; and that Equanimity is the voluntary acceptance of the things" -Marcus Aurelius 
"None of us have much time. And yet you act as if things were eternal—the way you fear and long for them.… Before long, darkness. And whoever buries you mourned in their turn." -Marcus Aurelius 
"He was taught to dress plainly and to live simply, to avoid all softness and luxury." -Marcus Aurelius 
"The freedom to do only what God wants, and accept whatever God sends us." -Marcus Aurelius 
"When you are offended at any man’s fault, immediately turn to yourself and reflect in what manner you yourself have erred:" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Go on abusing yourself, O my soul! Not long and you will lose the opportunity to show yourself any respect. We have only one life to live, and yours is almost over. Because you have chosen not to respect yourself, you have made your happiness subject to the opinions others have of you. (Book 2, Verse 6)" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Some things are hurrying into existence, and others are hurrying out of it;" -Marcus Aurelius 
"What man can you show me who places any value on his time, who reckons the worth of each day, who understands that he is dying daily? For we are mistaken when we look forward to death; the major portion of death has already passed. Whatever years be behind us are in death's hands." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Stoicism is thus from the outset a deterministic system that appears to leave no room for human free will or moral responsibility. In reality the Stoics were reluctant to accept such an arrangement, and attempted to get around the difficulty by defining free will as a voluntary accommodation to what is in any case inevitable. According to this theory, man is like a dog tied to a moving wagon. If the dog refuses to run along with the wagon he will be dragged by it, yet the choice remains his: to run or be dragged." -Marcus Aurelius 
"His education was conducted with all care. The ablest teachers were engaged for him, and he was trained in the strict doctrine of the Stoic philosophy, which was his great delight. He was taught to dress plainly and to live simply, to avoid all softness and luxury. His body was trained to hardihood by wrestling, hunting, and outdoor games; and though his constitution was weak, he showed great personal courage to encounter the fiercest boars. At the same time he was kept from the extravagancies of his day." -Marcus Aurelius 
"whilst yet thou livest, whilst thou mayest, be good." -Marcus Aurelius 
"tranquillity is nothing else than the good ordering of the mind." -Marcus Aurelius 
"A little wisp of soul carrying a corpse.”—Epictetus." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Continually, and, if possible, in the case of every mental image, consider its nature, realize its emotional content, and judge it rationally." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Time is a river, a violent current of events, glimpsed once and already carried past us, and another follows and is gone." -Marcus Aurelius 
"The way people behave. They refuse to admire their contemporaries, the people whose lives they share. No, but to be admired by Posterity -- people they've never met and never will -- that's what they set their hearts on. You might as well be upset at not being a hero to your great-grandfather." -Marcus Aurelius 
"The way to peace is to be content with yourself, honor the light of reason within, live in harmony with others, and be grateful to the gods for the universe and your role in it." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Some people, when they do someone a favor, are always looking for a chance to call it in. And some aren’t, but they’re still aware of it—still regard it as a debt. But others don’t even do that. They’re like a vine that produces grapes without looking for anything in return. A horse at the end of the race . . . A dog when the hunt is over . . . A bee with its honey stored . . . And a human being after helping others. They don’t make a fuss about it. They just go on to something else, as the vine looks forward to bearing fruit again in season. We should be like that. Acting almost unconsciously. —Yes. Except conscious of it. Because it’s characteristic of social beings that they see themselves as acting socially. And expect their neighbors to see it too! That’s true. But you’re misunderstanding me. You’ll wind up like the people I mentioned before, misled by plausible reasoning. But if you make an effort to understand what I’m saying, then you won’t need to worry about neglecting your social duty." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Constantly observe who those are whose approval you wish to have, and what ruling principles they possess. For then you will neither blame those who offend involuntarily, nor will you want their approval, if you look to the sources of their opinions and appetites." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Do, soul, do; abuse and contemn thyself; yet a while and the time for thee to respect thyself, will be at an end." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Yes, you can—if you do everything as if it were the last thing you were doing in your life, and stop being aimless, stop letting your emotions override what your mind tells you, stop being hypocritical, self-centered, irritable." -Marcus Aurelius 
"What am I doing with my soul? Interrogate yourself, to find out what inhabits your so-called mind and what kind of soul you have now. A child’s soul, an adolescent’s, a woman’s? A tyrant’s soul? The soul of a predator—or its prey?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"You are a spirit, bearing the weight of a dead body, as Epictetus used to say." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Think often the connection of all things in the world and their mutual relations, they are arguably intertwined with each other and thus have for each other a mutual friendship, and that under the connection that leads him and the unity of matter" -Marcus Aurelius 
"III. Hippocrates having cured many sicknesses, fell sick himself and died." -Marcus Aurelius 
"But cast away the thirst after books, that thou mayest not die murmuring, but cheerfully, truly, and from thy heart thankful to the gods." -Marcus Aurelius 
"For a man cannot lose either the past or the future: for what a man has not, how can any one take this from him?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Don’t be irritated at people’s smell or bad breath. What’s the point? With that mouth, with those armpits, they’re going to produce that odor. —But they have a brain! Can’t they figure it out? Can’t they recognize the problem? So you have a brain as well. Good for you. Then use your logic to awaken his. Show him. Make him realize it. If he’ll listen, then you’ll have solved the problem. Without anger." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Finally, in every event which leads you to sorrow, remember to use this principle: that this is not a misfortune, but that to bear it like a brave man is good fortune." -Marcus Aurelius 
"..a man cannot lose a thing if he has it not." -Marcus Aurelius 
"The mind is that which is roused and directed by itself. It makes of itself what it chooses. It makes what it chooses of its own experience." -Marcus Aurelius 
"How unsound and insincere is he who says, I have determined to deal with thee in a fair way.—What art thou doing, man?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"A prudent governor will not roughly oppose even the superstitions of his people; and though he may wish they were wiser, he will know that he cannot make them so by offending their prejudices." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Her şey düşüncenin verdiği biçimi alır. Ve düşüncenizin kontrolü sizin elinizdedir. Dolayısıyla yargılarınızı ortadan kaldırmaya karar verdiğinizde huzura kavuşursunuz. Tıpkı, burnu dolaşan bir denizcinin sakin suya, dalgasız bir koya erişmesi gibi." -Marcus Aurelius 
"finally, waiting for death with a cheerful mind, as being nothing else than a dissolution of the elements of which every living being is compounded." -Marcus Aurelius 
"We live only in the present, in this fleet-footed moment. The rest is lost and behind us, or ahead of us and may never be found. Little of life we know, little the plot of earth on which we dwell, little the memory of even the most famous who have lived, and this memory itself is preserved by generations of little men, who know little about themselves and far less about those who died long ago. (Book 3, Verse 10)" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Inquire of yourself as soon as you wake from sleep, whether it will make any difference to you, if another does what is just and right. It will make no difference." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Consider how quickly all things are dissolved and resolved: the bodies and substances themselves, into the matter and substance of the world: and their memories into the general age and time of the world." -Marcus Aurelius 
"To be cheerful, and to stand in no need, either of other men's help or attendance, or of that rest and tranquillity, which thou must be beholding to others for. Rather like one that is straight of himself, or hath ever been straight, than one that hath been rectified." -Marcus Aurelius 
"When you wake up in the morning, tell yourself: The people I deal with today will be meddling, ungrateful, arrogant, dishonest, jealous, and surly. They are like this because they can’t tell good from evil. But I have seen the beauty of good, and the ugliness of evil, and have recognized that the wrongdoer has a nature related to my own—not of the same blood or birth, but the same mind, and possessing a share of the divine." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Death. The end of sense-perception, of being controlled by our emotions, of mental activity, of enslavement to our bodies." -Marcus Aurelius 
"consider that for whatever purpose each thing has been constituted, for this it has been constituted, and towards this it is carried; and its end is in that towards which it is carried; and where the end is, there also is the advantage and the good of each thing. Now the good for the reasonable animal is society; for that we are made for society has been shown above." -Marcus Aurelius 
"I am composed of a body and a soul. Things that happen to the body are meaningless. It cannot discriminate among them. Nothing has meaning to my mind except its own actions. Which are within its own control. And it’s only the immediate ones that matter. Its past and future actions too are meaningless." -Marcus Aurelius 
"And why is it so hard when things go against you? If it’s imposed by nature, accept it gladly and stop fighting it. And if not, work out what your own nature requires, and aim at that, even if it brings you no glory." -Marcus Aurelius 
"If the gods have made decisions about me and the things that happen to me, then they were good decisions. (It’s hard to picture a god who makes bad ones.) And why would they expend their energies on causing me harm? What good would it do them—or the world, which is their primary concern? And if they haven’t made decisions about me as an individual, they certainly have about the general welfare. And anything that follows from that is something I have to welcome and embrace. And if they make no decisions, about anything—and it’s blasphemous even to think so (because if so, then let’s stop sacrificing, praying, swearing oaths, and doing all the other things we do, believing the whole time that the gods are right here with us)—if they decide nothing about our lives . . . well, I can still make decisions. Can still consider what it’s to my benefit to do. And what benefits anyone is to do what his own nature requires. And mine is rational. Rational and civic. My city and state are Rome—as Antoninus. But as a human being? The world. So for me, "good” can only mean what’s good for both communities." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Fire feeds on obstacles" -Marcus Aurelius 
"For there is no retreat that is quieter or freer from trouble than a man’s own soul, especially when he has within him such thoughts that by looking into them he is immediately in perfect tranquillity; and tranquillity is nothing else than the good ordering of the mind." -Marcus Aurelius 
"No longer wander at hazard; for neither wilt thou read thy own memoirs, nor the acts of the ancient Romans and Hellenes, and the selections from books which thou wast reserving for thy old age. Hasten then to the end which thou hast before thee, and throwing away idle hopes, come to thy own aid, if thou carest at all for thyself, while it is in thy power." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Not to be offended with other men's liberty of speech, and to apply myself unto philosophy." -Marcus Aurelius 
"At some point you have to recognize what world it is that you belong to; what power rules it and from what source you spring; that there is a limit to the time assigned you, and if you don’t use it to free yourself it will be gone and will never return." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Note that everything that happens, happens justly, and if you observe carefully, you will find it to be so, not only with respect to the continuity of the series of things, but with respect to what is just, as if it were done by one who assigns to each thing its value." -Marcus Aurelius 
"All that comes to pass is as familiar and well known as the rose in spring, and the grape in summer. Of like fashion are sickness, death, calumny, intrigue, and all that gladdens or saddens the foolish." -Marcus Aurelius 
"He is a fugitive, he who flees from the reason that governs our soicial life; a blind man, he who closes the eyes of his mind; a beggar, he who depends on another and does not possess within himself all that is necessary for life; an abscess on the body of the universe, he who sets himself apart and cuts himself off from the reason of our common nature because he is dissatisfied with what comes to pass; for this is brought about by the same order of nature that brought you too into being." -Marcus Aurelius 
"to believe those things, which are commonly spoken, by such as take upon them to work wonders, and by sorcerers, or prestidigitators, and impostors; concerning the power of charms, and their driving out of demons, or evil spirits; and the like. Not to keep quails for the game; nor to be mad after such things. Not to be offended with other men's liberty of speech, and to apply myself unto philosophy. Him also I must thank, that ever I heard first Bacchius, then Tandasis and Marcianus, and that I did write dialogues in my youth; and that I took liking to the philosophers' little couch and skins, and such other things, which by the Grecian discipline are proper to those who profess philosophy." -Marcus Aurelius 
"As for thy thirst after books, away with it with all speed." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Body. Soul. Mind. Sensations: the body. Desires: the soul. Reasoning: the mind. To experience sensations: even grazing beasts do that. To let your desires control you: even wild animals do that—and rutting humans, and tyrants (from Phalaris to Nero . . .). To make your mind your guide to what seems best: even people who deny the gods do that. Even people who betray their country. Even people who do <. . .> behind closed doors. If all the rest is common coin, then what is unique to the good man? To welcome with affection what is sent by fate. Not to stain or disturb the spirit within him with a mess of false beliefs. Instead, to preserve it faithfully, by calmly obeying God—saying nothing untrue, doing nothing unjust. And if the others don’t acknowledge it—this life lived with simplicity, humility, cheerfulness—he doesn’t resent them for it, and isn’t deterred from following the road where it leads: to the end of life. An end to be approached in purity, in serenity, in acceptance, in peaceful unity with what must be." -Marcus Aurelius 
"And those who complain and try to obstruct and thwart things—they help as much as anyone. The world needs them as well." -Marcus Aurelius 
"To love only what happens, what was destined. No greater harmony." -Marcus Aurelius 
"It stares you in the face. No role is so well suited to philosophy as the one you happen to be in right now." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Reverence that which is best in the universe; and this is that which makes use of all things and directs all things. And in like manner also reverence that which is best in thyself; and this is of the same kind as that. For in thyself also, that which makes use of everything else, is this, and thy life is directed by this." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Thou art an old man; no longer let this be a slave, no longer be pulled by the strings like a puppet to unsocial movements, no longer either be dissatisfied with thy present lot, or shrink from the future. All" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Beautiful things of any kind are beautiful in themselves and sufficient to themselves. Praise is extraneous. The object of praise remains what it was—no better and no worse." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Even if you’re going to live three thousand more years, or ten times that, remember: you cannot lose another life than the one you’re living now, or live another one than the one you’re losing. The longest amounts to the same as the shortest. The present is the same for everyone; its loss is the same for everyone; and it should be clear that a brief instant is all that is lost. For you can’t lose either the past or the future; how could you lose what you don’t have? Remember two things: i. that everything has always been the same, and keeps recurring, and it makes no difference whether you see the same things recur in a hundred years or two hundred, or in an infinite period; ii. that the longest-lived and those who will die soonest lose the same thing. The present is all that they can give up, since that is all you have, and what you do not have, you cannot lose." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Well, then, shall mere glory distract you? Look at the swiftness of the oblivion of all men; the gulf of endless time, behind and before; the hollowness of applause, the fickleness and folly of those who seem to speak well of you, and the narrow room in which it is confined. This should make you pause. For the entire earth is a point in space, and how small a corner thereof is this your dwelling place, and how few and how paltry those who will sing your praises here!" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Remember: philosophy requiresonly what your nature already demands." -Marcus Aurelius 
"These two things be common to the souls, as of God, so of men, and of every reasonable creature, first that in their own proper work hey cannot be hindered by anything: and secondly, that their happiness doth consist in a disposition to, and in the practice of righteousness; and that in these their desire is terminated." -Marcus Aurelius 
"He who is greedy of credit and reputation after his death, doth not consider, that they themselves by whom he is remembered, shall soon after every one of them be dead; and they likewise that succeed those; until at last all memory, which hitherto by the succession of men admiring and soon after dying hath had its course, be quite extinct." -Marcus Aurelius 
"You can discard most of the junk that clutters your mind—things that exist only there—and clear out space for yourself: . . . by comprehending the scale of the world . . . by contemplating infinite time . . . by thinking of the speed with which things change—each part of every thing; the narrow space between our birth and death; the infinite time before; the equally unbounded time that follows." -Marcus Aurelius 
"When you run up against someone else’s shamelessness, ask yourself this: Is a world without shamelessness possible? No. Then don’t ask the impossible. There have to be shameless people in the world. This is one of them. The same for someone vicious or untrustworthy, or with any other defect. Remembering that the whole class has to exist will make you more tolerant of its members. Another useful point to bear in mind: What qualities has nature given us to counter that defect? As an antidote to unkindness it gave us kindness. And other qualities to balance other flaws. And when others stray off course, you can always try to set them straight, because every wrongdoer is doing something wrong—doing something the wrong way. And how does it injure you anyway? You’ll find that none of the people you’re upset about has done anything that could do damage to your mind. But that’s all that "harm” or "injury” could mean. Yes, boorish people do boorish things. What’s strange or unheard-of about that? Isn’t it yourself you should reproach—for not anticipating that they’d act this way? The logos gave you the means to see it—that a given person would act a given way—but you paid no attention. And now you’re astonished that he’s gone and done it. So when you call someone "untrustworthy” or "ungrateful,” turn the reproach on yourself. It was you who did wrong. By assuming that someone with those traits deserved your trust. Or by doing them a favor and expecting something in return, instead of looking to the action itself for your reward. What else did you expect from helping someone out? Isn’t it enough that you’ve done what your nature demands? You want a salary for it too? As if your eyes expected a reward for seeing, or your feet for walking. That’s what they were made for. By doing what they were designed to do, they’re performing their function. Whereas humans were made to help others. And when we do help others—or help them to do something—we’re doing what we were designed for. We perform our function." -Marcus Aurelius 
"He that knoweth not what the world is, knoweth not where he himself is. And he that knoweth not what the world was made for, cannot possibly know either what are the qualities, or what is the nature of the world." -Marcus Aurelius 
"We are all mere nuggets of incense on the one altar. Some burn down now , some later - there is no difference ." -Marcus Aurelius 
"keeps in mind that all rational things are related, and that to care for all human beings is part of being human. Which" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Concentrate every minute like a Roman—like a man—on doing what’s in front of you with precise and genuine seriousness, tenderly, willingly, with justice. And on freeing yourself from all other distractions. Yes, you can—if you do everything as if it were the last thing you were doing in your life, and stop being aimless, stop letting your emotions override what your mind tells you, stop being hypocritical, self-centered, irritable. You see how few things you have to do to live a satisfying and reverent life? If you can manage this, that’s all even the gods can ask of you." -Marcus Aurelius 
"The highest good was the virtuous life. Virtue alone is happiness, and vice is unhappiness. Carrying this theory to its extreme, the Stoic said that there could be no gradations between virtue and vice, though of course each has its special manifestations." -Marcus Aurelius 
"If they’ve made a mistake, correct them gently and show them where they went wrong. If you can’t do that, then the blame lies with you. Or no one." -Marcus Aurelius 
"a ripe mature man, a perfect sound man; one that could not endure to be flattered; able to govern both himself and others." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Don’t let your imagination be crushed by life as a whole. Don’t try to picture everything bad that could possibly happen. Stick with the situation at hand, and ask, "Why is this so unbearable? Why can’t I endure it?” You’ll be embarrassed to answer. Then remind yourself that past and future have no power over you. Only the present—and even that can be minimized. Just mark off its limits. And if your mind tries to claim that it can’t hold out against that … well, then, heap shame upon it." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Let not the future trouble you; for you will come to it, if come you must, bearing with you the same reason which you are using now to meet the present." -Marcus Aurelius 
"It is high time for thee, to understand that there is somewhat in thee, better and more divine than either thy passions, or thy sensual appetites and affections" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Is any man so foolish as to fear change, to which all things that once were not owe their being? And what is it, that is more pleasing and more familiar to the nature of the universe?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"36. Man, thou hast been a citizen in this great state [the world]: what difference does it make to thee whether for five years [or three]? for that which is conformable to the laws is just for all. Where is the hardship then, if no tyrant nor yet an unjust judge sends thee away from the state, but nature who brought thee into it? the same as if a praetor who has employed an actor dismisses him from the stage. "But I have not finished the five acts, but only three of them.”—Thou sayest well, but in life the three acts are the whole drama; for what shall be a complete drama is determined by him who was once the cause of its composition, and now of its dissolution: but thou art the cause of neither. Depart then satisfied, for he also who releases thee is satisfied" -Marcus Aurelius 
"The ruler must be a philosopher as well as a king; and he must govern unwillingly, because he loves philosophy better than dominion." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Whatever happens to you has been waiting to happen since the beginning of time. The twining strands of fate wove both of them together: your own existence and the things that happen to you." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Does another do me wrong? Let him look to it. He has his own disposition, his own activity. I now have what the universal nature wills me to have; and I do what my nature now wills me to do." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Studying philosophy instills modesty and straightforwardness in your character." -Marcus Aurelius 
"ناور العقبات ، واتخذ منها وقوداً لفضيلتك ، واسع إلى مقاصدك بتحفظ يخفف عنك صدمة الاخفاق" -Marcus Aurelius 
"My mind. What is it? What am I making of it? What am I using it for? Is it empty of thought? Isolated and torn loose from those around it? Melted into flesh and blended with it, so that it shares its urges?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"I have no right to do myself an injury. Have I ever injured anyone else if I could avoid it?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"They contemn one another, and yet they seek to please one another: and whilest they seek to surpass one another in worldly pomp and greatness, they most debase and prostitute themselves in their better part one to another." -Marcus Aurelius 
"If it doesn't harm your character, how can it harm your life?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Not to be offended with other men's liberty of speech, and to apply myself unto philosophy. Him" -Marcus Aurelius 
"But by all means bear this in mind, that within a very short time both thou and he will be dead; and soon not even your names will be left behind." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Nowhere can man find a quieter or more untroubled retreat than in his own soul" -Marcus Aurelius 
"I am happy, though this has happened to me, because I continue free from pain, neither crushed by the present nor fearing the future" -Marcus Aurelius 
"A human being has close kinship with the whole human race -- not a bond of blood or seed, but a community of mind. And you have forgotten this too, that every man's mind is a god and has flowed from that source; that nothing is our own property, but even our child, our body, our very soul have come from that source; that all is as thinking makes it so; that each of us lives only the present moment, and the present moment is all we lose." -Marcus Aurelius 
"thereby gain much leisure, and save much trouble, and therefore at every action a man must privately by way of admonition suggest unto himself, What? may not this that now I go about," -Marcus Aurelius 
"For indeed whatsoever proceeds from the gods, deserves respect for their worth and excellency; and whatsoever proceeds from men, as they are our kinsmen, should by us be entertained, with love, always; sometimes, as proceeding from their ignorance, of that which is truly good and bad, (a blindness no less, than that by which we are not able to discern between white and black:) with a kind of pity and compassion also." -Marcus Aurelius 
"A man must not only consider how daily his life wasteth and decreaseth, but this also, that if he live long, he cannot be certain, whether his understanding shall continue so able and sufficient, for either discreet consideration, in matter of businesses; or for contemplation: it being the thing, whereon true knowledge of things both divine and human, doth depend." -Marcus Aurelius 
"That it’s not what they do that bothers us: that’s a problem for their minds, not ours. It’s our own misperceptions. Discard them. Be willing to give up thinking of this as a catastrophe . . . and your anger is gone. How do you do that? By recognizing that you’ve suffered no disgrace. Unless disgrace is the only thing that can hurt you, you’re doomed to commit innumerable offenses—to become a thief, or heaven only knows what else." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Men seek retreats for themselves, houses in the country, seashores, and mountains; and thou too art wont to desire such things very much. But this is altogether a mark of the most common sort of men, for it is in thy power whenever thou shalt choose to retire into thyself. For nowhere, either with more quiet or more freedom from trouble, does a man retire than into his own soul, particularly when he has within him such thoughts that by looking into them he is immediately in perfect tranquillity; and I affirm that tranquillity is nothing else than the good ordering of the mind." -Marcus Aurelius 
"But he that honours a reasonable soul in general, as it is reasonable and naturally sociable, doth little regard anything else: and above all things is careful to preserve his own, in the continual habit and exercise both of reason and sociableness: and thereby doth co-operate with him, of whose nature he doth also participate; God." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Nothing happens to any man that he is not formed by nature to bear." -Marcus Aurelius 
"with how little he was satisfied, such as lodging, bed, dress, food, servants;" -Marcus Aurelius 
"to be grave without affectation: to observe carefully the several dispositions of my friends, not to be offended with idiots, nor unseasonably to set upon those that are carried with the vulgar opinions, with the theorems, and tenets of philosophers: his conversation being an example how a man might accommodate himself to all men and companies; so that though his company were sweeter and more pleasing than any flatterer's cogging and fawning; yet was it at the same time most respected and reverenced:" -Marcus Aurelius 
"If therefore it be a thing external that causes thy grief, know, that it is not that properly that doth cause it, but thine own conceit and opinion concerning the thing: which thou mayest rid thyself of, when thou wilt." -Marcus Aurelius 
"You have embarked, made the voyage, and come to shore; get out. If indeed to another life, there is no want of gods, not even there. But if to a state without sensation, you will cease to be held by pains and pleasures, and to be a slave to the vessel, which is as much inferior as that which serves it is superior: for the one is intelligence and deity; the other is earth and corruption." -Marcus Aurelius 
"A man when he has done a good act, does not call out for others to come and see, but he goes on to another act, as a vine goes on to produce again the grapes in season." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Thus thou must use to keep thyself to the first motions and apprehensions of things, as they present themselves outwardly; and add not unto them from within thyself through mere conceit and opinion." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Forget everything else. Keep hold of this alone and remember it: Each of us lives only now, this brief instant. The rest has been lived already, or is impossible to see. The span we live is small—small as the corner of the earth in which we live it. Small as even the greatest renown, passed from mouth to mouth by short-lived stick figures, ignorant alike of themselves and those long dead." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Everything you’re trying to reach—by taking the long way round—you could have right now, this moment. If you’d only stop thwarting your own attempts. If you’d only let go of the past, entrust the future to Providence, and guide the present toward reverence and justice. Reverence: so you’ll accept what you’re allotted. Nature intended it for you, and you for it. Justice: so that you’ll speak the truth, frankly and without evasions, and act as you should—and as other people deserve." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Thou must hasten therefore; not only because thou art every day nearer unto death than other, but also because that intellective faculty in thee, whereby thou art enabled to know the true nature of things, and to order all thy actions by that knowledge, doth daily waste and decay: or, may fail thee before thou die." -Marcus Aurelius 
"And consider this which is near to thee, this boundless abyss of the past and of the future in which all things disappear. How then is he not a fool who is puffed up with such things or plagued about them and makes himself miserable? for they vex him only for a time, and a short time. Think" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Were you to live three thousand years, or even thirty thousand, remember that the sole life which a man can lose is that which he is living at the moment; and furthermore, that he can have no other life except the one he loses." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Nothing that goes on in anyone else’s mind can harm you. Nor can the shifts and changes in the world around you. —Then where is harm to be found? In your capacity to see it. Stop doing that and everything will be fine. Let the part of you that makes that judgment keep quiet even if the body it’s attached to is stabbed or burnt, or stinking with pus, or consumed by cancer. Or to put it another way: It needs to realize that what happens to everyone—bad and good alike—is neither good nor bad. That what happens in every life—lived naturally or not—is neither natural nor unnatural." -Marcus Aurelius 
"At what time soever thou wilt, it is in thy power to retire into thyself, and to be at rest, and free from all businesses." -Marcus Aurelius 
"It never ceases to amaze me: we all love ourselves more than other people, but care more about their opinion than our own. If a god appeared to us—or a wise human being, even—and prohibited us from concealing our thoughts or imagining anything without immediately shouting it out, we wouldn’t make it through a single day. That’s how much we value other people’s opinions—instead of our own." -Marcus Aurelius 
"To read with diligence; not to rest satisfied with a light and superficial knowledge, nor quickly to assent to things commonly spoken of: whom" -Marcus Aurelius 
"The student as boxer, not fencer. The fencer’s weapon is picked up and put down again. The boxer’s is part of him. All he has to do is clench his fist." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Not to be slack and negligent; or loose, and wanton in thy actions; nor contentious, and troublesome in thy conversation; nor to rove and wander in thy fancies and imaginations. Not basely to contract thy soul; nor boisterously to sally out with it, or furiously to launch out as it were, nor ever to want employment." -Marcus Aurelius 
"We should remember that even Nature's inadvertence has its own charm, its own attractiveness. The way loaves of bread split open on top in the oven; the ridges are just by-products of the baking, and yet pleasing, somehow: they rouse our appetite without our knowing why.Or how ripe figs begin to burst.And olives on the point of falling: the shadow of decay gives them a peculiar beauty.Stalks of wheat bending under their own weight. The furrowed brow of the lion. Flecks of foam on the boar's mouth.And other things. If you look at them in isolation there's nothing beautiful about them, and yet by supplementing nature they enrich it and draw us in. And anyone with a feeling for nature—a deeper sensitivity—will find it all gives pleasure. Even what seems inadvertent. He'll find the jaws of live animals as beautiful as painted ones or sculptures. He'll look calmly at the distinct beauty of old age in men, women, and at the loveliness of children. And other things like that will call out to him constantly—things unnoticed by others. Things seen only by those at home with Nature and its works." -Marcus Aurelius 
"When someone seems to have injured you: But how can I be sure? And in any case, keep in mind: • that he’s already been tried and convicted—by himself. (Like scratching your own eyes out.) • that to expect a bad person not to harm others is like expecting fig trees not to secrete juice, babies not to cry, horses not to neigh—the inevitable not to happen. What else could they do—with that sort of character? If you’re still angry, then get to work on that." -Marcus Aurelius 
"that there is but a certain limit of time appointed unto thee, which if thou shalt not make use of to calm and allay the many distempers of thy soul, it will pass away and thou with it, and never after return. II." -Marcus Aurelius 
"To be angry at something means you’ve forgotten: That everything that happens is natural. That the responsibility is theirs, not yours. And further . . . That whatever happens has always happened, and always will, and is happening at this very moment, everywhere. Just like this. What links one human being to all humans: not blood, or birth, but mind. And . . . That an individual’s mind is God and of God. That nothing belongs to anyone. Children, body, life itself—all of them come from that same source. That it’s all how you choose to see things. That the present is all we have to live in. Or to lose." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Our life is a warfare, and a mere pilgrimage." -Marcus Aurelius 
"The logos gave you the means to see it—that a given person would act a given way—but you paid no attention. And now you’re astonished that he’s gone and done it. So when you call someone "untrustworthy” or "ungrateful,” turn the reproach on yourself. It was you who did wrong." -Marcus Aurelius 
"People ask, "Have you ever seen the gods you worship? How can you be sure they exist?” Answers: i. Just look around you. ii. I’ve never seen my soul either. And yet I revere it. That’s how I know the gods exist and why I revere them—from having felt their power, over and over." -Marcus Aurelius 
"To recover your life is within your power; simply view things again as once you viewed them, for your revival rests in that." -Marcus Aurelius 
"In order to live in accord with nature, it is necessary to know what nature is; and to this end a threefold division of philosophy is made—into Physics, dealing with the universe and its laws, the problems of divine government and teleology; Logic, which trains the mind to discern true from false; and Ethics, which applies the knowledge thus gained and tested to practical life." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Thus the Stoics arrive at their main thesis. Virtue alone is admirable, virtue is absolutely self-sufficient; the good man needs no help from circumstances, neither sickness nor adversity can harm him; he is a king, a god among men." -Marcus Aurelius 
"If you work at that which is before you, following right reason seriously, vigorously, calmly, without allowing anything else to distract you, but keeping your divine part pure, as if you should be bound to give it back immediately; if you hold to this, expecting nothing, fearing nothing, but satisfied with your present activity according to nature, and with heroic truth in every word and sound which you speak, you will live happy. And there is no man who is able to prevent this." -Marcus Aurelius 
"For nowhere either with more quiet or more freedom from trouble does a man retire than into his own soul, particularly when he has within him such thoughts that by looking into them he is immediately in perfect tranquility; and I affirm that tranquility is nothing else than the good ordering of the mind. Constantly then give to thyself this retreat, and renew thyself; and let thy principles be brief and fundamental, which, as soon as thou shalt recur to them, will be sufficient to cleanse the soul completely, and to send thee back free from all discontent with the things to which thou returnest." -Marcus Aurelius 
"What’s there to complain about? People’s misbehavior? But take into consideration: that rational beings exist for one another; that doing what’s right sometimes requires patience; that no one does the wrong thing deliberately; and the number of people who have feuded and envied and hated and fought and died and been buried.  … and keep your mouth shut." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Suppose that a god announced that you were going to die tomorrow "or the day after.” Unless you were a complete coward you wouldn’t kick up a fuss about which day it was—what difference could it make? Now recognize that the difference between years from now and tomorrow is just as small." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Don’t imagine that something is good for you if, in pursuing it, you must break a promise, harm anyone else, lose self-respect, act hypocritically, or hide in shame." -Marcus Aurelius 
"No honres nunca como tu conveniencia lo que te fuerce en alguna ocasión a infringir la confianza de la que gozas, a dejar a un lado la vergüenza, odiar a alguien, sospechar, maldecir, aparentar, anhelar algo que precisa de muros y cortinajes[217]. Quien escoge su propia inteligencia, el espíritu divino y los ritos propios de su virtud no hace una elección trágica, no se lamenta, no precisará ni de soledad ni de muchedumbre. Y lo más importante, vivirá sin perseguir ni huir. Si hace uso de su alma, encerrada en su cuerpo, durante mayor o menor intervalo de tiempo no le importa nada en absoluto. Porque aunque tenga ya que separarse se alejará tan liberado como si ejecutara alguna otra de las acciones que pueden ejecutarse con decencia y orden, con esta única preocupación durante toda su vida, que su reflexión se ocupe en algo impropio de un animal inteligente y social." -Marcus Aurelius 
"12. If you do the job in a principled way, with diligence, energy and patience, if you keep yourself free of distractions, and keep the spirit inside you undamaged, as if you might have to give it back at any moment— If you can embrace this without fear or expectation—can find fulfillment in what you’re doing now, as Nature intended, and in superhuman truthfulness (every word, every utterance)—then your life will be happy. No one can prevent that. 13. Doctors keep their scalpels and other instruments handy, for emergencies. Keep your philosophy ready too—ready to understand heaven and earth. In everything you do, even the smallest thing, remember the chain that links them. Nothing earthly succeeds by ignoring heaven, nothing heavenly by ignoring the earth. 14. Stop drifting. You’re not going to re-read your Brief Comments, your Deeds of the Ancient Greeks and Romans, the commonplace books you saved for your old age. Sprint for the finish. Write off your hopes, and if your well-being matters to you, be your own savior while you can." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Begin the morning by saying to yourself, I shall meet with the busybody, the ungrateful, arrogant, deceitful, envious, unsocial. All these things happen to them by reason of their ignorance of what is good and evil. But I, who have seen the nature of the good that it is beautiful, and of the bad that it is ugly, and the nature of him who does wrong, that it is akin to me, not only of the same blood or seed, but that it participates in the same intelligence and the same portion of the divinity, I can neither be injured by any of them, for no one can fix on me what is ugly, nor can I be angry with my kinsman, nor hate him. For we are made for cooperation, like feet, like hands, like eyelids, like the rows of the upper and lower teeth. To act against one another then is contrary to nature; and it is acting against one another to be vexed and to turn away." -Marcus Aurelius 
"If you apply yourself to the task before you, following right reason seriously, vigorously, calmly, without allowing anything else to distract you, but keeping your divine part pure, as if you might be bound to give it back immediately; if you hold to this, expecting nothing, fearing nothing, but satisfied with your present activities according to nature, and with heroic truth in every word and sound which you utter, you will live happily. And there is no man who is able to prevent this." -Marcus Aurelius 
"In the mind that is once truly disciplined and purged, thou canst not find anything, either foul or impure, or as it were festered: nothing that is either servile, or affected: no partial tie; no malicious averseness; nothing obnoxious; nothing concealed." -Marcus Aurelius 
"See how soon everything is forgotten, and look at the chaos of infinite time on each side of [the present], and the emptiness of applause, and the changeableness and want of judgment in those who pretend to give praise, and the narrowness of the space within which it is circumscribed [and be quiet at last]. For the whole earth is a point, and how small" -Marcus Aurelius 
"What is this, fundamentally? What is its nature and substance, its reason for being? What is it doing in the world? How long is it here for?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"And as upon thy face and looks, thy mind hath easily power over them to keep them to that which is grave and decent; so let it challenge the same power over the whole body also." -Marcus Aurelius 
"To suffer change can be no hurt; as no benefit it is, by change to attain to being. The age and time of the world is as it were a flood and swift current, consisting of the things that are brought to pass in the world. For as soon as anything hath appeared, and is passed away, another succeeds, and that also will presently out of sight." -Marcus Aurelius 
"And so he will see even the real gaping jaws of wild beasts with no less pleasure than those which painters and sculptors show by imitation; and in an old woman and an old man he will be able to see a certain maturity and comeliness; and the attractive loveliness of young persons he will be able to look on with chaste eyes; and many such things will present themselves, not pleasing to every man, but to him only who has become truly familiar with nature and her works." -Marcus Aurelius 
"This then remains: Remember to retire into this little territory of thy own, and, above all, do not distract or strain thyself, but be free, at look and things as a man, as a human being, as a citizen, as a mortal." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Nothing is more pathetic than people who run around in circles, "delving into the things that lie beneath” and conducting investigations into the souls of the people around them, never realizing that all you have to do is to be attentive to the power inside you and worship it sincerely. To worship it is to keep it from being muddied with turmoil and becoming aimless and dissatisfied with nature—divine and human. What is divine deserves our respect because it is good; what is human deserves our affection because it is like us. And our pity too, sometimes, for its inability to tell good from bad—as terrible a blindness as the kind that can’t tell white from black." -Marcus Aurelius 
"this is not a misfortune but that to bear it like a brave man is good fortune" -Marcus Aurelius 
"For all things fade and turn to fable, and quickly too, utter oblivion covers them like sand." -Marcus Aurelius 
"XXVIII. And these your professed politicians, the only true practical philosophers of the world, (as they think of themselves) so full of affected gravity, or such professed lovers of virtue and honesty, what wretches be they in very deed; how vile and contemptible in themselves? O man! what ado doest thou keep?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Men exist for the sake of one another. Teach them then or bear with them." -Marcus Aurelius 
"No difference between here and there: the city that you live in is the world." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Wretched am I, says one, that this has befallen me. Nay, say you, happy I, who, tho’ this has befallen me, can still remain without sorrow, neither broken by the present, nor dreading the future. The like might have befallen any one; but every one could not have remained thus undejected. Why should the event be called a misfortune, rather than this strength of mind a felicity? But, can you call that a misfortune, to a man, which does not frustrate the intention of his nature? Can that frustrate the intention of it, or hinder it to attain its end, which is not contrary to the will or purpose of his nature; What is this will or purpose? Sure you have learned it. Doth this event hinder you to be just, magnanimous, temperate, prudent, cautious of rash assent, free from error, possessed of a sense of honour and modesty, and of true liberty; or from meriting those other characters, which whoever enjoys, hath all his nature requires, as its proper perfection? And then, upon every occasion of sorrow, remember the maxim, that this event is not a misfortune, but the bearing it courageously is a great felicity." -Marcus Aurelius 
"How do we know that Telauges wasn’t a better man than Socrates? It’s not enough to ask whether Socrates’ death was nobler, whether he debated with the sophists more adeptly, whether he showed greater endurance by spending the night out in the cold, and when he was ordered to arrest the man from Salamis decided it was preferable to refuse, and "swaggered about the streets” (which one could reasonably doubt). What matters is what kind of soul he had. Whether he was satisfied to treat men with justice and the gods with reverence and didn’t lose his temper unpredictably at evil done by others, didn’t make himself the slave of other people’s ignorance, didn’t treat anything that nature did as abnormal, or put up with it as an unbearable imposition, didn’t put his mind in his body’s keeping." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Is my understanding sufficient for this or not? If it is sufficient, I use it for the work as an instrument given by the universal nature. But if it is not sufficient, then either I retire from the work and give way to him who is able to do it better," -Marcus Aurelius 
"If you suffer distress because of some external cause, it is not the thing itself that troubles you but your judgement about it, and it is within your power to cancel that judgement at any moment." -Marcus Aurelius 
"A very ridiculous thing it is, that any man should dispense with vice and wickedness in himself, which is in his power to restrain; and should go about to suppress it in others, which is altogether impossible." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Think continually how many physicians have died, after often knitting their foreheads over their patients; how many astrologers after prophesying other men's deaths, as though to die were a great matter; how many philosophers after endless debate on death or survival after death; how many paladins after slaying their thousands; how many tyrants after using their power over men's lives with monstrous arrogance, as if themselves immortal; how many entire cities have, if I may use the term, died, Helice, Pompeii, Herculaneum, and others innumerable. Run over, too, the many also you know of, one after another. One followed this man's funeral and then was himself laid on the bier; another followed him, and all in a little while. This is the whole matter: see always how ephemeral and cheap are the things of man- yesterday, a spot of albumen, tomorrow, ashes or a mummy. Therefore make your passage through this span of time in obedience to Nature and gladly lay down your life, as an olive, when ripe, might fall, blessing her who bare it and grateful to thee which gave it life." -Marcus Aurelius 
"And to have learned how to accept favors from friends without losing your self-respect or appearing ungrateful." -Marcus Aurelius 
"A key point to bear in mind: The value of attentiveness varies in proportion to its object. You’re better off not giving the small things more time than they deserve." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Is any man afraid of change? Why what can take place without change? What then is more pleasing or more suitable to the universal nature? And canst thou take a bath unless the wood undergoes a change? And canst thou be nourished, unless the food undergoes a change? And can anything else that is useful be accomplished without change? Dost thou not see then that for thyself also to change is just the same, and equally necessary for the universal nature? Through" -Marcus Aurelius 
"How strangely men act. They will not praise those who are living at the same time and living with themselves; but to be themselves praised by posterity, by those whom they have never seen or ever will see, this they set much value on. But this is very much the same as if you should be grieved because those who have lived before you did not praise you." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Things of themselves cannot touch the soul at all. They have no entry to the soul, and cannot turn or move it. The soul alone turns and moves itself, making all externals presented to it cohere with the judgements it thinks worthy of itself." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Thou art a little soul bearing about a corpse, as Epictetus used to say (I. C. 19). 42. It is no evil for things to undergo change, and no good for things to subsist in consequence of change. 43. Time is like a river made up of the events which happen, and a violent stream; for as soon as a thing has been seen, it is carried away, and another comes in its place, and this will be carried away too." -Marcus Aurelius 
"And thou wilt give thyself relief if thou doest every act of thy life as if it were the last, laying aside all carelessness and passionate aversion from the commands of reason, and all hypocrisy, and self-love, and discontent with the portion which has been given to thee." -Marcus Aurelius 
"To conclude, always observe how ephemeral and worthless human things are, and what was yesterday a little mucus tomorrow will be a mummy or ashes." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Casting therefore all other things aside,keep thyself to these few, and remember withal that no man properly can be said tolive more than that which is now present, which is but a moment of time. Whatsoeveris besides either is already past, or uncertain." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Consider yourself to be dead, and to have completed your life up to the present time; and now live according to nature the remainder which is allowed you." -Marcus Aurelius 
"X. It is the part of a man endowed with a good understanding faculty, to consider what they themselves are in very deed, from whose bare conceits and voices, honour and credit do proceed: as also what it is to die, and how if a man shall consider this by itself alone, to die, and separate from it in his mind all those things which with it usually represent themselves unto us, he can conceive of it no otherwise, than as of a work of nature, and he that fears any work of nature, is a very child. Now death, it is not only a work of nature, but also conducing to nature." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Keep thyself therefore, truly simple, good, sincere, grave, free from all ostentation, a lover of that which is just, religious, kind, tender-hearted, strong and vigorous to undergo anything that becomes thee." -Marcus Aurelius 
"If thou findest in human life anything better than justice, truth, temperance, fortitude, and, in a word, anything better than thy own mind's self-satisfaction in the things which it enables thee to do according to right reason, and in the condition that is assigned to thee without thy own choice; if, I say, thou seest anything better than this, turn to it with all thy soul, and enjoy that which thou hast found to be the best. But if nothing appears to be better than the deity which is planted in thee, which has subjected to itself all thy appetites, and carefully examines all the impressions, and, as Socrates said, has detached itself from the persuasions of sense, and has submitted itself to the gods, and cares for mankind; if thou findest everything else smaller and of less value than this, give place to nothing else, for if thou dost once diverge and incline to it, thou wilt no longer without distraction be able to give the preference to that good thing which is thy proper possession and thy own; for it is not right that anything of any other kind, such as praise from the many, or power, or enjoyment of pleasure, should come into competition with that which is rationally and politically or practically good. All these things, even though they may seem to adapt themselves to the better things in a small degree, obtain the superiority all at once, and carry us away. But do thou, I say, simply and freely choose the better, and hold to it.- But that which is useful is the better.- Well then, if it is useful to thee as a rational being, keep to it; but if it is only useful to thee as an animal, say so, and maintain thy judgement without arrogance: only take care that thou makest the inquiry by a sure method." -Marcus Aurelius 
"They despise one another, yet they flatter one another;they sant to get above another and get they bow down to one another." -Marcus Aurelius 
"It is crazy to want what is impossible. And impossible for the wicked not to do so." -Marcus Aurelius 
"The substance of the universe is obedient and compliant; and the reason that governs it has in itself no cause for doing evil, for it has no malice, nor does it do evil to anything, nor is anything harmed by it. But all things are made and perfected according to this reason." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Thou hast also forgotten that every man's mind partakes of the Deity, and issueth from thence; and that no man can properly call anything his own, no not his son, nor his body, nor his life; for that they all proceed from that One who is the giver of all things:" -Marcus Aurelius 
"He who has seen the present has seen everything, that which happened in the most distant past and that which will happen in the future." -Marcus Aurelius 
"When your spirits need a lift, think of the virtues and talents of those around you - one's energy, another's modesty, the generosity of a third, something else in a fourth. Nothing is so inspiring or uplifting as the sight of these splendid qualities in our friends. Keep them always in mind." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Either pain affects the body (which is the body’s problem) or it affects the soul. But the soul can choose not to be affected, preserving its own serenity, its own tranquillity. All our decisions, urges, desires, aversions lie within. No evil can touch them." -Marcus Aurelius 
"It was my tutor who dissuaded me from patronizing Green or Blue at the races, or Light or Heavy in the ring;" -Marcus Aurelius 
"To the gods I am indebted for having good grandfathers, good parents, a good sister, good teachers, good associates, good kinsmen and friends, nearly everything good. Further, I owe it to the gods that I was not hurried into any offence against any of them, though I had a disposition which, if opportunity had offered, might have led me to do something of this kind; but, through their favour, there never was such a concurrence of circumstances as put me to the trial." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Observe constantly that all things take place by change, and accustom thyself to consider that the nature of the Universe loves nothing so much as to change the things which are and to make new things like them. For everything that exists is in a manner the seed of that which will be. But thou art thinking only of seeds which are cast into the earth or into a womb: but this is a very vulgar notion." -Marcus Aurelius 
"You can live here as you expect to live there." -Marcus Aurelius 
"It is, in other words, not objects and events but the interpretations we place on them that are the problem. Our duty is therefore to exercise stringent control over the faculty of perception, with the aim of protecting our mind from error." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Secondly, neither have I ever seen mine own soul, and yet I respect and honour it. So then for the Gods, by the daily experience that I have of their power and providence towards myself and others, I know certainly that they are, and therefore worship them." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Don't live as though you were going to live a myriad years. Fate is hanging over your head; while you have life, while you may, become good." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Remember, nothing belongs to you but your flesh and blood—and nothing else is under your control." -Marcus Aurelius 
"If our intellectual part is common, the reason also, in respect of which we are rational beings, is common: if this is so, common also is the reason which commands us what to do, and what not to do;" -Marcus Aurelius 
"We were made, Marcus tells us over and over, not for ourselves but for others, and our nature is fundamentally unselfish. In our relationships with others we must work for their collective good, while treating them justly and fairly as individuals." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Either a universe with order and purpose or a medley thrown together by chance, but that too has order. Or can there be order of a kind in your inner world, but no order in the Whole, especially as all things are distinguished from one another, yet intermingle, and respond to each other?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"No one can keep you from living as your nature requires. Nothing can happen to you that is not required by Nature." -Marcus Aurelius 
"From Sextus, a benevolent disposition, and the example of a family governed in a fatherly manner, and the idea of living conformably to nature; and gravity without affectation, and to look carefully after the interests of friends, and to tolerate ignorant persons, and those who form opinions without consideration:" -Marcus Aurelius 
"When it allows its action and impulse to be without a purpose, to be random and disconnected: even the smallest things ought to be directed toward a goal." -Marcus Aurelius 
"There is but one light of the sun, though it be intercepted by walls and mountains, and other thousand objects. There is but one common substance of the whole world, though it be concluded and restrained into several different bodies, in number infinite. There is but one common soul, though divided into innumerable particular essences and natures. So is there but one common intellectual soul, though it seem to be divided." -Marcus Aurelius 
"At dawn, when you have trouble getting out of bed, tell yourself: "I have to go to work — as a human being. What do I have to complain of, if I’m going to do what I was born for — the things I was brought into the world to do? Or is this what I was created for? To huddle under the blankets and stay warm?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Waste no more time arguing that a good man should be. Be one." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Set aside a certain number of days, during which you shall be content with the scantiest and cheapest fare, with coarse and rough dress, saying to yourself the while: Is this the condition that I feared?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"The value of attentiveness varies in proportion to its object. You’re better off not giving the small things more time than they deserve." -Marcus Aurelius 
"One is a careful distinction between things which are in our power and things which are not. Desire and dislike, opinion and affection, are within the power of the will; whereas health, wealth, honour, and other such are generally not so. The Stoic was called upon to control his desires and affections, and to guide his opinion; to bring his whole being under the sway of the will or leading principle, just as the universe is guided and governed by divine Providence." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Remember what Marcus Aurelius said:Accept the things to which life binds you, and love the people with whom life brings you together, but do so with all your heart." -Marcus Aurelius 
"If you are pained by any external thing, it is not this thing that disturbs you, but your own judgment about it. And it is in your power to wipe out this judgment now. But if anything in your own disposition gives you pain, who hinders you from correcting your opinion? And even if you are pained because you are not doing some particular thing that seems to you to be right, why do you not rather act than complain? "But some insuperable obstacle is in the way.” Do not be grieved then, for the cause of its not being done depends not on you. "But it is not worthwhile to live if this cannot be done.” Take your departure then from life contentedly, just as he dies who is in full activity, and well pleased, too, with the things that are obstacles." -Marcus Aurelius 
"From my governor, to be neither of the green nor of the blue party at the games in the Circus, nor a partisan either of the Parmularius or the Scutarius at the gladiators' fights; from him too I learned endurance of labour, and to want little, and to work with my own hands, and not to meddle with other people's affairs, and not to be ready to listen to slander. From" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Make for thyself a definition or description of the thing which is presented to thee, so as to see distinctly what kind of a thing it is in its substance, in its nudity, in its complete entirety, and tell thyself its proper name, and the names of the things of which it has been compounded, and into which it will be resolved." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Concentrate every minute like a Roman—like a man—on doing what’s in front of you with precise and genuine seriousness, tenderly, willingly, with justice. And on freeing yourself from all other distractions. Yes, you can—if you do everything as if it were the last thing you were doing in your life, and stop being aimless, stop letting your emotions override what your mind tells you, stop being hypocritical, self-centered, irritable. You" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Human society is a single organism, like an individual human body or a tree. But" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Consider the whole universe whereof thou art but a very little part, and the whole age of the world together, whereof but a short and very momentary portion is allotted unto thee, and all the fates and destinies together, of which how much is it that comes to thy part and share." -Marcus Aurelius 
"God sees the minds (ruling principles) of all men bared of the material vesture and rind and impurities. For with his intellectual part alone he touches the intelligence only which has flowed and been derived from himself into these bodies. And if thou also usest thyself to do this, thou wilt rid thyself of thy much trouble." -Marcus Aurelius 
"You should always be ready to apply these two rules of action, the first, to do nothing other than what the kingly and law-making art ordains for the benefits of humankind, and, the second, to be prepared to change your mind if someone is at hand to put you right and guide you away from some groundless opinion." -Marcus Aurelius 
"The despicable phoniness of people who say, "Listen, I’m going to level with you here.” What does that mean? It shouldn’t even need to be said. It should be obvious—written in block letters on your forehead. It should be audible in your voice, visible in your eyes, like a lover who looks into your face and takes in the whole story at a glance. A straightforward, honest person should be like someone who stinks: when you’re in the same room with him, you know it. But false straightforwardness is like a knife in the back." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Either the gods have power or they don’t. If they don’t,why pray? If they do, then why not pray for something elseinstead of for things to happen or not to happen? Pray not tofeel fear. Or desire, or grief. If the gods can do anything, theycan surely do that for us.—But those are things the gods left up to me.Then isn’t it better to do what’s up to you—like a free man—than to be passively controlled by what isn’t, like a slaveor beggar? And what makes you think the gods don’t careabout what’s up to us?Start praying like this and you’ll see.Not "some way to sleep with her”—but a way to stopwanting to.Not "some way to get rid of him”—but a way to stoptrying.Not "some way to save my child”—but a way to lose yourfear.Redirect your prayers like that, and watch what happens." -Marcus Aurelius 
"The body and its parts are a river, the soul a dream and mist, life is warfare and a journey far from home, lasting reputation is oblivion." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Objective judgment … Unselfish action … Willing acceptance … of all external events." -Marcus Aurelius 
"And that might be applied to him which is recorded of Socrates, that he was able both to abstain from, and to enjoy, those things which many are too weak to abstain from, and cannot enjoy without excess." -Marcus Aurelius 
"a society of equal laws, governed by equality of status and of speech, and of rulers who respect the liberty of their subjects above all else." -Marcus Aurelius 
"The earth, saith the poet, doth often long after the rain. So is the glorious sky often as desirous to fall upon the earth, which argues a mutual kind of love between them." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Another does wrong. What is that to me? Let him look to it; he has his own disposition, his own activity. I have now what Universal Nature wills me to have, and I do what my own nature wills me to do." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Desnudas de su corteza contempla las causas: los significados de las acciones, qué es el sufrimiento, qué es el placer, qué es la muerte, qué es la fama, quién es el culpable de tu propia falta de tiempo, cómo nadie es impedido por otro, que todo es suposición[482]." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Anticipate your final hours." -Marcus Aurelius 
"14. You have functioned as a part of something; you will vanish into what produced you. Or be restored, rather. To the logos from which all things spring. By being changed." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Nothing happens to any man which he is not formed by nature to bear." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Remember how long you have been putting off these things, and how often you have received an opportunity from the gods, and yet do not use it. You must now at last perceive of what universe you are a part, and from what administrator of the universe your existence flows, and that a limit of time is fixed for you, which if you do not use for clearing away the clouds from your mind, it will go and you will go, and it will never return." -Marcus Aurelius 
"No hay que censurar a los dioses porque no yerran en nada, ni contra su voluntad ni a propósito. Tampoco a los hombres, porque en nada yerran si no es contra su voluntad. En conclusión no hay que censurar a nadie." -Marcus Aurelius 
"You can discard most of the junk that clutters your mind—things that exist only there—and clear out space for yourself:  … by comprehending the scale of the world  … by contemplating infinite time  … by thinking of the speed with which things change—each part of every thing; the narrow space between our birth and death; the infinite time before; the equally unbounded time that follows." -Marcus Aurelius 
"What then is that which is able to conduct a man? One thing and only one, philosophy. But this consists in keeping the daemon within a man free from violence and unharmed, superior to pains and pleasures, doing nothing without purpose, nor yet falsely and with hypocrisy, not feeling the need of another man’s doing or not doing anything; and besides, accepting all that happens, and all that is allotted, as coming from thence, wherever it is, from whence he himself came; and, finally, waiting for death with a cheerful mind, as being nothing else than a dissolution of the elements of which every living being is compounded." -Marcus Aurelius 
"If thou art pained by any external thing, it is not this thing that disturbs thee, but thy own judgement about it. And it is in thy power to wipe out this judgement now. But if anything in thy own disposition gives thee pain, who hinders thee from correcting thy opinion? And even if thou art pained because thou art not doing some particular thing which seems to thee to be right, why dost thou not rather act than complain?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"general, and a scarcity of individual healers. It was the doctrine of Marcus Aurelius that most of the ills of life come to us from our own imagination, that it was not in the power of others seriously to interfere with the calm, temperate life of an individual, and that when a fellow being did anything to us that seemed unjust he was acting in ignorance, and that instead of stirring up anger within us it should stir our pity for him. Oftentimes by careful self-examination we should find that the fault was more our own than that of our fellow, and our sufferings were rather from our own opinions than from anything" -Marcus Aurelius 
"For what is just and good is on my side." -Marcus Aurelius 
"To the world: Your harmony is mine. Whatever time you choose is the right time. Not late, not early." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Do external things distract you? Then make time for yourself to learn something worthwhile; stop letting yourself be pulled in all directions." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Is it not possible that a real man should forget about living a certain number of years, and should not cling to life, but leave it up to the gods, accepting, as women say, that ‘no one can escape his fate,’ and turn his attention to how he can best live the life before him?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Learn to ask of all actions, "Why are they doing that?” Starting with your own." -Marcus Aurelius 
"For the entire earth is but a point, and the place of your own habitation but a minute corner in it. (...) Remember then to withdraw into the little field of self. Above all, never struggle or strain; but be master of yourself." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Whatever happens, happens rightly. Watch closely, and you will find this true. In the succession of events there is not mere sequence alone, but an order that is just right, as from the hand of one who dispense to their due." -Marcus Aurelius 
"If you were asked to spell the name Antoninus, would you rap out each letter at the top of voice, and then, if your hearers grew angry, grow angry yourself in turn? Rather, would you not proceed to enumerate the several letters quietly one by one? Well then; remember that here in life every piece of duty is likewise made up of its separate items. Pay careful attention to each of these, without fuss and without returning temper for temper, and so ensure the methodical completion of your task." -Marcus Aurelius 
"How free from all vanity he carried himself in matter of honour and dignity, (as they are esteemed:) his laboriousness and assiduity, his readiness to hear any man, that had aught to say tending to any common good:" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Do not despise death, but be well content with it, since this, too, is one of those things that nature wills. For such as it is to be young and to grow old, and to increase and to reach maturity, and to have teeth and beard and grey hairs, and to beget, and to be pregnant and to bring forth, and all the other natural operations that the seasons of your life bring, such also is dissolution. This, then, is consistent with the character of a reflecting man, to be neither careless nor impatient nor contemptuous with respect to death, but to wait for it as one of the operations of nature. As you now wait for the time when the child shall come out of your wife’s womb, so be ready for the time when your soul shall fall out of this envelope." -Marcus Aurelius 
"How free from all vanity he carried himself in matter of honour and dignity, (as they are esteemed:) his laboriousness and assiduity, his readiness to hear any man, that had aught to say tending to any common good: how generally and impartially he would give every man his due; his skill and knowledge," -Marcus Aurelius 
"For times when you feel pain: See that it doesn’t disgrace you, or degrade your intelligence—doesn’t keep it from acting rationally or unselfishly. And in most cases what Epicurus said should help: that pain is neither unbearable nor unending, as long as you keep in mind its limits and don’t magnify them in your imagination." -Marcus Aurelius 
"If you seek tranquillity, do less.” Or (more accurately) do what’s essential—what" -Marcus Aurelius 
"The whole Universe is change, and life itself is but what you deem it." -Marcus Aurelius 
"What is not good for the hive is no good for the bee" -Marcus Aurelius 
"It is ridiculous not to escape from one’s own vices, which is possible, while trying to escape the vices of others, which is impossible." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Reverence the sovereign power over things in the Universe; this is what uses all and marshals all. In like manner, too, reverence the sovereign power in yourself; and this is of one kind with that. For in you also this is what uses the rest, and your manner of living is governed by this." -Marcus Aurelius 
"He who dreads death, dreads either an extinction of all sense, or dreads a different sort of sensation. If all sense is extinguished, there can be no sense of evil. If a different sort of sense is acquired, you become another sort of living creature; and don’t cease to live." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Remember how long thou hast been putting off these things, and how often thou hast received an opportunity from the gods, and yet thou dost not use it. Thou must now at last perceive of what universe thou art a part, and of what administrator of the universe thy existence is an efflux, and that a limit of time is fixed for thee, which if thou dost not use for clearing away the clouds from thy mind, it will go and thou wilt go, and it will never return." -Marcus Aurelius 
"(...) you have grown beyond supposing such actions to be either good or bad, and therefore it will be so much the easier to be tolerant of another's blindness." -Marcus Aurelius 
"You have no assurance that they are doing wrong at all, for the motives of man's actions are not always what they seem. There is generally much to learn before any judgement can be pronounced with certainty on another's doings." -Marcus Aurelius 
"4. I have often wondered how it is that every man loves himself more than all the rest of men, but yet sets less value on his own opinion of himself than on the opinion of others. If then a god or a wise teacher should present himself to a man and bid him to think of nothing and to design nothing that he would not express as soon as he conceived it, he could not endure it even for a single day. So it is clear that we accord much more respect to what our neighbors think of us than to what we think of ourselves." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Stir up thy mind, and recall thy wits again from thy natural dreams, and visions,and when thou art perfectly awoken, and canst perceive that they were butdreams that troubled thee, as one newly awakened out of another kind of sleep lookupon these worldly things with the same mind as thou didst upon those, that thousawest in thy sleep." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Is any man afraid of change? Why what can take place without change? What then is more pleasing or more suitable to the universal nature? And canst thou take a bath unless the wood undergoes a change? And canst thou be nourished, unless the food undergoes a change? And can anything else that is useful be accomplished without change? Dost thou not see then that for thyself also to change is just the same, and equally necessary for the universal nature?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"The universe is flux, life is opinion." -Marcus Aurelius 
"To undertake nothing: i. at random or without a purpose; ii. for any reason but the common good." -Marcus Aurelius 
"At best suffer patiently, if thou canst not suffer joyously." -Marcus Aurelius 
"People who love what they do wear themselves down doing it, they even forget to wash or eat." -Marcus Aurelius 
"How ridiculous and what a stranger he is who is surprised at anything that happens in life." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Te embarcaste, hiciste el viaje, llegaste al puerto: ¡desembarca!" -Marcus Aurelius 
"One man after burying another has been laid out dead, and another buries him; and all this in a short time. To conclude, always observe how ephemeral and worthless human things are, and what was yesterday a little mucus, to-morrow will be a mummy or ashes. Pass then through this little space of time conformably to nature, and end thy journey in content, just as an olive falls off when it is ripe, blessing nature who produced it, and thanking the tree on which it grew." -Marcus Aurelius 
"No pointless actions." -Marcus Aurelius 
"If you find something very difficult to achieve yourself, don’t imagine it impossible—for anything possible and proper for another person can be achieved as easily by you." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Soon earth will cover us all. Then in time earth, too, will change; later, what issues from this change will itself in turn incessantly change, and so again will all that then takes its place, even unto the world's end. to let the mind dwell on these swiftly rolling billows of change and transformation is to know a contempt for all things mortal." -Marcus Aurelius 
"And that might be applied to him which is recorded of Socrates, that he was able both to abstain from, and to enjoy, those things which many are too weak to abstain from, and cannot enjoy without excess. But to be strong enough both to bear the one and to be sober in the other is the mark of a man who has a perfect and invincible soul, such as he showed in the illness of Maximus." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Every man's happiness depends from himself, but behold thy life is almost at an end, whiles affording thyself no respect, thou dost make thy happiness to consist in the souls, and conceits of other men." -Marcus Aurelius 
"For we are made for co-operation, like feet, like hands, like eyelids, like the rows of the upper and lower teeth. To act against one another then is contrary to nature; and it is acting against one another to be vexed and to turn away." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Do not act as if thou wert going to live ten thousand years. Death hangs over thee. While thou livest, while it is in thy power, be good." -Marcus Aurelius 
"لاتكن دمية تحركها خيوط الرغبة" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Pride is a master of deception: when you think you’re occupied in the weightiest business, that’s when he has you in his spell. (Compare Crates on Xenocrates.)" -Marcus Aurelius 
"..Is this what I was created for? To huddle under the blankets and stay warm?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Be content to seem what you really are." -Marcus Aurelius 
"So remember this principle when something threatens to cause you pain: the thing itself was no misfortune at all; to endure it and prevail is great good fortune." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Do not suppose you are hurt, and your complaint ceases; cease your complaint, and you are not hurt” (iv. 7)," -Marcus Aurelius 
"And I observed that he had overcome all passion for boys;" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Consider that everything is opinion, and opinion is in thy power. Take away then, when thou choosest, thy opinion, and like a mariner, who has doubled the promontory, thou wilt find calm, everything stable, and a waveless bay. Any" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Remember how long thou hast been putting off these things, and how often thou hast received an opportunity from the gods, and yet dost not use it. Thou must now at last perceive of what universe thou art a part, and of what administrator of the universe thy existence is an efflux, and that a limit of time is fixed for thee, which if thou dost not use for clearing away the clouds from thy mind, it will go and thou wilt go, and it will never return." -Marcus Aurelius 
"never ceases to amaze me: we all love ourselves more than other people, but care more about their opinion than our own." -Marcus Aurelius 
"External things are not the problem. It’s your assessment of them. Which you can erase right now. If the problem is something in your own character, who’s stopping you from setting your mind straight?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Why doth a little thing said or done against thee make thee sorry? It is no new thing; it is not the first, nor shall it be the last, if thou live long. At best suffer patiently, if thou canst not suffer joyously." -Marcus Aurelius 
"I am unhappy, because this has happened to me.” Not so: say, "I am happy, though this has happened to me, because I continue free from pain, neither crushed by the present nor fearing the future." -Marcus Aurelius 
"And not to think of philosophy as your instructor, but as the sponge and egg white that relieve ophthalmia—as a soothing ointment, a warm lotion. Not" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Should not thou rather blame thyself, who, when upon very good grounds of reason, thou mightst have thought it very probable, that such a thing would by such a one be committed, didst not only not foresee it, but moreover dost wonder at it, that such a thing should be." -Marcus Aurelius 
"(Is it a sign of self-respect to regret nearly everything you do?)" -Marcus Aurelius 
"When human nature rebels against Mother Nature, humanity becomes a cancer on the earth. The natures of all things are nested within nature as a whole. When you reject what life gives you, you place yourself in opposition to nature—including your own nature—and so harm yourself." -Marcus Aurelius 
"If there were anything harmful on the other side of death, they would have made sure that the ability to avoid it was within you." -Marcus Aurelius 
"There is a kind of river of things passing into being and Time is a violent torrent. For no sooner is each seen, than it has been carried away, and another is being carried by, and that, too, will be carried away." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Está cerca que tú te olvides de todo y también lo está que todos te olviden." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Neither must he use himself to cut off actions only, but thoughts and imaginations also, that are unnecessary for so will unnecessary consequent actions the better be prevented and cut off." -Marcus Aurelius 
"That which is not good for the bee-hive, cannot be good for the bee." -Marcus Aurelius 
"19. Everything is here for a purpose, from horses to vine shoots. What’s surprising about that? Even the sun will tell you, "I have a purpose,” and the other gods as well. And why were you born? For pleasure? See if that answer will stand up to questioning." -Marcus Aurelius 
"When it’s hard to get out of bed in the morning, remind yourself: I am rising to resume my life’s work. How can I be unhappy when I have another opportunity to do what I was born to do? But it’s so comfortable here. Were you born for this—lying in bed under a warm blanket? Life is meant for action and exertion. Consider the ants, bees, and birds, working to bring order to their corners of the universe. Are you unwilling to do the work of a human being? But I worked yesterday; today I need to rest. Rest is for recharging, not for indulgence. Take only what is sufficient for your health and vitality. Too much rest—like too much food or drink—defeats its purpose, weakening the body and dulling the spirit. But I should love and care for myself. If you truly love yourself, love your nature and your vocation. Those who love their work become so absorbed in it, they don’t even think of stopping. Do you love your work the way a dancer loves dancing and a painter loves painting? If not, why is your work less important to you than theirs is to them?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Not to be offended with other men's liberty of speech," -Marcus Aurelius 
"Thus there are two reasons why you must be content with what happens to you: first because it was for you it came to pass, for you it was ordered and to you it was related, a thread of destiny stretching back to the most ancient causes; secondly because that which has come to each individually is a cause of the welfare and the completion in very truth of the actual continuance of that which governs the Whole." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Death smiles at us all, all a man can do is smile back." -Marcus Aurelius 
"5. Concentrate every minute like a Roman—like a man—on doing what’s in front of you with precise and genuine seriousness, tenderly, willingly, with justice. And on freeing yourself from all other distractions. Yes, you can—if you do everything as if it were the last thing you were doing in your life, and stop being aimless, stop letting your emotions override what your mind tells you, stop being hypocritical, self-centered, irritable. You see how few things you have to do to live a satisfying and reverent life? If you can manage this, that’s all even the gods can ask of you." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Don’t look at things the way wrong-doers do. Don’t look at things as wrong-doers want you too, either. Instead, strive to see things in truth, as they really are." -Marcus Aurelius 
"My city and my country, as I am Antoninus, is Rome; as I am a man, it is the world." -Marcus Aurelius 
"the Stoics had always approved of participation in public life, and this stand struck a chord with the Roman aristocracy, whose code of values placed a premium on political and military activity." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Casting aside other things, hold to the precious few; and besides bear in mind that every man lives only the present, which is an indivisible point, and that all the rest of his life is either past or is uncertain." -Marcus Aurelius 
"You have seen those things, look now at these: do not trouble yourself, make yourself simple. Does a man do wrong? He does wrong to himself. Has some chance befallen you? It is well; from Universal Nature, from the beginning, all that befalls was determined for you and the thread was spun. The sum of the matter is this: life is short; the present must be turned to profit with reasonableness and right. Be sober without effort." -Marcus Aurelius 
"To the gods I am indebted for having good grandfathers, good parents, a good sister, good teachers, good associates, good kinsmen and friends, nearly everything good." -Marcus Aurelius 
"So must a good ear, and a good smell be ready for whatsoever is either to be heard, or smelt: and a good stomach as indifferent to all kinds of food, as a millstone is, to whatsoever she was made for to grind. As ready therefore must a sound understanding be for whatsoever shall happen. But he that saith, O that my children might live! and, O that all men might commend me for whatsoever I do! is an eye that seeks after green things; or as teeth, after that which is tender." -Marcus Aurelius 
"All human beings have a share of the logos, and all have roles to play in the vast design that is the world. But this is not to say that all humans are equal or that the roles they are assigned are interchangeable. Marcus, like most of his contemporaries, took it for granted that human society was hierarchical, and this is borne out by the images he uses to describe it. Human society is a single organism, like an individual human body or a tree. But the trunk of the tree is not to be confused with the leaves, or the hands and feet with the head. Our duty to act justly does not mean that we must treat others as our equals; it means that we must treat them as they deserve. And their deserts are determined in part by their position in the hierarchy." -Marcus Aurelius 
"For in those things that properly belongunto the mind, she cannot be hindered by any man" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Altogether the interval is small between birth and death; and consider with how much trouble, and in company with what sort of people and in what a feeble body this interval is laboriously passed. Do not then consider life a thing of any value. For look to the immensity of time behind thee, and to the time which is before thee, another boundless space. In this infinity then what is the difference between him who lives three days and him who lives three generations?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Indeed, the application of the adjective "stoic” to a person who shows strength and courage in misfortune probably owes more to the aristocratic Roman value system than it does to Greek philosophers. Stoicism" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Whatever this is that I am, it is flesh and a little spirit and an intelligence. Throw away your books; stop letting yourself be distracted. That is not allowed. Instead, as if you were dying right now, despise your flesh. A mess of blood, pieces of bone, a woven tangle of nerves, veins, arteries. Consider what the spirit is: air, and never the same air, but vomited out and gulped in again every instant. Finally, the intelligence.Think of it this way: You are an old man. Stop allowing your mind to be a slave, to be jerked about by selfish impulses, to kick against fate and the present, and to mistrust the future." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Use thyself; as often, as thou seest any man do anything, presently (if it be possible) to say unto thyself, What is this man's end in this his action? But begin this course with thyself first of all, and diligently examine thyself concerning whatsoever thou doest." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Anywhere you can lead your life, you can lead a good one." -Marcus Aurelius 
"to grumble at anything that happens is a rebellion against Nature, in some part of which are bound up the natures of all other things." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Either teach them better if it be in thy power; or if it be not, remember that forthis use, to bear with them patiently, was mildness and goodness granted unto thee." -Marcus Aurelius 
"where a man can live, there he can also live well. But he must live in a palace;- well then, he can also live well in a palace." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Thou must also take heed of another kind of wandering, for they are idle in their actions, who toil and labour in this life, and have no certain scope to which to direct all their motions, and desires." -Marcus Aurelius 
"The universe, then, is God, of whom the popular gods are manifestations; while legends and myths are allegorical. The soul of man is thus an emanation from the godhead, into whom it will eventually be re-absorbed. The divine ruling principle makes all things work together for good, but for the good of the whole. The highest good of man is consciously to work with God for the common good, and this is the sense in which the Stoic tried to live in accord with nature. In the individual it is virtue alone which enables him to do this; as Providence rules the universe, so virtue in the soul must rule man." -Marcus Aurelius 
"If you are pained by any external thing, it is not this thing that disturbs you, but your own judgement about it. And it is in your power to wipe out this judgement now. But if anything in your own disposition gives you pain, who hinders you from correcting your opinion? And even if you are pained because you are not doing some particular thing that seems to you to be right, why do you not rather act than complain?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Were you to live three thousand years, or even thirty thousand, remember that the sole life which a man can lose is that which he is living at the moment; and furthermore, that he can have no other life except the one he loses. This means that the longest life and the shortest amount to the same thing. For the passing minute is every man’s equal possession, but what has once gone by is not ours." -Marcus Aurelius 
"A man should always have these two rules in readiness; the one, to do only whatever the reason of the ruling and legislating faculty may suggest for the use of men; the other, to change thy opinion, if there is any one at hand who sets thee right and moves thee from any opinion. But this change of opinion must proceed only from a certain persuasion, as of what is just or of common advantage, and the like, not because it appears pleasant or brings reputation. Hast" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Of the life of man the duration is but a point, its substance streaming away, its perception dim, the fabric of the entire body prone to decay, and the soul a vortex, and fortune incalculable, and fame uncertain. In a word all the things of the body are as a river, and the things of the soul as a dream and a vapour; and life is a warfare and a pilgrim’s sojourn, and fame after death is only forgetfulness." -Marcus Aurelius 
"If it is not right, do not do it: if it is not true, do not say it." -Marcus Aurelius 
"IV. He that sinneth, sinneth unto himself. He that is unjust, hurts himself, in that he makes himself worse than he was before. Not he only that committeth, but he also that omitteth something, is oftentimes unjust." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Another useful point to bear in mind: What qualities has nature given us to counter that defect? As an antidote to unkindness it gave us kindness. And other qualities to balance other flaws." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Hark ye, friend; you have been a burgher of this great city. What matter whether you have lived in it but five years or three? If you have observed the laws of the corporation, the length or shortness of the time makes no difference. Where is the hardship, then, if Nature, that planted you here, orders your removal? You cannot say you are sent off by a tyrant or an unjust judge. No; you quit the stage as fairly as a player does that has his discharge from the master of the revels. But I have only gone through three acts, and not held out till the end of the fifth, you say. Well, but in life three acts make the play entire. He that ordered the first scene now gives the sign for shutting up the last. You are neither accountable for one nor the other." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Death is such as generation is, a mystery of nature; a composition out of the same elements, and a decomposition into the same; and altogether not a thing of which any man should be ashamed," -Marcus Aurelius 
"Sexual ecstasy is like death. It is one of the secrets of nature’s wisdom." -Marcus Aurelius 
"One is a careful distinction between things which are in our power and things which are not. Desire and dislike, opinion and affection, are within the power of the will; whereas health, wealth, honour, and other such are generally not so. The Stoic was called upon to control his desires and affections, and to guide his opinion;" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Every soul, the philosopher says, is involuntarily deprived of truth; consequently in the same way it is deprived of justice and temperance and benevolence and everything of the kind. It is most necessary to bear this constantly in mind, for thus thou wilt be more gentle towards all." -Marcus Aurelius 
"That which does not make a man worse than he was, also does not make his life worse, nor does it harm him either from without or from within." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Wherein Antoninus recordeth, What and of whom, whether Parents, Friends, or Masters; by their good examples, or good advice and counsel, he had learned:" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Lucilla saw Verus die, and then Lucilla died. Secunda saw Maximus die, and then Secunda died. Epitynchanus saw Diotimus die, and Epitynchanus died. Antoninus saw Faustina die, and then Antoninus died. Such is everything. Celer saw Hadrian die, and then Celer died. And those sharp-witted men, either seers or men inflated with pride, where are they? For instance the sharp-witted men, Charax and Demetrius the Platonist and Eudaemon, and any one else like them. All ephemeral, dead long ago. Some indeed have not been remembered even for a short time, and others have become the heroes of fables, and again others have disappeared even from fables. Remember this then, that this little compound, thyself, must either be dissolved, or thy poor breath must be extinguished, or be removed and placed elsewhere." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Take away thy opinion, and then there is taken away the complaint, "I have been harmed.” Take away the complaint, "I have been harmed,” and the harm is taken away." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Consider that everything which happens, happens justly, and if thou observest carefully, thou wilt find it to be so. I do not say only with respect to the continuity of the series of things, but with respect to what is just, and as if it were done by one who assigns to each thing its value. Observe then as thou hast begun; and whatever thou doest, do it in conjunction with this, the being good, and in the sense in which a man is properly understood to be good. Keep to this in every action." -Marcus Aurelius 
"25. Try how the life of the good man suits thee, the life of him who is satisfied with his portion out of the whole, and satisfied with his own just acts and benevolent disposition." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Nothing is as encouraging as when virtues are visibly embodied in the people around us, when we’re practically showered with them." -Marcus Aurelius 
"he may not be profound, he is always sincere." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Practice even what seems impossible." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Man, what are you talking about? Me in chains? You may fetter my leg but my will, not even Zeus himself can overpower." -Marcus Aurelius 
"And thou wilt give thyself relief, if thou doest every act of thy life as if it were the last, laying aside all carelessness and passionate aversion from the commands of reason, and all hypocrisy, and self-love, and discontent with the portion which has been given to thee." -Marcus Aurelius 
"It should be a man's task, says the Imitation, 'to overcome himself, and every day to be stronger than himself." -Marcus Aurelius 
"External things are not the problem. It's your assessment of them. Which you can erase right now." -Marcus Aurelius 
"And thou wilt give thyself relief, if thou doest every act of thy life as if it were the last," -Marcus Aurelius 
"Choose not to be harmed—and you won’t feel harmed." -Marcus Aurelius 
"What is evil to thee does not subsist in the ruling principle of another; nor yet in any turning and mutation of thy corporeal covering. Where is it then? It is in that part of thee in which subsists the power of forming opinions about evils. Let this power then not form such opinions, and all is well. And if that which is nearest to it, the poor body, is burnt, filled with matter and rottenness, nevertheless let the part which forms opinions about these things be quiet, that is, let it judge that nothing is either bad or good which can happen equally to the bad man and the good. For that which happens equally to him who lives contrary to nature and to him who lives according to nature, is neither according to nature nor contrary to nature." -Marcus Aurelius 
"in an old woman and an old man he will be able to see a certain maturity and comeliness; and the attractive loveliness of young persons he will be able to look on with chaste eyes; and many such things will present themselves, not pleasing to every man, but to him only who has become truly familiar with nature and her works." -Marcus Aurelius 
"It is royal to do good and to be abused." -Marcus Aurelius 
"vex not thy spirit at the course of things,they not heed thy vexations." -Marcus Aurelius 
"A prudent governor will not roughly oppose even the superstitions of his people; and though he may wish that they were wiser, he will know that he cannot make them so by offending their prejudices." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Let the god that is within you be the champion of the being you are." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Even chance is not divorced from nature, from the inweaving and and enfolding of things governed by Providence." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Then consider the Middle (and later the New) Comedy and what it aimed at—gradually degenerating into mere realism and empty technique." -Marcus Aurelius 
"This thou must always bear in mind, what is the nature of the whole, and what is my nature, and how this is related to that, and what kind of a part it is of what kind of a whole; and that there is no one who hinders thee from always doing and saying the things which are according to the nature of which thou art a part." -Marcus Aurelius 
"That I was not long brought up by the concubine of my father; that I preserved the flower of my youth. That I took not upon me to be a man before my time, but rather put it off longer than I needed. That I lived under the government of my lord and father, who would take away from me all pride and vainglory, and reduce me to that conceit and opinion that it was not impossible for a prince to live in the court without a troop of guards and followers, extraordinary apparel, such and such torches and statues, and other like particulars of state and magnificence; but that a man may reduce and contract himself almost to the state of a private man, and yet for all that not to become the more base and remiss in those public matters and affairs, wherein power and authority is requisite." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Do, soul, do; abuse and contemn thyself; yet a while and the time for thee to respect thyself, will be at an end. Every man's happiness depends from himself, but behold thy life is almost at an end, whiles affording thyself no respect, thou dost make thy happiness to consist in the souls, and conceits of other men." -Marcus Aurelius 
"For nowhere, either with more quiet or more freedom from trouble, does a man retire than into his own soul, particularly when he has within him such thoughts that by looking into them he is immediately in perfect tranquillity; and I affirm that tranquillity is nothing else than the good ordering of the mind." -Marcus Aurelius 
"You should take no action unwillingly, selfishly, uncritically, or with conflicting motives. Do not dress up your thoughts in smart finery: do not be a gabbler or a meddler. Further, let the god that is within you be the champion of the being you are a male, mature in years, a statesman, a Roman, a ruler: one who has taken his post like a soldier waiting for the Retreat from life to sound, and ready to depart, past the need for any loyal oath or human witness. And see that you keep a cheerful demeanour, and retain your independence of outside help and the peace which others can give. Your duty is to stand straight - not held straight." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Do you have reason? I have. Why then do you not use it? For if reason does its own work, what else could you wish for?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"all things soon pass away and become a mere tale, and complete oblivion soon buries them. And I say this of those who have shone in a wondrous way." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Is an emerald suddenly flawed if no one admires it?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Virtue alone is happiness, and vice is unhappiness." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Take pleasure in one thing and rest in it, in passing from one social act to another social act, thinking of God." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Never esteem aught of advantage which will oblige you to break your faith, or to desert your honour; to hate, to suspect, or to execrate any man; to play a part; or to set your mind on anything that needs to be hidden by wall or curtain. He who to all things prefers the soul, the divinity within him, and the sacred cult of its virtues, makes no tragic groan or gesture. He needs neither solitude nor a crowd of spectators; and, best of all, he will live neither seeking nor shunning death. Whether the soul shall use its surrounding body for a longer or shorter space is to him indifferent. Were he to depart this moment he would go as readily as he would do any other seemly and proper action, holding one thing only in life-long avoidance—to find his soul in any case unbefitting an intelligent social being." -Marcus Aurelius 
"every man lives the present time only, and loses only this." -Marcus Aurelius 
"But fortunate means that a man has assigned to himself a good fortune: and a good fortune is good disposition of the soul, good emotions, good actions." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Begin the morning by saying to thyself, I shall meet with the busy-body, the ungrateful, arrogant, deceitful, envious, unsocial. All these things happen to them by reason of their ignorance of what is good and evil." -Marcus Aurelius 
"•Whatever anyone does or says, I must be good; just as if the emerald were always saying this: Whatever anyone does or says, I must still be emerald, and keep my color." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Think of thy last hour. Let the wrong which is done by a man stay there where the wrong was done." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Keep reminding yourself of the way things are connected, of their relatedness. All things are implicated in one another and in sympathy with each other. This event is the consequence of some other one. Things push and pull on each other, and breathe together, and are one." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Inlatura parerea: este inlaturat „am fost vatamat”; inlatura „am fost vatamat” este inlaturat si prejudiciul." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Whom a man might compare to one of those half-eaten wretches, matched in the amphitheatre with wild beasts; who as full as they are all the body over with wounds and blood, desire for a great favour, that they may be reserved till the next day," -Marcus Aurelius 
"Similarly, man is born for deeds of kindness; and when he has done a kindly action, or otherwise served the common welfare, he has done what he was made for, and has received his quittance." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Si te afliges por alguna causa externa, no es ella lo que te importuna, sino el juicio que tú haces de ella. Y borrar ese juicio, de ti depende. Pero si te aflige algo que radica en tu disposición, ¿Quién te impide rectificar tu criterio?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Think thyself fit and worthy to speak, or to do anything that is according to nature, and let not the reproach, or report of some that may ensue upon it, ever deter thee. If it be right and honest to be spoken or done, undervalue not thyself so much, as to be discouraged from it. As for them, they have their own rational over-ruling part, and their own proper inclination: which thou must not stand and look about to take notice of, but go on straight, whither both thine own particular, and the common nature do lead thee; and the way of both these, is but one." -Marcus Aurelius 
"One is a careful distinction between things which are in our power and things which are not. Desire and dislike, opinion and affection, are within the power of the will; whereas health, wealth, honour, and other such are generally not so." -Marcus Aurelius 
"When thou art offended with any man's transgression, presently reflect upon thyself; and consider what thou thyself art guilty of in the same kind. As that thou also perchance dost think it a happiness either to be rich, or to live in pleasure, or to be praised and commended, and so of the rest in particular. For this if thou shalt call to mind, thou shalt soon forget thine anger; especially when at the same time this also shall concur in thy thoughts, that he was constrained by his error and ignorance so to do: for how can he choose as long as he is of that opinion? Do thou therefore if thou canst, take away that from him, that forceth him to do as he doth." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Let there be freedom from perturbations with respect to the things which come from the external cause; and let there be justice in the things done by virtue of the internal cause, that is, let there be movement and action terminating in this, in social acts, for this is according to thy nature. Thou" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Entonces, ¿qué es lo que puede escoltamos? Sólo una cosa, la filosofía. Esto es vigilar que el espíritu divino interior esté sin vejación, sin daño, más fuerte que los placeres y los sufrimientos, que no haga nada al azar ni con mentira o fingimiento, que no tenga necesidad de que otro haga o deje de hacer algo. Y además que acepte lo que ocurre y lo que se le ha asignado como algo que viene de allí de donde él vino. Por encima de todo, aguardar la muerte con el pensamiento favorable de que no es otra cosa sino disgregación de los elementos de los que está compuesto cada ser vivo. Si precisamente para los elementos en sí no hay nada terrible en que cada uno se transforme sin interrupción en otro, ¿por qué uno ve con malos ojos la transformación y disgregación de todos? En efecto, se produce según la naturaleza y nada es malo si es según la naturaleza." -Marcus Aurelius 
"The Stoics aspired to the repression of all emotion, and the Epicureans to freedom from all disturbance; yet in the upshot the one has become a synonym of stubborn endurance, the other for unbridled licence." -Marcus Aurelius 
"That power which rules us from inside, when it is in its natural state, stands in such a way in relation to whatever may happen that it easily adapts itself at all times both to its own capabilities and what it has been given by fate. For it is not attracted toward one kind of material thing or event but adapts itself to all internal and external limitations, whether those limitations are due to ability or fate. Nevertheless, it converts into usable fuel anything that opposes it, just as fire does when it consumes what is thrown upon it, by which a small fire would have been extinguished. But a blazing fire quickly assimilates to itself whatever is cast upon it, engulfing it as fuel and rising even higher because of it." -Marcus Aurelius 
"The goal that you hope you will one day arrive at after a long and roundabout journey you are able to possess right now, if only you do not deny it to yourself. That is, if you can let go of the past, entrust the future to Providence and redirect the present according to justice and the sacred. To the sacred, so that you welcome what has been given to you, for Nature has brought this to you, and you to it; and to justice, in order that you may speak the truth freely and without distortion, and that you may act in accordance with what is lawful and right. Do not allow yourself to be hindered by the harmful actions, judgments, or the words of another, or by the sensations of the flesh which has formed itself around you. Let the body take care of those. But if, when you have come to the end, having let go of all other things, you honor only your guiding part and the divinity that is within you, and you do not fear ceasing to live so much as you fear never having begun to live in accordance with Nature--then you will be a man who is worth of the Cosmos that created you; and you will cease to live like a stranger in your own land, that is, surprised at unexpected everyday occurrences and wholly distracted by this and that." -Marcus Aurelius 
"If this is neither my own badness, nor an effect of my own badness, and the common weal is not injured, why am I troubled about it? And what is the harm to the common weal?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"And so shalt thou confess, if thou dost observe it. For sooner mayst thou find a thing earthly, where no earthly thing is, than find a man that naturally can live by himself alone." -Marcus Aurelius 
"If it be not fitting, do it not. If it be not true, speak it not. Ever maintain thine own purpose and resolution free from all compulsion and necessity" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Ninguém vale mais que as suas ambições" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Whatever happens to every man, this is for the interest of the universal:" -Marcus Aurelius 
"You could be good today. But instead, you choose tomorrow." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Never esteem of anything as profitable, which shall ever constrain thee either to break thy faith, or to lose thy modesty; to hate any man, to suspect, to curse, to dissemble, to lust after anything, that requireth the secret of walls or veils." -Marcus Aurelius 
"It is instructive to compare the Meditations with another famous book, the Imitation of Christ. There is the same ideal of self-control in both. It should be a man's task, says the Imitation, 'to overcome himself, and every day to be stronger than himself." -Marcus Aurelius 
"From Claudius Maximus, in all things to endeavour to have power of myself, and in nothing to be carried about; to be cheerful and courageous in all sudden chances and accidents, as in sicknesses: to love mildness, and moderation, and gravity: and to do my business, whatsoever it be, thoroughly, and without querulousness. Whatsoever he said, all men believed him that as he spake, so he thought, and whatsoever he did, that he did it with a good intent. His manner was, never to wonder at anything; never to be in haste, and yet never slow: nor to be perplexed, or dejected, or at any time unseemly, or excessively to laugh: nor to be angry, or suspicious, but ever ready to do good, and to forgive, and to speak truth; and all this, as one that seemed rather of himself to have been straight and right, than ever to have been rectified or redressed; neither was there any man that ever thought himself undervalued by him, or that could find in his heart, to think himself a better man than he. He would also be very pleasant and gracious." -Marcus Aurelius 
"In the morning purpose, in the evening discuss the manner, what thou hast been this day, in word, work, and thought." -Marcus Aurelius 
"I don’t know whether the gods hear and answer our prayers, or not. Either way, why not pray for the strength to let go of your desires and fears? Wouldn’t it be better to be content with what you already have and to fear nothing? Try praying this way—for an inner change, rather than an outer one—and see what happens." -Marcus Aurelius 
"A person’s worth is measured by the worth of what he values" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Thou canst remove out of the way many useless things among those which disturb thee, for they lie entirely in thy opinion; and thou wilt then gain for thyself ample space by comprehending the whole universe in thy mind, and by contemplating the eternity of time, and observing the rapid change of every several thing, how short is the time from birth to dissolution, and the illimitable time before birth as well as the equally boundless time after dissolution. All" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Of Diognetus, not to busy myself about vain things, and not easily to believe those things, which are commonly spoken, by such as take upon them to work wonders, and by sorcerers, or prestidigitators, and impostors; concerning the power of charms, and their driving out of demons, or evil spirits; and the like." -Marcus Aurelius 
"43. Time is a river, a violent current of events, glimpsed once and already carried past us, and another follows and is gone." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Wie weit bist du in der Erkenntnis, daß keine andere Lebensweise zum Philosophieren so geeignet sei, als die, die du jetzt gerade führst?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"The universe is change; our life is what our thoughts make it" -Marcus Aurelius 
"It can ruin your life only if it ruins your character. Otherwise it cannot harm you - inside or out" -Marcus Aurelius 
"si te elevaran en el aire y miraras hacia abajo las cosas humanas y su versatilidad, piensa que las despreciarías al verlas todas al mismo tiempo que las que habitan por todo el aire y la atmósfera[489]. Y que cuantas veces seas elevado verás lo mismo, lo semejante, su brevedad. De eso depende el delirio de grandeza." -Marcus Aurelius 
"He who loves fame considers another man’s activity to be his own good; and he who loves pleasure, his own sensations; but he who has understanding, considers his own acts to be his own good. It" -Marcus Aurelius 
"If you remove your judgement of anything that seems painful, you yourself stand quite immune to pain. 'What self?' Reason. 'But I am not just reason.' Granted. So let reason cause itself no pain, and if some other part of you is in trouble, it can form its own judgement for itself." -Marcus Aurelius 
"We need to master the art of acquiescence. We need to pay attention to our impulses, making sure they don’t go unmoderated, that they benefit others, that they’re worthy of us." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Don’t ever forget these things: The nature of the world. My nature. How I relate to the world. What proportion of it I make up. That you are part of nature, and no one can prevent you from speaking and acting in harmony with it, always." -Marcus Aurelius 
"No desdeñes la muerte; antes bien, acógela gustosamente, en la convicción de que ésta también es una de las cosas que la naturaleza quiere. Porque cual es la juventud, la vejez, el crecimiento, la plenitud de la vida, el salir los dientes, la barba, las canas, la fecundación, la preñez, el alumbramiento y las demás actividades naturales que llevan las estaciones de la vida, tal es también tu propia disolución. Por consiguiente, es propio de un hombre dotado de razón comportarse ante la muerte no con hostilidad, ni con vehemencia, ni con orgullo, sino aguardarla como una más de las actividades naturales. Y, al igual que tú aguardas el momento en que salga del vientre de tu mujer el recién nacido, así también aguarda la hora en que tu alma se desprenderá de esa envoltura." -Marcus Aurelius 
"You need to avoid certain things in your train of thought: everything random, everything irrelevant. And certainly everything self-important or malicious. You need to get used to winnowing your thoughts, so that if someone says, "What are you thinking about?” you can respond at once (and truthfully) that you are thinking this or thinking that. And it would be obvious at once from your answer that your thoughts were straightforward and considerate ones—the thoughts of an unselfish person, one unconcerned with pleasure and with sensual indulgence generally, with squabbling, with slander and envy, or anything else you’d be ashamed to be caught thinking." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Men despise one another and flatter one another; and men wish to raise themselves above one another, and crouch before one another." -Marcus Aurelius 
"It never ceases to amaze me: we all love ourselves more than other people, but care more about their opinions than our own" -Marcus Aurelius 
"That which is not good for the beehive cannot be good for the bees." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Think thyself fit and worthy to speak, or to do anything that is according to nature, and let not the reproach, or report of some that may ensue upon it, ever deter thee. If it be right and honest to be spoken or done, undervalue not thyself so much, as to be discouraged from it." -Marcus Aurelius 
"That bees don’t behave like this—or any other animals with a sense of community. Don’t do it sardonically or meanly, but affectionately—with no hatred in your heart. And not ex cathedra or to impress third parties, but speaking directly. Even if there are other people around." -Marcus Aurelius 
"haber aprendido cómo hay que aceptar las finezas de los amigos, sin dejarse esclavizar por ellas y sin rechazarlas toscamente." -Marcus Aurelius 
"HE WHO acts unjustly acts impiously. For since the universal nature has made rational animals for the sake of one another to help one another according to their deserts, but in no way to injure one another, he who transgresses her will, is clearly guilty of impiety towards the highest divinity." -Marcus Aurelius 
"What then is that about which we ought to employ our serious pains? This one thing, thoughts just, and acts social, and words which never lie, and a disposition which gladly accepts all that happens, as necessary, as usual, as flowing from a principle and source of the same kind." -Marcus Aurelius 
"and to be easy and ready to be reconciled, and well pleased again with them that had offended me, as soon as any of them would be content to seek unto me again." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Reverence: so you’ll accept what you’re allotted. Nature intended it for you, and you for it." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Many lumps of incense on the same altar. One crumbles now, one later, but it makes no difference" -Marcus Aurelius 
"It’s courtesy and kindness that define a human being" -Marcus Aurelius 
"And whensoever thou findest thyself; that thou art in danger of a relapse, and that thou art not able to master and overcome those difficulties and temptations that present themselves in thy present station: get thee into any private corner, where thou mayst be better able. Or if that will not serve forsake even thy life rather. But so that it be not in passion but in a plain voluntary modest way: this being the only commendable action of thy whole life that thus thou art departed," -Marcus Aurelius 
"Since it is possible that thou mayest depart from life this very moment, regulate every act and thought accordingly" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Pondera sin cesar cuántos médicos murieron, después de haber tantas veces fruncido el ceño sobre sus enfermos; cuántos astrólogos que reputaban maravilla el predecir la muerte a otros; cuántos filósofos, después de miles de controversias sobre la muerte y la inmortalidad; cuántos príncipes, después de ocasionar la muerte a tantos hombres; cuántos tiranos que, a título de una pretendida inmortalidad, han abusado con pasmosa altivez de su poder sobre las vidas humanas. ¡Cuántas ciudades han muerto, por así decirlo, enteramente: Hélice, Pompeya, Herculano y otras sin número! Pasa revista, uno tras otro, a cuantos tú mismo has conocido. Éste, después de haber prestado sus postreros servicios a aquél, fue colocado él mismo en el lecho fúnebre por otro, y a éste tocó también su turno. ¡Y todo esto en cuán breve tiempo! En una palabra, considera siempre las cosas humanas como efímeras y ruines: lo que era ayer un poco de humor, será mañana momia o ceniza. Esta infinita brevedad del tiempo, vívela, pues, conformándote con la naturaleza y termina tu vida con agrado; al modo que la aceituna, llegada a sazón, cae bendiciendo a la tierra que la sostuvo y dando gracias al árbol que le dio savia." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Justice: so that you’ll speak the truth, frankly and without evasions, and act as you should—and as other people deserve." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Afánate fijamente, a cada hora, como romano y como varón, en hacer lo que tuvieres entre manos, con precisa y sincera gravedad, con amor, libertad y justicia, procurando desasirte de cualquier otra preocupación. Lo conseguirás si ejecutas cada acción de tu vida como si fuere la última, despojada de toda irreflexión y de toda apasionada repugnancia al señorío de la razón, sin falsedad, ni egoísmo, ni displicencia ante las disposiciones del destino. Ya ves cuán pocos son los principios que debes poseer para vivir una vida próspera y temerosa de los dioses. Que los dioses no exigirán otra cosa a quien observare estos preceptos." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Occupy yourself with few things, says the philosopher, if you would be tranquil. But consider if it would not be better to say, Do what is necessary, and whatever the reason of a social animal naturally requires, and as it requires. For this brings not only the tranquillity that comes from doing well, but also that which comes from doing few things. Since the greatest part of what we say and do is unnecessary, dispensing with such activities affords a man more leisure and less uneasiness. Accordingly on every occasion a man should ask himself, Is this one of the unnecessary things? Now a man should take away not only unnecessary acts, but also unnecessary thoughts so that superfluous acts will not follow after." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Someone despises me. That’s their problem. Mine: not to do or say anything despicable. Someone hates me. Their problem. Mine: to be patient and cheerful with everyone, including them. Ready to show them their mistake. Not spitefully, or to show off my own self-control, but in an honest, upright way. Like Phocion (if he wasn’t just pretending). That’s what we should be like inside, and never let the gods catch us feeling anger or resentment. As long as you do what’s proper to your nature, and accept what the world’s nature has in store—as long as you work for others’ good, by any and all means—what is there that can harm you?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"No te distraigan los incidentes exteriores. Desocúpate para aprender algo más de bueno, y cesa de andar girando como una devanadera. Conviene asimismo precaverte de otra clase de extravío. Que desvarían los que, a causa de tantos quehaceres, se hastían de la vida y no tienen blanco alguno al que dirijan todos sus esfuerzos y, en una palabra, sus ideas." -Marcus Aurelius 
"External things are not the problem. It’s your assessment of them. Which you can erase right now. If the problem is something in your own character, who’s stopping you from setting your mind straight? And if it’s that you’re not doing something you think you should be, why not just do it? —But there are insuperable obstacles. Then it’s not a problem. The cause of your inaction lies outside you." -Marcus Aurelius 
"7. Nunca juzgues útil para ti mismo lo que tal vez te obligue algún día a quebrantar la palabra dada, a renunciar al pudor, a odiar; recelar, imprecar, disimular, desear lo que sólo puede hacerse a puertas cerradas y tras las cortinas. El hombre que a todo antepusiere su inteligencia, su genio interior y los misterios del culto debido a la gloria de éste, ese hombre no representará una tragedia, no se entregará al llanto, prescindirá de la soledad como de la muchedumbre; y, lo que es más, vivirá sin aprestarse y sin huir de la muerte. No se inquietará por gozar, durante un intervalo más o menos largo de tiempo, de este soplo que rodea su cuerpo. Que, aunque conviniere desprenderse de él al mismo punto, marchará tan ágilmente como haría en cualquiera otra de las funciones de la vida, moderada y decorosamente. La sola cosa que procura durante toda su vida es preservar su inteligencia de una deformación contraria a la naturaleza de un ser inteligente y sociable." -Marcus Aurelius 
"...because most of what we say and do is not essential. If you can eliminate it, you'll have more time and more tranquillity. Ask yourself at every moment, is this necessary…" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Remember too on every occasion which leads thee to vexation to apply this principle: not that this is a misfortune, but that to bear it nobly is good fortune." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Of my grandfather Verus I have learned to be gentle and meek, and to refrain from all anger and passion." -Marcus Aurelius 
"The noblest kind retribution is to become not like your enemy," -Marcus Aurelius 
"he is poor, who has need of another, and has not from himself all things that are useful for life." -Marcus Aurelius 
"16. To live a good life: We have the potential for it. If we can learn to be indifferent to what makes no difference." -Marcus Aurelius 
"all these things, which thou seest, change immediately and will no longer be; and constantly bear in mind how many of these changes thou hast already witnessed. The" -Marcus Aurelius 
"always observe how ephemeral and worthless human things are, and what was yesterday a little mucus to-morrow will be a mummy or ashes. Pass then through this little space of time conformably to nature, and end thy journey in content, just as an olive falls off when it is ripe, blessing nature who produced it, and thanking the tree on which it grew." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Dost thou grieve that thou dost weigh but so many pounds, and not three hundred rather? Just as much reason hast thou to grieve that thou must live but so many years, and not longer. For as for bulk and substance thou dost content thyself with that proportion of it that is allotted unto thee, so shouldst thou for time." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Begin the morning by saying to thyself, I shall meet with the busy-body, the ungrateful, arrogant, deceitful, envious, unsocial. All these things happen to them by reason of their ignorance of what is good and" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Nada más infeliz que el hombre que lo inquiere todo girando de aquí para allá, que escruta, como dice el poeta, «las profundidades de la tierra», que indaga por conjeturas lo que acontece en el alma ajena, sin acabar de entender que le bastaría sólo aplicarse al dios que habita en su interior y venerarle como es debido. Este culto consiste en conservarse puro de pasiones; de temeridad y de disgusto por aquello que procede de los dioses y de los hombres. Porque lo que viene de los dioses es digno de respeto, por ser obra de sí virtuosa; y lo que viene de los hombres nos es caro a causa del parentesco, si bien a veces no deja de ser, en cierto sentido, objeto de compasión, por su ignorancia del bien y del mal, ceguera no menor que la que nos impide poder discernir lo blanco de lo negro." -Marcus Aurelius 
"People exist for one another. You can instruct or endure them." -Marcus Aurelius 
"How many of them who came into the world at the same time when I did, are already gone out of it?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"FROM MY GRANDFATHER VERUS I LEARNED GOOD MORALS AND THE government of my temper." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Whatsoever he said, all men believed him that as he spake, so he thought, and whatsoever he did, that he did it with a good intent." -Marcus Aurelius 
"And this I say of them, who once shined as the wonders of their ages, for as for the rest, no sooner are they expired, than with them all their fame and memory. And what is it then that shall always be remembered? all is vanity. What is it that we must bestow our care and diligence upon? even upon this only: that our minds and wills be just; that our actions be charitable; that our speech be never deceitful, or that our understanding be not subject to error; that our inclination be always set to embrace whatsoever shall happen unto us, as necessary, as usual, as ordinary, as flowing from such a beginning, and such a fountain, from which both thou thyself and all things are. Willingly therefore, and wholly surrender up thyself unto that fatal concatenation, yielding up thyself unto the fates, to be disposed of at their pleasure." -Marcus Aurelius 
"el no dejarme regir, ni aun en las cosas mínimas, por otros principios que por la razón;" -Marcus Aurelius 
"To conclude, always observe how ephemeral and worthless human things are, and what was yesterday a speck of semen tomorrow will be a mummy or ashes." -Marcus Aurelius 
"When someone wrongs you, ask yourself: What made him do it? Once you understand his concept of good and evil, you'll feel sorry for him and cease to either be amazed or angry. If his concept is similar to yours, then you will be bound to forgive him since you would have acted as he did in similar circumstances. But if you do not share his ideas of good and evil, then you should find it even easier to overlook the wrongs of someone who is confused and in a moral muddle." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Mihin tahansa kyllästyisinkin, niin aina pysyn onnellisena, sillä onnellinen on se, joka pystyy luomaan itselleen onnellisen kohtalon. Onnellinen kohtalo taas on hyvä mieliala, hyvät taipumukset, hyvät teot." -Marcus Aurelius 
"When you deal with irrational animals, with things and circumstances, be generous and straightforward. You are rational; they are not. When you deal with fellow human beings, behave as one. They share in the logos. And invoke the gods regardless. Don’t worry about how long you’ll go on doing this. A single afternoon would be enough. 24." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Love all people, including those who do wrong. They may be acting unintentionally, out of ignorance. Even if they are acting intentionally, they can’t harm you—that is, they can’t make you a worse person than before. Only you can harm yourself, by fanning the flames of hatred and resentment. When someone wrongs you, identify the mistaken ideas that motivated their behavior. Then, instead of being angry, you’ll pity them." -Marcus Aurelius 
"How would any of that stop you from keeping your mind calm—reliably sizing up what’s around you—and ready to make good use of whatever happens? So that Judgment can look the event in the eye and say, "This is what you really are, regardless of what you may look like.” While Adaptability adds, "You’re just what I was looking for.” Because to me the present is a chance for the exercise of rational virtue—civic virtue—in short, the art that men share with gods. Both treat whatever happens as wholly natural; not novel or hard to deal with, but familiar and easily handled." -Marcus Aurelius 
"To follow the logos in all things is to be relaxed and energetic, joyful and serious at once." -Marcus Aurelius 
"At dawn, when you have trouble getting out of bed, tell yourself: "I have to go to work—as a human being. What do I have to complain of, if I’m going to do what I was born for—the things I was brought into the world to do? Or is this what I was created for? To huddle under the blankets and stay warm?” —But it’s nicer here.… So you were born to feel "nice”? Instead of doing things and experiencing them? Don’t you see the plants, the birds, the ants and spiders and bees going about their individual tasks, putting the world in order, as best they can? And you’re not willing to do your job as a human being? Why aren’t you running to do what your nature demands? —But we have to sleep sometime.… Agreed. But nature set a limit on that—as it did on eating and drinking. And you’re over the limit. You’ve had more than enough of that. But not of working. There you’re still below your quota. You don’t love yourself enough. Or you’d love your nature too, and what it demands of you. People who love what they do wear themselves down doing it, they even forget to wash or eat. Do you have less respect for your own nature than the engraver does for engraving, the dancer for the dance, the miser for money or the social climber for status? When they’re really possessed by what they do, they’d rather stop eating and sleeping than give up practicing their arts. Is helping others less valuable to you? Not worth your effort?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Se deshonra el alma del hombre particularmente cuando, por lo que a sí toca, viene a hacerse como un divieso o una excrecencia en el cuerpo del mundo; porque irritarse con alguno de los acontecimientos que sobrevienen es como un absceso de la naturaleza universal, de la cual participan las naturalezas de todos los otros seres. El alma se deshonra asimismo cuando se muestra adversa a alguno de los otros hombres, o se comporta con él con intención de hacerle mal, como acontece con las almas poseídas de ira. Lo tercero, se deshonra cuando se da por vencida del dolor o el placer. Lo cuarto, cuando disimula, finge y altera la verdad por obra o de palabra. Lo quinto, cuando lanza su actividad o sus apetitos sin blanco fijo, y lo ejecuta todo al azar, y sin continuidad, siendo así que aun las más pequeñas acciones debieran tender a un fin propuesto: y el fin de los seres racionales es obedecer a la razón y a la ley de la naturaleza, la más augusta de las ciudades y gobiernos." -Marcus Aurelius 
"The highest good of man is consciously to work with God for the common good, and this is the sense in which the Stoic tried to live in accord with nature. In the individual it is virtue alone which enables him to do this; as Providence rules the universe, so virtue in the soul must rule man." -Marcus Aurelius 
"as the heaps of sand piled on one another hide the former sands, so in life the events which go before are soon covered by those which come after." -Marcus Aurelius 
"States will never be happy until rulers become philosophers or philosophers become rulers.—PLATO, The Republic" -Marcus Aurelius 
"At all times, look at the thing itself—the thing behind the appearance—and unpack it by analysis: cause substance purpose and the length of time it exists." -Marcus Aurelius 
"That whatever happens has always happened, and always will, and is happening at this very moment, everywhere. Just like this. What links one human being to all humans: not blood, or birth, but mind." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Im allgemeinen schadet das Böse der Welt nicht, und im einzelnen Falle schadet es nur dem, dem es vergönnt ist, sich frei davon zu machen, sobald er nur will." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Destrói a opinião, e destruído estará o pensamento "fui prejudicado”. Destrói a queixa "fui prejudicado”, e destruído estará o dano." -Marcus Aurelius 
"The others obey their own lead, follow their own impulses. Don't be distracted. Keep walking. Follow your own nature, and follow Nature - along the road they share." -Marcus Aurelius 
"En ningún lugar encuentra el hombre refugio más apacible, más tranquilo, que en su propia alma, sobre todo cuando atesora aquellos bienes que, con una sola ojeada, nos devuelven en seguida la libertad del espíritu: y lo que yo llamo libertad de espíritu no es otra cosa que el estado de un alma bien ordenada. Concédete, pues, constantemente, este descanso y rehazte con él. Tendrás para ello ciertas máximas breves y elementales que, prontamente reducidas a la memoria, te borrarán toda pesadumbre y te restituirán libre de enfado, a tus funciones habituales. Porque, ¿qué cosa no puedes soportar con paciencia? ¿La ruindad de los hombres? Recuerda a este respecto que los seres razonables nacieron el uno para el otro, que de justicia deben sufrirse mutuamente, que sus faltas son involuntarias; piensa en los que, heridos de muerte, dados a la enemistad, al odio, traspasados por la lanza, están tendidos en la tumba, reducidos a cenizas. ¡Cálmate, pues!" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Jos jokin tuntuu sinusta vaikealta, niin älä ajattele, että ihminen ei voi sitä kestää. Jos sen sijaan jokin on mahdollista ihmisen suorittaa, niin arvele voivasi itsekin siitä selviytyä." -Marcus Aurelius 
"It’s time you realized that you have something in you more powerful and miraculous than the things that affect you and make you dance like a puppet." -Marcus Aurelius 
"¿Qué hay, pues, que nos pueda llevar a salvamento? Una sola y única cosa: la filosofía. Y ésta consiste en conservar el dios interior sin ultraje ni daño, para que triunfe de placeres y dolores, para que no obre al acaso, y se mantenga lejos de toda falsedad y disimulo, al margen de que se haga o no se haga esto o aquello; además, para que acepte la parte que le tocare en los varios sucesos accidentales e integrantes de su parte, como procedentes de aquel origen de quien procede él mismo; y, en particular, para que aguarde la muerte en actitud plácida, no viendo en ella otra cosa más que la disolución de los elementos de que consta todo ser viviente. Si no hay nada temible para los mismos elementos en esta transformación incesante de uno en otro, ¿por qué temer la transformación y disolución de todas las otras cosas? Esto es conforme con la naturaleza: y nada es malo de cuanto a ella se acomoda." -Marcus Aurelius 
"If asked, he would no doubt have responded that "true” slavery is the self-enslavement of the mind to emotion and desire" -Marcus Aurelius 
"IN THE MORNING WHEN THOU RISEST UNWILLINGLY, LET THIS THOUGHT be present—I am rising to the work of a human being. Why then am I dissatisfied if I am going to do the things for which I exist and for which I was brought into the world? Or have I been made for this, to lie in the bedclothes and keep myself warm?—But this is more pleasant.—Dost thou exist then to take thy pleasure, and not at all for action or exertion? Dost thou not see the little plants, the little birds, the ants, the spiders, the bees working together to put in order their several parts of the universe? And art thou unwilling to do the work of a human being, and dost thou not make haste to do that which is according to thy nature?—But it is necessary to take rest also.—It is necessary: however nature has fixed bounds to this too: she has fixed bounds both to eating and drinking, and yet thou goest beyond these bounds, beyond what is sufficient; yet in thy acts it is not so, but thou stoppest short of what thou canst do. So thou lovest not thyself, for if thou didst, thou wouldst love thy nature and her will." -Marcus Aurelius 
"29. Stop whatever you’re doing for a moment and ask yourself: Am I afraid of death because I won’t be able to do this anymore?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"According to this theory, man is like a dog tied to a moving wagon. If the dog refuses to run along with the wagon he will be dragged by it, yet the choice remains his: to run or be dragged." -Marcus Aurelius 
"То, что было препоной для данного действия, становится средством для другого действия, а то, что стояло на пути, само указует путь" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Discard everything except these few truths: we can live only in the present moment, in this brief now; all the rest of our life is dead and buried or shrouded in uncertainty. Short is the life we lead, and small our patch of earth." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Если же ты не способен перенести это, то и тогда тебе нечего досадовать, ибо, уничтожив тебя, оно погибнет и само." -Marcus Aurelius 
"And these your professed politicians, the only true practical philosophers of the world, (as they think of themselves) so full of affected gravity, or such professed lovers of virtue and honesty, what wretches be they in very deed; how vile and contemptible in themselves?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"That kindness is invincible, provided it’s sincere—not ironic or an act. What can even the most vicious person do if you keep treating him with kindness and gently set him straight—if you get the chance—correcting him cheerfully at the exact moment that he’s trying to do you harm. "No, no, my friend. That isn’t what we’re here for. It isn’t me who’s harmed by that. It’s you.” And show him, gently and without pointing fingers, that it’s so. That bees don’t behave like this—or any other animals with a sense of community." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Thy present opinion founded on understanding, and thy present conduct directed to social good, and thy present disposition of contentment with everything which happens- that is enough. Wipe out imagination: check desire: extinguish appetite: keep the ruling faculty in its own power. Among" -Marcus Aurelius 
"From Plato: the man who has an elevated mind and takes a view of all time and of all substance, dost thou suppose it possible for him to think that human life is anything great? It is not possible, he said. Such a man then will think that death also is no evil." -Marcus Aurelius 
"The nearer a man comes to a calm mind, the closer he is to strength." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Always run to the short way; and the short way is the natural: accordingly say and do everything in conformity with the soundest reason. For such a purpose frees a man from trouble, and warfare, and all artifice and ostentatious display." -Marcus Aurelius 
"What need of prompt or hint when it is open to yourself to discern what needs to be done - and, if you can see your way, to follow it with kind but undeviating intent. If you cannot see the way, hold back and consult your best advisors. if some other factors obstruct this advice, proceed on your present resources, but with cautious deliberations, keeping always to what seems just. Justice is the best aim, as any failure is in fact a failure of justice.A man following reason in all things combines relaxation with initiative, spark with composure." -Marcus Aurelius 
"As they that long after figs in winter when they cannot be had; so are they that long after children, before they be granted them." -Marcus Aurelius 
"esta adversidad no es un infortunio, mas soportarlo noblemente es una suerte.                               50." -Marcus Aurelius 
"selfishness; both of them will do you harm. When you start to lose your temper, remember: There’s nothing manly about rage. It’s courtesy and kindness that define a human being—and a man. That’s who possesses strength and nerves and guts, not the angry whiners." -Marcus Aurelius 
"consider when thou art much vexed or grieved, that man’s life is only a moment, and after a short time we are all laid out dead." -Marcus Aurelius 
"And moreover, to fear pain is to fear something that’s bound to happen, the world being what it is—and that again is blasphemy." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Chief among these are inappropriate value judgments: the designation as "good” or "evil” of things that in fact are neither good nor evil." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Make for thyself a definition or description of the thing which is presented to thee, so as to see distinctly what kind of a thing it is in its substance, in its nudity, in its complete entirety, and tell thyself its proper name, and the names of the things of which it has been compounded, and into which it will be resolved. For nothing is so productive of elevation of mind as to be able to examine methodically and truly every object which is presented to thee in life, and always to look at things so as to see at the same time what kind of universe this is, and what kind of use everything performs in it, and what value everything has with reference to the whole, and what with reference to man, who is a citizen of the highest city, of which all other cities are like families; what each thing is, and of what it is composed, and how long it is the nature of this thing to endure which now makes an impression on me, and what virtue I have need of with respect to it, such as gentleness, manliness, truth, fidelity, simplicity, contentment, and the rest. Wherefore, on every occasion a man should say: this comes from God; and this is according to the apportionment and spinning of the thread of destiny, and such-like coincidence and chance; and this is from one of the same stock, and a kinsman and partner, one who knows not however what is according to his nature." -Marcus Aurelius 
"what stands in the way is the way" -Marcus Aurelius 
"offences which are committed through desire are more blameable than those which are committed through anger. For he who is excited by anger seems to turn away from reason with a certain pain and unconscious contraction; but he who offends through desire, being overpowered by pleasure, seems to be in a manner more intemperate and more womanish in his offences." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Whatever happens to every man, this is for the interest of the universal: this might be sufficient. But further thou wilt observe this also as a general truth, if thou dost observe, that whatever is profitable to any man is profitable also to other men. But let the word profitable be taken here in the common sense as said of things of the middle kind [neither good nor bad]." -Marcus Aurelius 
"The soul becomes dyed with the colours of its thoughts." -Marcus Aurelius 
"At every instant the objects and events in the world around us bombard us with impressions. As they do so they produce a phantasia, a mental impression. From this the mind generates a perception (hypolepsis), which might best be compared to a print made from a photographic negative. Ideally this print will be an accurate and faithful representation of the original. But it may not be. It may be blurred, or it may include shadow images that distort or obscure the original." -Marcus Aurelius 
"This day I shalt have to do with an idle curious man, with an unthankful man, a railer, a crafty, false, or an envious man; an unsociable uncharitable man. All these ill qualities have happened unto them, through ignorance of that which is truly good and truly bad." -Marcus Aurelius 
"No malogres la parte de vida que te queda en averiguar vidas ajenas, a no ser que te propongas algún fin útil a la comunidad. Te privas ciertamente de cumplir tu deber al revolver en tu imaginación lo que hace fulano y por qué lo hace, qué dice, qué piensa, qué trama, y otras ocupaciones de esta índole que te distraen de la consideración de tu facultad rectora. Conviene, pues, no ensartar en la cadena de nuestros pensamientos lo que es temerario y vano y, más especialmente, lo fútil y lo malvado. Hay que avezarse, además, a tener sólo ideas tales que si alguien de repente te preguntare, bruscamente: «¿En qué piensas ahora?», pudieras responder al instante, con toda franqueza: «en esto» o «en aquello». Se dejará ver entonces, pronto y evidentemente, que todo lo tuyo es simple, bondadoso, digno de un ser sociable e indiferente a los placeres y, en su conjunto, a las ideas de una vida voluptuosa; un ser que no abriga envidia, celos, desconfianza u otra pasión por la cual te fuera preciso avergonzarte al manifestar que la posee tu ánimo." -Marcus Aurelius 
"We are each of us stronger than we think." -Marcus Aurelius 
"It should be a man’s task, says the Imitation, ‘to overcome himself, and every day to be stronger than himself." -Marcus Aurelius 
"If you do the job in a principled way, with diligence, energy and patience, if you keep yourself free of distractions, and keep the spirit inside you undamaged, as if you might have to give it back at any moment–If you can embrace this without fear or expectation–can find fulfillment in what you’re doing now, as Nature intended, and in superhuman truthfulness (every word, every utterance)–then your life will be happy. No one can prevent that." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Some things hasten to be, and others to be no more. And even whatsoever now is, some part thereof hath already perished. Perpetual fluxes and alterations renew the world, as the perpetual course of time doth make the age of the world (of itself infinite) to appear always fresh and new. In such a flux and course of all things, what of these things that hasten so fast away should any man regard, since among all there is not any that a man may fasten and fix upon? as if a man would settle his affection upon some ordinary sparrow living by him, who is no sooner seen, than out of sight. For we must not think otherwise of our lives, than as a mere exhalation of blood, or of an ordinary respiration of air. For what in our common apprehension is, to breathe in the air and to breathe it out again, which we do daily: so much is it and no more, at once to breathe out all thy respirative faculty into that common air from whence but lately (as being but from yesterday, and to-day), thou didst first breathe it in, and with it, life." -Marcus Aurelius 
"If he have sinned, his is the harm, not mine. But perchance he hath not." -Marcus Aurelius 
"And as for thy life, consider what it is; a wind; not one constant wind neither, but every moment of an hour let out, and sucked in again." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Each of us lives only now, in this brief instant. The rest of our life has been lived already, or is impossible to see because it lies in the unknowable future." -Marcus Aurelius 
"To the jaundiced honey tastes bitter, and to those bitten by mad dogs water causes fear; and to little children the ball is a fine thing. Why then am I angry? Do you think that a false opinion has less power than the bile in the jaundiced or the poison in someone bitten by a mad dog?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Thou hast already had sufficient experience, that of those many things that hitherto thou hast erred and wandered about, thou couldst not find happiness in any of them. Not in syllogisms, and logical subtilties, not in wealth, not in honour and reputation, not in pleasure. In none of all these. Wherein then is it to be found? In the practice of those things, which the nature of man, as he is a man, doth require. How then shall he do those things? If his dogmata, or moral tenets and opinions (from which all motions and actions do proceed), be right and true." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Todo lo que ocurre, ocurre con razón. Lo descubrirás, si fijamente lo observares. No digo sólo que todo viene en fuerza de las consecuencias, pero también con relación a la justicia, y como si alguien distribuyera a cada cual las recompensas según su merecido. Sigue, pues, observando como has empezado, y todo cuanto hicieres hazlo con la intención de ser un hombre de bien, según la idea específica que suele formarse del hombre recto. Practica esta regla en todas tus acciones." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Men seek retreats for themselves, houses in the country, sea-shores, and mountains; and thou too art wont to desire such things very much. But this is altogether a mark of the most common sort of men, for it is in thy power whenever thou shalt choose to retire into thyself. For nowhere either with more quiet or more freedom from trouble does a man retire than into his own soul, particularly when he has within him such thoughts that by looking into them he is immediately in perfect tranquility; and I affirm that tranquility is nothing else than the good ordering of the mind." -Marcus Aurelius 
"If thou art pained by any external thing, it is not this that disturbs thee, but thy own judgment about it. And it is in thy power to wipe out this judgment now." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Be neither a great talker, nor a great undertaker." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Remind yourself too that each of us lives only in the present moment, a mere fragment of time: the rest is life past or uncertain future." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Basta abandonar todo o passado, confiar o futura à providência e dirigir a ação presente para a piedade e a justiça." -Marcus Aurelius 
"So we must have a sense of urgency, not only for the ever closer approach of death, but also because our comprehension of the world and our ability to pay proper attention will fade before we do." -Marcus Aurelius 
"¿Y qué tiene de malo o extraño que la persona sin educación haga cosas propias de un ineducado? Procura que no debas inculparte más a ti mismo por no haber previsto que ése cometería ese fallo, porque tú disponías de recursos suministrados por la razón para cerciorarte de que es natural que ése cometería ese fallo; y a pesar de tu olvido, te sorprendes de su error. Y sobre todo, siempre que censures a alguien como desleal o ingrato, recógete en ti mismo.Porque obviamente tuyo es el fallo si has confiado que tenía tal disposición, que iba a guardarte fidelidad, o si, al otorgarle un favor, no se lo concediste de buena gana, ni de manera que pudiese obtener al punto de tu acción misma todo el fruto." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Toys and fooleries at home, wars abroad: sometimes terror, sometimes torpor, or stupid sloth: this is thy daily slavery." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Better is what benefits" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Sé igual al promontorio contra el que sin interrupción baten las olas. Él permanece quieto mientras que en su derredor sucumben las aguas que bullen. »Soy desgraciado porque me ocurrió eso a mí.« Bien al contrario[271]: »Soy afortunado porque, a pesar de haberme ocurrido eso, permanezco sin pena y no me rompo por el presente ni temo el porvenir.« Porque tal cosa podría haberle sucedido a cualquiera, sin embargo cualquiera no hubiera permanecido sin pena por ello." -Marcus Aurelius 
"that evil must be overcome with good." -Marcus Aurelius 
"And you can also commit injustice by doing nothing." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Ningún suceso te impide ser justo, tener grandeza de ánimo, ser prudente, tener cabeza, no precipitarse, no ser engañoso, tener vergüenza, ser libre y las demás cualidades que si están presentes hacen que la naturaleza obtenga lo que le es propio. Acuérdate en adelante ante cualquier circunstancia que te provoque pena de usar esta máxima, que eso no es desgracia y que por el contrario soportarlo con nobleza es buena fortuna." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Will a little fame distract you?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Love that only which happens to thee and is spun with the thread of thy destiny. For what is more suitable? In" -Marcus Aurelius 
"The gods live forever and yet they don't seem annoyed at having to put up with human beings and their behavior throughout eternity. And not only put up with but actively care for them. And you—on the verge of death—you still refuse to care for them, although you're one of them yourself." -Marcus Aurelius 
"He could say, it is true, 'either there is a God, and then all is well; or if all things go by chance and fortune, yet mayest thou use thine own providence in those things that concern thee properly; and then art thou well." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Uvježbaj se da misliš samo one misli koje odgovaraju na neočekivano pitanje: ''Što ti se sada mota po mislima?'' kako bi, trenutačno i iskreno mogao reći o čemu je riječ, o ovome ili onome, i tako svojim odgovorom dati izravne dokaze o tome da su sve tvoje misli neskrivene i dobrohotne, misli društvena bića koje ne mari za hirove užitaka ili veća zadovoljstva, za suparništvo, zloću, sumnju ili sve ono što bi, priznanjem, izvuklo rumen na obraze." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Though you should live three thousand years or as many myriads, yet remember that no man loses any other life than that which now lives, nor lives any other than that which he is now losing. The longest and the shortest lives come to one effect. The present moment is the same for all men, and their loss, therefore, is equal, for it is clear that what they lose in death is but a fleeting instant of time. No man can lose either the past or the future, for how can a man be deprived of what he has not?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"If it does not harm the community, it does not harm its members. When you think you’ve been injured, apply this rule: If the community isn’t injured by it, neither am I. And if it is, anger is not the answer. Show the offender where he went wrong." -Marcus Aurelius 
"that to expect bad men not to do wrong is madness," -Marcus Aurelius 
"Be not deceived; for thou shalt never live to read thy moral commentaries, nor the acts of the famous Romans and Grecians; nor those excerpta from several books; all which thou hadst provided and laid up for thyself against thine old age. Hasten therefore to an end, and giving over all vain hopes, help thyself in time if thou carest for thyself, as thou oughtest to do." -Marcus Aurelius 
"All parts of the world, (all things I mean that are contained within the whole world), must of necessity at some time or other come to corruption. Alteration I should say, to speak truly and properly; but that I may be the better understood, I am content at this time to use that more common word." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Throw away thy books. No longer distract thyself." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Everything lasts for a day, the one who remembers and the remembered." -Marcus Aurelius 
"it will help you a great deal to keep the gods in mind as well. What they want is not flattery, but for rational things to be like them. For figs to do what figs were meant to do—and dogs, and bees … and people." -Marcus Aurelius 
"To do harm is to do yourself harm. To do an injustice is to do yourself an injustice—it degrades you." -Marcus Aurelius 
"VIII. Never esteem of anything as profitable, which shall ever constrain thee either to break thy faith, or to lose thy modesty; to hate any man, to suspect, to curse, to dissemble, to lust after anything, that requireth the secret of walls or veils." -Marcus Aurelius 
"And you can also commit injustice by doing nothing. 6. Objective judgment, now, at this very moment. Unselfish action, now, at this very moment. Willing acceptance—now, at this very moment—of all external events. That’s all you need." -Marcus Aurelius 
"since nothing comes out of nothing, and nothing can be annihilated." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Habite en ti la serenidad, la ausencia de necesidad de ayuda externa y de la tranquilidad que procuran otros. Conviene, por consiguiente, mantenerse recto, no enderezado." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Prvo - stvari ne mogu dirnuti um: one su izvanjske i nepomične; strepnja može poteći samo iz unutarnje prosudbe. Drugo, da se sve ono što vidiš mijenja još u trenutku dok to promatraš, i zatim nestaje. Neprekidno se podsjećaj da si se i ti, kakva si sebe vidio, već promojenio Univerzum je mijena - život je prosudba." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Wipe out the imagination. Stop the pulling of the strings. Confine thyself to the present. Understand well what happens either to thee or to another. Divide and distribute every object into the causal (formal) and the material. Think of thy last hour. Let the wrong which is done by a man stay there where the wrong was done. Direct" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Repentance is a kind of self-reproof for having neglected something useful; but that which is good must be something useful, and the perfect good man should look after it. But no such man would ever repent of having refused any sensual pleasure. Pleasure then is neither good nor useful." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Why all this guesswork? You can see what needs to be done. If you can see the road, follow it. Cheerfully, without turning back. If not, hold up and get the best advice you can. If anything gets in the way, forge on ahead, making good use of what you have on hand, sticking to what seems right. (The best goal to achieve, and the one we fall short of when we fail.)" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Always bear this in mind; and another thing too, that very little indeed is necessary for living a happy life. And because thou hast despaired of becoming a dialectician and skilled in the knowledge of nature, do not for this reason renounce the hope of being both free and modest, and social and obedient to God." -Marcus Aurelius 
"For it is a thing very possible, that a man should be a very divine man, and yet be altogether unknown." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Close to forgetting it all, close to being forgotten." -Marcus Aurelius 
"bear in mind that every man lives only this present time, which is an indivisible point, and that all the rest of his life is either past or it is uncertain." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Don't live as though you were going to live a myriad years. Fate is hanging over your head; while you have a life, while you may, become good." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Think not so much of what thou hast not as of what thou hast: but of the things which thou hast select the best, and then reflect how eagerly they would have been sought, if thou hadst them not. At the same time, however, take care that thou dost not through being so pleased with them accustom thyself to overvalue them, so as to be disturbed if ever thou shouldst not have them." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Short then is the time which every man lives, and small the nook of the earth where he lives; and short too the longest posthumous fame, and even this only continued by a succession of poor human beings, who will very soon die, and who know not even themselves, much less him who died long ago." -Marcus Aurelius 
"When thou hast assumed these names, good, modest, true, rational, a man of equanimity, and magnanimous, take care that thou dost not change these names; and if thou shouldst lose them, quickly return to them." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Treat what you don’t have as nonexistent. Look at what you have, the things you value most, and think of how much you’d crave them if you didn’t have them. But be careful. Don’t feel such satisfaction that you start to overvalue them—that it would upset you to lose them." -Marcus Aurelius 
"September 17, 2019 0 MinutesHow many after being celebrated by fame have been given up to oblivion; and how many who have celebrated the fame of others have long been dead." -Marcus Aurelius 
"if thou holdest to this, expecting nothing, fearing nothing, but satisfied with thy present activity according to nature, and with heroic truth in every word and sound which thou utterest, thou wilt live happy. And there is no man who is able to prevent this." -Marcus Aurelius 
"still remember that no man loses any other life than this which he now lives, nor lives any other than this which he now loses." -Marcus Aurelius 
"No longer wander at hazard; for neither will you read your own memoirs, nor the acts of the ancient Romans and Hellenes, and the selections from books you were reserving for your old age. Hasten then to your appointed end and, throwing away idle hopes, come to your own aid, if you care at all for yourself, while it is in your power." -Marcus Aurelius 
"It’s the nature of the universe—all things must change, including you. Embrace it." -Marcus Aurelius 
"The more things you examine in the light of reason, the stronger your reason grows—just as feeding more wood to a fire makes it burn brighter and higher." -Marcus Aurelius 
"There is nothing new: all things are both familiar and short-lived." -Marcus Aurelius 
"When he speaks of death as a necessary change, and points out that nothing useful and profitable can be brought about without change," -Marcus Aurelius 
"Men seek retreats for themselves, houses in the country, seashores, and mountains; and you, too, are wont to desire such things very much. But this is altogether a mark of the most common sort of men, for it is in your power whenever you choose to retire into yourself. For there is no retreat that is quieter or freer from trouble than a man's own soul, especially when he has within him such thoughts that by looking into them he is immediately in perfect tranquility; and tranquility is nothing else than the good ordering of the mind. Constantly then give to yourself this retreat, and renew yourself; and let your principles be brief and fundamental, which, as soon as you recur to them, will be sufficient to cleanse the soul completely, and to send you back free from all discontent with the the things to which you return." -Marcus Aurelius 
"These two things then thou must bear in mind; the one, that all things from eternity are of like forms and come round in a circle, and that it makes no difference whether a man shall see the same things during a hundred years or two hundred, or an infinite time; and the second, that the longest liver and he who will die soonest lose just the same. For the present is the only thing of which a man can be deprived, if it is true that this is the only thing which he has, and that a man cannot lose a thing if he has it not." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Disgraceful: that the mind should control the face, should be able to shape and mold it as it pleases, but not shape and mold itself." -Marcus Aurelius 
"If any man is able to convince me and show me that I do not think or act right, I will gladly change; for I seek the truth, by which no man was ever injured. But he is injured who abides in his error and ignorance." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Sayest thou unto that rational part, Thou art dead; corruption hath taken hold on thee? Doth it then also void excrements? Doth it like either oxen, or sheep, graze or feed; that it also should be mortal, as well as the body?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"What is it that we must bestow our care and diligence upon? even upon this only: that our minds and wills be just; that our actions be charitable; that our speech be never deceitful, or that our understanding be not subject to error; that our inclination be always set to embrace whatsoever shall happen unto us, as necessary, as usual, as ordinary, as flowing from such a beginning, and such a fountain, from which both thou thyself and all things are." -Marcus Aurelius 
"what death is, and the fact that, if a man looks at it in itself, and by the abstractive power of reflection resolves into their parts all the things which present themselves to the imagination in it, he will then consider it to be nothing else than an operation of nature;" -Marcus Aurelius 
"One man, when he has done a service to another, is ready to set it down to his account as a favor conferred. Another is not ready to do this, but still in his own mind he thinks of the man as his debtor, and he knows what he has done. A third in a manner does not even know what he has done, but he is like a vine which has produced grapes, and seeks for nothing more after it has once produced its proper fruit. As a horse when he has run, a dog when he has tackled the game, a bee when it has made the honey, so a man when he has done a good act does not call out for others to come and see, but he goes on to another act, as a vine goes on to produce again the grapes in season.—Must a man then be one of these, who in a manner act thus without observing it?—Yes.—But this very thing is necessary, the observation of what a man is doing: for, it may be said, it is characteristic of the social animal to perceive that he is working in a social manner, and indeed to wish that his social partner also should perceive it.—It is true that thou sayest, but thou dost not rightly understand what is now said: and for this reason thou wilt become one of those of whom I spoke before, for even they are misled by a certain show of reason. But if thou wilt choose to understand the meaning of what is said, do not fear that for this reason thou wilt omit any social act." -Marcus Aurelius 
"All things are linked and knitted together, and the knot is sacred, neither is there anything in the world, that is not kind and natural in regard of any other thing, or, that hath not some kind of reference and natural correspondence with whatsoever is in the world besides." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Everything which is in any way beautiful is beautiful in itself, and terminates in itself, not having praise as part of itself." -Marcus Aurelius 
"If you are pained by any external thing, it is not this thing that disturbs you, but your own judgment about it. And it is in your power to wipe out this judgment now." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Većina onoga što govorimo i što činimo nepotrebno je - ukloni površnost i imat ćeš više vremena i manje briga. Stoga bi svatko, u svakoj prilici, trebao sebe podsjetiti: ''Je li ovo, ili nije, nešto neophodno ?'' Uklanjanje nepotrebnoga trebalo bi primijeniti ne samo na djela nego i na misli - tada ne bi dolazilo do suvišnih djela." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Traže ya sebe odmorište na selu, nad morem ili u planinama. I ti obično težiš za nečim takvim. Sve je to ipak vrlo glupo jer se možeš, u kojem god trenutku da to poželiš, povući u dubinu sebe. Nigdje, naime, ne može čovjek pronaći takvoga skloništa kao u vlastitoj duši, osobito onaj koji u sebi ima takvo utočiste da odmah osjeti lakoću kada se u njega zagleda. Lakoćom ne nazivam ništa drugo nego unutarnji red. Koristi taj zaklon što je moguće češće i obnavljaj samoga sebe." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Look within; within is the fountain of all good. Such a fountain, where springing waters can never fail, so thou dig still deeper and deeper." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Upon every action that thou art about, put this question to thyself; How will this when it is done agree with me? Shall I have no occasion to repent of it? Yet a very little while and I am dead and gone; and all things are at end. What then do I care for more than this, that my present action whatsoever it be, may be the proper action of one that is reasonable; whose end is, the common good; who in all things is ruled and governed by the same law of right and reason," -Marcus Aurelius 
"The universe is transformation: life is opinion." -Marcus Aurelius 
"nor does he deviate from the way which leads to the end of life, to which a man ought to come pure, tranquil, ready to depart, and without any compulsion perfectly reconciled to his lot." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Straight, not straightened." -Marcus Aurelius 
"14. Let it happen, if it wants, to whatever it can happen to. And what’s affected can complain about it if it wants. It doesn’t hurt me unless I interpret its happening as harmful to me. I can choose not to." -Marcus Aurelius 
"It is in our power to have no opinion about a thing, and not to be disturbed in our soul; for things themselves have no natural power to form our judgements" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Inquire of thyself as soon as thou wakest from sleep, whether it will make any difference to thee, if another does what is just and right. It will make no difference." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Budi poput krševite obale o koju se neprestance lome valovi. Ona stoji postojano, a oko nje uzavrele vode polako se smiruju." -Marcus Aurelius 
"You are but an impression, and not at all what you seem to be'." -Marcus Aurelius 
"What then is that which is able to conduct a man? One thing and only one, philosophy. But this consists in keeping the daemon within a man free from violence and unharmed, superior to pains and pleasures, doing nothing without purpose, nor yet falsely and with hypocrisy, not feeling the need of another man’s doing or not doing anything; and besides, accepting all that happens, and all that is allotted, as coming from thence, wherever it is, from whence he himself came; and, finally, waiting for death with a cheerful mind, as being nothing else than a dissolution of the elements of which every living being is compounded. But if there is no harm to the elements themselves in each continually changing into another, why should a man have any apprehension about the change and dissolution of all the elements? For it is according to nature, and nothing is evil which is according to nature." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Por lo demás, todo lo que es bello en cierto modo, bello es por sí mismo, y termina en sí mísmo sin considerar el elogio como parte de sí mismo. En consecuencia, ni se empeora ni se mejora el objeto que se alaba." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Of all existing things some are in our power, and others are not in our power." -Marcus Aurelius 
"That soul which is ever ready, even now presently (if need be) from the body, whether by way of extinction, or dispersion, or continuation in another place and estate to be separated, how blessed and happy is it! But this readiness of it, it must proceed, not from an obstinate and peremptory resolution of the mind, violently and passionately set upon Opposition, as Christians are wont; but from a peculiar judgment; with discretion and gravity, so that others may be persuaded also and drawn to the like example, but without any noise and passionate exclamations." -Marcus Aurelius 
"What a subject, and what a course of life is it, that thou doest so much desire to be rid of. For all these things, what are they, but fit objects for an understanding, that beholdeth everything according to its true nature, to exercise itself upon? Be patient, therefore, until that (as a strong stomach that turns all things into his own nature; and as a great fire that turneth in flame and light, whatsoever thou doest cast into it) thou have made these things also familiar, and as it were natural unto thee." -Marcus Aurelius 
"In sum, remember this, that within a very little while, both thou and he shall both be dead, and after a little while more, not so much as your names and memories shall be remaining." -Marcus Aurelius 
"-Moja loša sreća kriva je što me to snašlo.-Ne, radije reci: Moja je sreća, što, iako me to snašlo, mogu sve to otrpjeti bez patnje, da me sadašnjica ne zdrobi, i da ne strepim pred budućnošću." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Fancy not to thyself things future, as though they were present but of those that are present, take some aside, that thou takest most benefit of, and consider of them particularly, how wonderfully thou wouldst want them, if they were not present." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Give what thou wilt, and take away what thou wilt, saith he that is well taughtand truly modest, to Him that gives, and takes away. And it is not out of a stout andperemptory resolution, that he saith it, but in mere love, and humble submission." -Marcus Aurelius 
"What, then, should we strive for in life? Right thoughts, beneficial actions, honest speech, and a cheerful disposition. These things are in harmony with, and flow from, the eternal Source of all." -Marcus Aurelius 
"The duration of a person’s life is only a moment; our substance is flowing away this very moment; the senses are dim; the composition of the body is decaying, the soul is chaos, our fate is unknowable, and reputation uncertain. In a word all bodily things are like a flowing river, and everything of the soul is dream and smoke, and life is all warfare and a stranger’s wanderings, and the reward is oblivion. What then could possibly guide us? Only one thing: Philosophy." -Marcus Aurelius 
"No longer talk at all about the kind of man that a good man ought to be, but be such." -Marcus Aurelius 
"21. If anyone can refute me—show me I’m making a mistake or looking at things from the wrong perspective—I’ll gladly change. It’s the truth I’m after, and the truth never harmed anyone. What harms us is to persist in self-deceit and ignorance." -Marcus Aurelius 
"concerned with the act more than with the intent." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Let it not be in any man's power, to say truly of thee, that thou art not truly simple, or sincere and open, or not good. Let him be deceived whosoever he be that shall have any such opinion of thee. For all this doth depend of thee. For who is it that should hinder thee from being either truly simple or good? Do thou only resolve rather not to live, than not to be such." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Otro segundo principio es el de saber qué cosas dependen de nosotros y qué cosas no, y cifrar la felicidad en las primeras." -Marcus Aurelius 
"This that I am, whatever it be, is mere flesh and a little breath and the ruling Reason." -Marcus Aurelius 
"27. Treat what you don’t have as nonexistent. Look at what you have, the things you value most, and think of how much you’d crave them if you didn’t have them. But be careful. Don’t feel such satisfaction that you start to overvalue them—that it would upset you to lose them." -Marcus Aurelius 
"We’re all human beings. Why hate anyone, flatter anyone, lord over anyone, or bow before anyone?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Everywhere, at each moment, you have the option: to accept this event with humility to treat this person as he should be treated to approach this thought with care, so that nothing irrational creeps in." -Marcus Aurelius 
"But Marcus Aurelius knows that what the heart is full of, the man will do." -Marcus Aurelius 
"For whatsoever it be, it is in thy power either to do it, or to say it, and therefore seek not any pretences, as though thou wert hindered." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Whatever is beautiful at all is beautiful in itself. Its beauty ends there, and praise has no part in it. Nothing is the better or the worse for being praised; and this holds also of what is beautiful in the common estimation: of material forms and works of art. Thus true beauty needs nothing beyond itself, any more than law, or truth, or kindness, or honour. For none of these gets a single grace from praise or one blot from censure. Does the emerald lose its virtue if one praise it not? Can one by scanting praise depreciate gold, ivory, or purple, a lyre or a dagger, a flower or a shrub?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"the main thing we were made for is to work with others. Secondly, to resist our body’s urges. Because things driven by logos—by thought—have the capacity for detachment—to resist impulses and sensations, both of which are merely corporeal. Thought seeks to be their master, not their subject." -Marcus Aurelius 
"my soul, the time I trust will be, when thou shalt be good, simple, single, more open and visible, than that body by which it is enclosed. Thou wilt one day be sensible of their happiness, whose end is love, and their affections dead to all worldly things. Thou shalt one day be full, and in want of no external thing: not seeking pleasure from anything, either living or insensible," -Marcus Aurelius 
"Nothing that goes on in anyone else’s mind can harm you. Nor can the shifts and changes in the world around you. —Then where is harm to be found? In your capacity to see it." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Mancher, der jemandem eine Gefälligkeit erwiesen hat, ist sogleich beider Hand, sie ihm in Rechnung zu stellen; ein anderer ist zwar dazu nicht sogleich bereit, denkt sich aber doch denselben in anderer Hinsicht als seinen Schuldner und hat den geleisteten Dienst immer in Gedanken. Ein dritter dagegen weiß gewissermaßen nicht einmal, was er geleistet hat; er ist dem Weinstocke gleich, der Trauben trägt und nichts weiter will, zufrieden, daß er seine Frucht gegeben hat. Wie ein Pferd, das dahin rennt, ein Hund nach der Jagd und eine Biene, die ihren Honig bereitet: so der Mensch, der Gutes getan hat; er posaunt es nicht aus, sondern schreitet zu einem andern guten Werke, wie der Weinstock sich berankt, um zu seiner Zeit wieder Trauben zu tragen." -Marcus Aurelius 
"28. Death. The end of sense-perception, of being controlled by our emotions, of mental activity, of enslavement to our bodies." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Speak what you really think, not what you think people want to hear." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Shall I do it? I will; so the end of my action be to do good unto men. Doth anything by way of cross or adversity happen unto me? I accept it, with reference unto the Gods, and their providence; the fountain of all things, from which whatsoever comes to pass, doth hang and depend" -Marcus Aurelius 
"11. When thou hast been compelled by circumstances to be disturbed in a manner, quickly return to thyself, and do not continue out of tune longer than the compulsion lasts; for thou wilt have more mastery over the harmony by continually recurring to it." -Marcus Aurelius 
"To wait until the emergency is to be too late." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Sudi o sebi sukladno svakoj riječi ili djelu što su u skladu s prirodom i ne dopuštaj da te ikakve i ičije zakašnjele kritike i uvjeravanja odvrate od toga .Ne, ako je to bilo dobro reći ili učiniti, onda se ne odriči vlastita prava. Te druge vodi njihov um i oni se pokoravaju vlastitim porivima. Neka te ništa takvo ne smeta, nastavi ravno naprijed i slijedi vlastitu prirodu kao i prirodu univerzuma - njih dvije kroče jednom i istom stazom." -Marcus Aurelius 
"37. Disgraceful: that the mind should control the face, should be able to shape and mold it as it pleases, but not shape and mold itself." -Marcus Aurelius 
"In order to act well in this world, you must first accept it. Justice, generosity, and gratitude flow from a mind that embraces all things, in harmony with our nature as rational and social beings.  Injustice, selfishness, and fear flow from a mind that complains about and fights against things as they are, straying from reason and society." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Remember that to change your mind and to accept correction are free acts too. The action is yours, based on your own will, your own decision—and your own mind." -Marcus Aurelius 
"You can’t set down rules for others until you have first followed them yourself." -Marcus Aurelius 
"56. Think of yourself as dead. You have lived your life. Now take what’s left and live it properly." -Marcus Aurelius 
"In a wicked generation, might makes right, violence is praised, and virtue is slandered.” —Hesiod, Works and Days" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Against our will, our souls are cut off from truth.” Truth, yes, and justice, self-control, kindness … Important to keep this in mind. It will make you more patient with other people." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Предметы, преследуя и избегая которые, ты лишаешься мира душевного, не приступают к тебе, но ты некоторым образом сам приступаешь к ним. Пусть смолкнет твое суждение о них – и они лежат недвижимо; а тебя никто не увидит ни преследующим, ни бегущим." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Each morning, remind yourself that this day may be your last. And when you tuck your children into bed at night, remember that they, too, are mortals who someday will die." -Marcus Aurelius 
"For times when you feel pain: See that it doesn’t disgrace you, or degrade your intelligence—doesn’t keep it from acting rationally or unselfishly. And in most cases what Epicurus said should help: that pain is neither unbearable nor unending, as long as you keep in mind its limits and don’t magnify them in your imagination. And keep in mind too that pain often comes in disguise—as drowsiness, fever, loss of appetite.… When you’re bothered by things like that, remind yourself: "I’m giving in to pain." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Wipe off all idle fancies, and say unto thyself incessantly; Now if I will, it is in my power to keep out of this my soul all wickedness, all lust, and concupiscences, all trouble and confusion." -Marcus Aurelius 
"No obres como quien ha de vivir diez mil años. Lo irreparable está ya suspendido encima de ti. Mientras vives, mientras es aún posible, sé hombre de bien." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Don’t bind yourself, with the chains of desire and fear, to things that are outside your sphere of control. This is a matter of sanity.” —Epictetus" -Marcus Aurelius 
"From Claudius Maximus, in all things to endeavour to have power of myself, and in nothing to be carried about; to be cheerful and courageous in all sudden chances and accidents, as in sicknesses: to love mildness, and moderation, and gravity: and to do my business, whatsoever it be, thoroughly, and without querulousness." -Marcus Aurelius 
"fix thy mind upon the thing itself; look into it, and remembering thyself, that thou art bound nevertheless to be a good man, and what it is that thy nature requireth of thee as thou art a man, be not diverted from what thou art about, and speak that which seemeth unto thee most just: only speak it kindly, modestly, and without hypocrisy." -Marcus Aurelius 
"preocuparse de su propio cuerpo con mesura, no como si tuviera apego a la vida, sin llegar al maquillaje pero tampoco desde luego al abandono, de forma que por su propia diligencia precisaba poquísimo de la medicina, de sus medicamentos o ungüentos, de uso interno o externo; ceder" -Marcus Aurelius 
"That I have such a wife, so obedient," -Marcus Aurelius 
"71. It’s silly to try to escape other people’s faults. They are inescapable. Just try to escape your own." -Marcus Aurelius 
"¡Cuánta holgura se logra si no se mira lo que el vecino dijo, hizo o pensó, sino lo que hace uno mismo, para que también esta acción sea justa, santa y conforme con el bien! No observes los malos caracteres, sino lleva adelante tu camino hacia el fin, sin mirar acá ni allá, por los lados." -Marcus Aurelius 
"The winds blow upon the trees, and their leaves fall upon the ground. Then do the trees begin to bud again, and by the spring-time they put forth new branches. So is the generation of men; some come into the world, and others go out of it.' Of these leaves then thy children are. And they also that applaud thee so gravely, or, that applaud thy speeches, with that their usual acclamation," -Marcus Aurelius 
"What do you want, rational minds or irrational?” Rational minds. "What sort of rational minds, calm or disturbed?” Calm. "How can you acquire calm, rational minds?” We already have them. "Really? Then why are you squabbling among yourselves?” —Socrates" -Marcus Aurelius 
"For every action, ask: How does it affect me? Could I change my mind about it?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"aplicar la anécdota referida a Sócrates[162] de que podía al tiempo abstenerse y disfrutar de aquello por lo que la mayoría en caso de abstinencia se siente débil y en caso de disfrute se dejan llevar; ser fuerte y resistente y en ambas cosas ser sobrio [es" -Marcus Aurelius 
"if in every particular action thou dost perform what is fitting to the utmost of thy power, let it suffice thee. And who can hinder thee, but that thou mayest perform what is fitting? But there may be some outward let and impediment. Not any, that can hinder thee, but that whatsoever thou dost, thou may do it, justly, temperately, and with the praise of God." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Everything in any way beautiful has its beauty of itself, inherent and self-sufficient: praise is no part of it." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Para descansar se buscan las apacibles soledades del campo, las orillas delmar o las serenas montañas. Tú también deseas esto ardientemente y con frecuencia. Y, sin embargo, todo esto no es sino prueba de vulgaridad de espíritu, ya que en cualquier momento que elijamos podemos buscar un retiro incomparable dentro de nosotrosmismos.En ninguna parte, en efecto, puede hallar el hombre un retiro tan apacible y tranquilo como en la intimidad de su alma, sobre todo si posee esos dones preciososque, por sí solos, constituyen la libertad del alma, y entendiendo por libertad del alma el estado de un alma en que todo está perfectamente ordenado. Goza, pues, sin cesar de esta soledad y recobra en ella nuevas fuerzas.También encontrarás pensamientos breves y fundamentales que, cuando sepresenten a tu memoria, disiparán en seguida tus inquietudes y te darán ánimos para soportar sin indignación y contrarrestar todo lo que te salga al paso. En consecuencia, ¿de qué te indignas? ¿De la maldad de los hombres, acaso? Tranquilízate, pues, y ten presente que todos los seres racionales han sido creados para soportarse y convivir unoscon otros, que esta paciencia forma parte de la justicia y que sus faltas son involuntarias. Recuerda también que los que pasaron su vida en enemistades, sospechas, odios y querellas hoy ya están en la tumba reducidos a cenizas. Esto te ayudará a adquirir la necesaria calma.Pero ¿es que, quizá, te hallas descontento con la parte que te haya correspondidoen la repartición de los destinos? Si es así, ten en cuenta que el mundo o es la obra de una Providencia o una reunión fortuita de átomos, y en esta alternativa se te ha indicado claramente que es como una verdadera ciudad.¿Te ves importunado, en todo caso, por las sensaciones del cuerpo? Piensa quenuestro entendimiento no toma parte alguna en las impresiones agradables o disciplentes que el alma sensitiva experimenta, acaso porque, encerrado dentro de sí mismo, solo reconoce sus propias fuerzas. Recuerda también todo lo que te han enseñado acerca del placer y del dolor, y no olvides que has aceptado esta doctrina. ¿Será que te atormenta el deseo de la vanagloria? Si es así, considera la rapidezcon que cae en el olvido todo lo de este mundo, el inmenso abismo de la eternidad que te ha precedido y que te seguirá, la vanidad de las glorias humanas, la inestabilidad de las cosas, el favor inestable del vulgo, su carencia de discernimiento y, en fin, elestrecho espacio en que se halla circunscrita la fama. La tierra, por sí sola, no es más que un punto en el espacio y un rincón habitado insignificante; ahora bien: ¿por cuántos y por qué clase de individuos serás recordado en este mísero rincón?Para terminar, acuérdate, pues, de buscar un retiro en el fondo de tu corazón, y,sobre todo, no te desanimes; huye de la obstinación inconsiderada y permanece libre. Considera todas las cosas con una firmeza varonil, como hombre, como ciudadano, como un ser destinado a morir. Y cuando examines interiormente tus principios morales, observa, en primer lugar, que los objetos que no se relacionan con el alma permanecen inmóviles, y que sus perturbaciones provienen solo de la opinión que se ha formadodentro de sí misma, y en segundo lugar, que todo lo que ves ahora ha de cambiar de un momento a otro y será reducido más tarde a la nada. ¡No lo olvides nunca! El mundo no es más que una transformación, y la vida, una opinión." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Don’t cling to possessions and other external things; cling only to the divine spark within you." -Marcus Aurelius 
"If you work at that which is before you, following right reason seriously, vigorously, calmly, without allowing anything else to distract you, but keeping your divine part pure, as if you should be bound to give it back immediately; if you hold to this, expecting nothing, fearing nothing, but satisfied with your present activity according to nature, and with heroic truth in every word and sound which you utter, you will live happy. And there is no-one who is able to prevent this." -Marcus Aurelius 
"A good eye must be good to see whatsoever is to be seen, and not green things only. For that is proper to sore eyes. So must a good ear, and a good smell be ready for whatsoever is either to be heard, or smelt: and a good stomach as indifferent to all kinds of food, as a millstone is, to whatsoever she was made for to grind." -Marcus Aurelius 
"There’s nothing more insufferable than people who boast about their own humility." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Does anything genuinely beautiful need supplementing? No more than justice does—or truth, or kindness, or humility. Are any of those improved by being praised? Or damaged by contempt? Is an emerald suddenly flawed if no one admires it? Or gold, or ivory, or purple? Lyres? Knives? Flowers? Bushes?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Keep in mind how fast things pass by and are gone—those that are now, and those to come. Existence flows past us like a river: the "what” is in constant flux, the "why” has a thousand variations. Nothing is stable, not even what’s right here. The infinity of past and future gapes before us—a chasm whose depths we cannot see." -Marcus Aurelius 
"XXV. How hast thou carried thyself hitherto towards the Gods? towards thy parents? towards thy brethren? towards thy wife? towards thy children? towards thy masters? thy foster-fathers? thy friends? thy domestics? thy servants? Is it so with thee, that hitherto thou hast neither by word or deed wronged any of them? Remember withal through how many things thou hast already passed, and how many thou hast been able to endure; so that now the legend of thy life is full, and thy charge is accomplished. Again, how many truly good things have certainly by thee been discerned? how many pleasures, how many pains hast thou passed over with contempt? how many things eternally glorious hast thou despised? towards how many perverse unreasonable men hast thou carried thyself kindly, and discreetly?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Desde el alba hay que decirse con énfasis a uno mismo: me toparé con el entrometido, con el desagradecido, con el soberbio, con el taimado, con el malicioso, el insociable. Todos" -Marcus Aurelius 
"What, then, makes for a good person? These principles: Be content in all circumstances, accepting whatever Fate brings you; preserve the spark of divinity within, not crowding it out with entertainments and distractions; follow the light of reason, always speaking truly and acting justly; live simply and serenely, disregarding what others may say about you; be happy with your lot in life, and ready to depart when you’re called." -Marcus Aurelius 
"to be grieved and displeased with anything that happens in the world, is direct apostacy from the nature of the universe; part of which, all particular natures of the world, are." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Nothing is so productive of greatness of mind as the ability to examine systematically and truthfully each thing we encounter in life, and to see these things in such a way as to comprehend the nature of the Cosmos." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Will any contemn me? let him look to that, upon what grounds he does it: my care shall be that I may never be found either doing or speaking anything that doth truly deserve contempt. Will any hate me? let him look to that. I for my part will be kind and loving unto all, and even unto him that hates me, whom-soever he be, will I be ready to show his error, not by way of exprobation or ostentation of my patience, but ingenuously and meekly:" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Yo, al contrario, tras haber contemplado la naturaleza del bien y ver que es algo bello, y la del mal y ver que es algo vergonzoso, y la naturaleza del que yerra y ver que es de mi linaje, no por la misma sangre o simiente, sino por ser partícipe de la inteligencia[180] y fracción divina[181], tampoco puedo subir perjuicio por parte de alguno de ellos, porque nadie me cubrirá de vergüenza; tampoco puedo encolerizarme con el que es de mi linaje ni odiarlo. Hemos" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Thou art a little soul bearing about a corpse, as Epictetus used to say (I. C. 19)." -Marcus Aurelius 
"You consist of body, breath (or life), and mind. Body and breath are yours to care for, while the mind is the part that does the caring. Mind is the gateway to your core self. Remember that who you are is separate from outside events and circumstances, worries about what might happen in the future, your bodily ills and pains, what others do or say, and even what you yourself have done and said in the past. Freedom consists in detaching from all these things that are not you, and letting them be whatever they will be. Then your core self will be like Empedocles’ sphere, "Perfectly round, whole, and in joyous rest reposing." -Marcus Aurelius 
"No time for reading. For controlling your arrogance, yes. For overcoming pain and pleasure, yes. For outgrowing ambition, yes. For not feeling anger at stupid and unpleasant people—even for caring about them—for that, yes." -Marcus Aurelius 
"For what hurt can it be unto thee whatsoever any man else doth, as long as thou mayest do that which is proper and suitable to thine own nature?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Entrar en conflicto unos con otros es contrario a la naturaleza; conflicto es enfadarse y darse media vuelta. " -Marcus Aurelius 
"It is noteworthy that in his meditations Marcus Aurelius mentions Fronto only once.(2) All his literary studies, his oratory and criticism (such as it was) is forgotten; and, says he, 'Fronto taught me not to expect natural affection from the highly-born.' Fronto really said more than this: that 'affection' is not a Roman quality, nor has it a Latin name.(3) Roman or not Roman, Marcus found affection in Fronto; and if he outgrew his master's intellectual training, he never lost touch with the true heart of the man it is that which Fronto's name brings up to his remembrance, not dissertations on compound verbs or fatuous criticisms of style." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Zbog čega si nezadovoljan? Zbog prevrtljivosti ljudi? Još jednom promisli o tome kako razumna stvorenja postoje zbog uzajamne pomoći i kako je razumijevanje drugoga dio pravednosti, i kako ljudi griješe nerado i protiv svoje volje, i tome koliko je ljudi, koji su se borili i uzajamno sumnjičili, mrzili, čiji su odnosi bili na nožu, umrlo i raspalo se u prah - pomisli o tome i konačno se odmori." -Marcus Aurelius 
"which are assigned to thee by the common nature; and that Magnanimity is the elevation of the intelligent part above the pleasurable or painful sensations of the flesh, and above that poor thing called fame, and death, and all such things. If, then, thou maintainest thyself in the possession of these names, without desiring to be called by these names by others, thou wilt be another person and wilt enter on another life. For to continue to be such as thou hast hitherto been, and to be tom in pieces and defiled in such a life, is the character of a very stupid man and one overfond of his life, and like those half-devoured fighters with wild beasts, who though covered with wounds and gore, still intreat to be kept to the following day, though they will be exposed in the same state to the same claws and bites. Therefore fix thyself in the possession of these few names: and if thou art able to abide in them, abide as if thou wast removed to certain islands of the Happy." -Marcus Aurelius 
"When you face someone’s insults, hatred, whatever … look at his soul. Get inside him. Look at what sort of person he is. You’ll find you don’t need to strain to impress him." -Marcus Aurelius 
"I often wonder how it is that most people value their own lives above others, yet value other’s opinions of them over their own self-opinions." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Suppose you lived for a thousand years, or ten thousand years; would you have any more life than you have now? When you finally died, would you lose any more life than you’d lose if you died today?This present moment is all the life we ever have. The longest life and the shortest converge on this same point. No matter how many years stretch behind or in front of us, the present moment remains the same.The person who lives shortest owns the exact same amount of life as the one who lives longest. For the present is all we have and all we can lose. When we die, we don’t "lose” the past or future—we never owned them.Eternity revolves like a wheel, with its circumference touching a still point—the present moment. Whether you stay at that point for hundred years, a thousand, or infinitely, you’ll only see the same cycles repeating themselves." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Estás viendo qué pocas son las cosas que debe uno dominar para poder vivir una vida próspera y respetuosa con la divinidad, porque los dioses no exigirán nada más al que mantenga esto." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Što god itko učini ili kaže, ja moram biti dobar čovjek. Kao da smaragd, ili zlato, ili purpur, neprekidno govore: ''Što god itko učini ili kaže, moram biti smaragd i očuvati vlastitu boju." -Marcus Aurelius 
"If thou art pained by any external thing, it is not this thing that disturbs thee, but thy own judgement about it." -Marcus Aurelius 
"A man might have applied that to him, which is recorded of Socrates, that he knew how to want, and to enjoy those things, in the want whereof, most men show themselves weak; and in the fruition, intemperate: but to hold out firm and constant, and to keep within the compass of true moderation and sobriety in either estate, is proper to a man, who hath a perfect and invincible soul; such as he showed himself in the sickness of Maximus." -Marcus Aurelius 
"When you have to deal with someone, ask yourself: What does he mean by good and bad? If he thinks x or y about pleasure and pain (and what produces them), about fame and disgrace, about death and life, then it shouldn’t shock or surprise you when he does x or y. In fact, I’ll remind myself that he has no real choice." -Marcus Aurelius 
"When thou art hard to be stirred up and awaked out of thy sleep, admonish thyself and call to mind, that, to perform actions tending to the common good is that which thine own proper constitution, and that which the nature of man do require. But to sleep, is common to unreasonable creatures also. And what more proper and natural, yea what more kind and pleasing, than that which is according to nature?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"To change your experience, change your opinion. Stop telling yourself that you’re a victim and the pain goes away." -Marcus Aurelius 
"You say — ‘It’s unfortunate that this has happened to me.’ No. It’s fortunate that this has happened and I’ve remained unharmed by it — not shattered by the present or frightened of the future. It could have happened to anyone. But not everyone could have remained unharmed by it." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Tres son las relaciones. Una con el recipiente[388] que nos contiene, otra con la causa divina a partir de la cual suceden a todos todas las cosas y otra con quienes convivimos." -Marcus Aurelius 
"forzoso que sean infelices quienes no siguen de cerca los movimientos de su propia alma." -Marcus Aurelius 
"And why should we feel anger at the world? As if the world would notice!" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Think continually how many physicians are dead after often contracting their eyebrows over the sick; and how many astrologers after predicting with great pretensions the deaths of others; and how many philosophers after endless discourses on death or immortality; how many heroes after killing thousands; and how many tyrants who have used their power over men’s lives with terrible insolence as if they were immortal; and how many cities are entirely dead, so to speak, Helice and Pompeii and Herculaneum, and others innumerable. Add" -Marcus Aurelius 
"If it’s in your control, why do you do it? If it’s in someone else’s, then who are you blaming? Atoms? The gods? Stupid either way. Blame no one. Set people straight, if you can. If not, just repair the damage. And suppose you can’t do that either. Then where does blaming people get you? No pointless actions." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Dost thou wish to be praised by a man who curses himself thrice every hour? wouldst thou wish to please a man who does not please himself?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"A man cannot any whither retire better than to his own soul;" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Even if you were destined to live three thousand years, or ten times that long, nevertheless remember that no one loses any life other than the one he lives, or lives any life other than the life he loses. It follows that the longest and the shortest lives are brought to the same state. The present moment is equal for all; so what is passing is equal also; the loss therefore turns out to be the merest fragment of time. No one can lose either the past or the future -- how could anyone be deprived of what he does not possess?So always remember these two things. First, that all things have been of the same kind from everlasting, coming round and round again, and it makes no difference whether one will see the same things for a hundred years, or two hundred years, or for an infinity of time. Second, that both the longest-lived and the earliest to die suffer the same loss. It is only the present moment of which either stands to be deprived: and if indeed this is all he has, he cannot lose what he does not have." -Marcus Aurelius 
"no man loses any other life than this which he now lives, nor lives any other than this which he now loses." -Marcus Aurelius 
"que está enojado se revuelve contra la razón aparentemente con cierta tristeza y encogimiento inconsciente, mientras que el que yerra por apetencia se deja vencer por el placer y aparentemente es más licencioso y femeninamente débil en sus faltas. Con" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Wipe out imagination; check desire: extinguish appetite: keep the ruling faculty in its own power." -Marcus Aurelius 
"A man should be upright, not be kept upright." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Nothing will stand in the way of thy acting justly and soberly and considerately." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Use thyself even unto those things that thou doest at first despair of. For the left hand we see, which for the most part hieth idle because not used; yet doth it hold the bridle with more strength than the right, because it hath been used unto it." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Say this to yourself in the morning: Today I shall have to do with meddlers, with the ungrateful, with the insolent, with the crafty, with the envious and the selfish." -Marcus Aurelius 
"the term of your time is circumscribed, and that unless you use it to attain calm of mind, time will be gone and you will be gone and the opportunity to use it will not be yours again." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Mrk pogled na licu protivan je prirodi, a kad postane uobičajenim, izražajnost počinje umirati ili je već konačno ugasla i ne može je se više užgati. Pokušavaj poštivati tu prosudbu- da je to nešto protivno razumu. U polju moralna ponašanja, ako nestane čak i svijest o pogrešnome, ostaje li za život još imalo razuma?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"From Alexander the Platonic, not frequently nor without necessity to say to any one, or to write in a letter, that I have no leisure; nor continually to excuse the neglect of duties required by our relation to those with whom we live, by alleging urgent occupations." -Marcus Aurelius 
"El sufrimiento, o bien es un mal para el cuerpo (por tanto, que éste lo proclame), o lo es para el alma, a la que es posible preservar su propia serenidad y calma, y no suponer que es un mal. Cualquier juicio, impulso, apetito y rechazo están dentro y ahí no penetra ningún mal." -Marcus Aurelius 
"El que no sabe qué es el universo no sabe dónde está. El que no sabe para qué ha crecido no sabe quién es. El que deja sin resolver una sola de estas cosas no podría decir ni qué es el universo ni para qué ha crecido. Entonces, ¿cómo te parece que es quien va detrás del ruido de gente que aplaude sin saber ni dónde está ni quién es?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"To live happily is an inward power of the soul, when she is affected with indifferency, towards those things that are by their nature indifferent." -Marcus Aurelius 
"This is what you deserve. You could be good today. But instead you choose tomorrow." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Now it is in our power, not to print them; and if they creep in and lurk in some corner, it is in our power to wipe them off." -Marcus Aurelius 
"La muerte y la vida, la buena fama y la mala, el sufrimiento y el placer, la riqueza y la pobreza, todas esas cosas ocurren indistintamente a los hombres tanto a los buenos como a los malos porque no son ni hermosas ni vergonzosas. No son ni buenas ni malas[192]" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Look at who they really are, the people whose approval you long for, and what their minds are really like. Then you won’t blame the ones who make mistakes they can’t help, and you won’t feel a need for their approval. You will have seen the sources of both—their judgments and their actions." -Marcus Aurelius 
"How plain does it appear that there is not another condition of life so well suited for philosophising as this in which thou now happenest to be." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Of everything thou must consider from whence it came, of what things it doth consist, and into what it will be changed: what will be the nature of it, or what it will be like unto when it is changed; and that it can suffer no hurt by this change." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Most of what we say and do is not essential. If you can eliminate it, you'll have more time and tranquility. Ask yourself at every moment, Is this necessary?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"What harm is done, or what is there strange if the man who has not been instructed does the acts of an uninstructed man? Consider wether you should not rather blame yourself because you did not expect such a man to err in such a way, for you had the means given you by your reason to suppose that it was likely that he would commit this error, and yet you forgotten and are amazed that he is erred. But most of all, when you blame a man as faithless or ungrateful, turn to yourself, for the fault is manifestly your own, either you did trust that a man who had such a disposition would keep his promise or when conferring your kindness, you did not confer it absolutely, nor yet in such a way as to have received from your very act all the profit." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Remember, that to change thy mind upon occasion, and to follow him that is able to rectify thee, is equally ingenuous, as to find out at the first, what is right and just, without help. For of thee nothing is required, ti, is beyond the extent of thine own deliberation and jun. merit, and of thine own understanding." -Marcus Aurelius 
"If once round and solid, there is no fear that ever it will change." -Marcus Aurelius 
"61. To enter others’ minds and let them enter yours." -Marcus Aurelius 
"2.12 Es propio de la facultad inteligente fijarse en cómo desaparece rápidamente todo, las propias personas en el universo, los recuerdos de esas personas en el tiempo; en" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Phocion" -Marcus Aurelius 
"No hay nada más desventurado que quien recorre todo en derredor, explora »lo que está debajo de la tierra«, dice[193], e investiga en las almas de los que están cerca mediante el uso de indicios[194], sin darse cuenta de que basta estar sólo ante el espíritu divino que está dentro de uno mismo y ser su servidor de verdad. Este" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Death is relief from reaction to the senses, from the puppet strings of impulse, from the analytical mind, and from service to the flesh." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Write off your hopes, and if your well-being matters to you, be your own savior while you can." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Now a man should take away not only unnecessary acts, but also, unnecessary thoughts, for thus superfluous acts will not follow after. Try" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Rationality is the quality of seeing past appearances to discern the true nature of things. We call a person rational who is evenhanded and unprejudiced. Equanimity means the calm acceptance of all that exists and all that happens. Magnanimity means greatness of spirit, unmoved by the lure of pleasure, the lust for fame, and the fear of death." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Let no one have the chance to accuse you, with any truth, of not being sincere or a good man. Make sure that anyone taking that view of you is a liar. This is wholly up to you -- who is there to prevent you being good and sincere?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"that it is not the sins and transgressions themselves that trouble us properly; for they have their existence in their minds and understandings only, that commit them; but our own opinions concerning those sins. Remove then, and be content to part with that conceit of thine, that it is a grievous thing, and thou hast removed thine anger." -Marcus Aurelius 
"XXIX. As they that long after figs in winter when they cannot be had; so are they that long after children, before they be granted them. XXX." -Marcus Aurelius 
"So that we may say, that whatsoever is, is but as it were the seed of that which shall be." -Marcus Aurelius 
"People try to get away from it all—to the country, to the beach, to the mountains. You always wish that you could too. Which is idiotic: you can get away from it anytime you like. By going within. Nowhere you can go is more peaceful—more free of interruptions—than your own soul. Especially if you have other things to rely on. An instant’s recollection and there it is: complete tranquillity. And by tranquillity I mean a kind of harmony. So keep getting away from it all—like that. Renew yourself. But keep it brief and basic. A quick visit should be enough to ward off all <…> and send you back ready to face what awaits you." -Marcus Aurelius 
"2. How can our principles become dead, unless the impressions [thoughts] which correspond to them are extinguished? But it is in thy power continuously to fan these thoughts into a flame. I can have that opinion about anything, which I ought to have. If I can, why am I disturbed? The things which are external to my mind have no relation at all to my mind. Let this be the state of thy affects, and thou standest erect. To recover thy life is in thy power. Look at things again as thou didst use to look at them; for in this consists the recovery of thy life." -Marcus Aurelius 
"De mi padre[144] la gentileza, la firmeza sin oscilación en decisiones previamente analizadas; no vanagloriarse en lo que se considera motivo de honras; ser amigo del esfuerzo y perseverar; prestar oídos a quien tiene algo en bien del común que proponer; no dejarse pervertir al distribuir a cada" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Qui una sola cosa ha valore: trascorrere tutta la vita nella verità e nella giustizia pur trattando con indulgenza i bugiardi e gli ingiusti." -Marcus Aurelius 
"frenar durante su mandato las aclamaciones y cualquier adulación; ser vigilante de las necesidades del imperio," -Marcus Aurelius 
"when I have anything to do, to do it myself rather than by others; not to meddle with many businesses; and not easily to admit of any slander." -Marcus Aurelius 
"All is change. You yourself are continuously changing and being destroyed bit by bit. So is the whole universe." -Marcus Aurelius 
"how many things may and do oftentimes follow upon such fits of anger and grief; far more grievous in themselves, than those very things which we are so grieved or angry for." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Ako te uvrijedi nečiji manjak stida, moraš odmah upitati sebe: ''Dakle, je li moguće da na svijetu ne bude besramnika?'' Nije moguće. Dakle, ne traži nemoguće. Taj čovjek samo je jedan od besramnika koji neizbježno postoje na svijetu. Istu misao imaj spremnu za buntovnika, izdajicu i sve druge zlotvore. Spoznaja da takav soj ljudi neophodno mora postojati odmah će te učiniti blažim prema njima kao pojedincima." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Стига само да се съсредоточиш в живота, който живееш, тоест в настоящето, ти ще можеш да изживееш оставащото до смъртта време без смут, в добро разположение на духа и настроен доброжелателно към своето божество." -Marcus Aurelius 
"not to busy myself about vain things, and not easily" -Marcus Aurelius 
"36. Don’t let your imagination be crushed by life as a whole. Don’t try to picture everything bad that could possibly happen. Stick with the situation at hand, and ask, "Why is this so unbearable? Why can’t I endure it?” You’ll be embarrassed to answer. Then remind yourself that past and future have no power over you. Only the present—and even that can be minimized. Just mark off its limits. And if your mind tries to claim that it can’t hold out against that … well, then, heap shame upon it." -Marcus Aurelius 
"The person who loves reputation supposes that his own good depends on the activities of others; the lover of pleasure finds his own good in being affected by his emotions. But the person who has Intelligence understands the good to be in his own actions." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Some people, when they do someone a favor, are always looking for a chance to call it in. And some aren’t, but they’re still aware of it—still regard it as a debt. But others don’t even do that. They’re like a vine that produces grapes without looking for anything in return. A horse at the end of the race … A dog when the hunt is over … A bee with its honey stored … And a human being after helping others. They don’t make a fuss about it. They just go on to something else, as the vine looks forward to bearing fruit again in season. We should be like that. Acting almost unconsciously." -Marcus Aurelius 
"HE WHO ACTS UNJUSTLY ACTS IMPIOUSLY." -Marcus Aurelius 
"The mind adapts and converts to its own purposes the obstacle to our acting. The impediment to action advances action. What stands in the way becomes the way" -Marcus Aurelius 
"conforming of the life to nature (δμολογουμενως τπ ϕυσει ζπν) was the Stoic idea of Virtue." -Marcus Aurelius 
"He who lives in harmony with himself lives in harmony with the universe." -Marcus Aurelius 
"time is fixed for thee, which if thou dost not use for clearing away the clouds from thy mind, it will go and thou wilt go, and it will never return. Every" -Marcus Aurelius 
"How unsound and insincere is he who says, I have determined to deal with thee in a fair way. What art thou doing man? There is no occasion to give this notice. It will soon show itself by acts. The voice ought to be plainly written on the forehead. Such as a man's character is, he immediately shows it in the eyes, just as he who is beloved forthwith reads everything in the eyes of lovers. The man who is honest and good ought to be exactly like a man who smells strong, so that the bystander as soon as he comes near him must smell whether he choose or not. But the affectation [artificial behavior] of simplicity is like a crooked stick. Nothing is more disgraceful than a wolfish friendship. Avoid this most of all. The good and simple and benevolent show all these things in the eyes, and there is no mistaking." -Marcus Aurelius 
"You have the power within you to endure anything, for your mere opinion can render it tolerable, perhaps even acceptable, by regarding it as an opportunity for enlightenment or a matter of duty." -Marcus Aurelius 
"that meekness is a thing unconquerable, if it be true and natural, and not affected or hypocritical. For how shall even the most fierce and malicious that thou shalt conceive, be able to hold on against thee, if thou shalt still continue meek and loving unto him; and that even at that time, when he is about to do thee wrong, thou shalt be well disposed, and in good temper, with all meekness to teach him, and to instruct him better?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Start praying like this and you’ll see. Not "some way to sleep with her”—but a way to stop wanting to. Not "some way to get rid of him”—but a way to stop trying. Not "some way to save my child”—but a way to lose your fear. Redirect your prayers like that, and watch what happens." -Marcus Aurelius 
"What makes for a worthy goal? Not to chase things that are popularly considered good, like pleasures and fame, but to live according to your nature, following reason and benefitting society." -Marcus Aurelius 
"say to thyself, This day I shalt have to do with an idle curious man, with an unthankful man, a railer, a crafty, false, or an envious man; an unsociable uncharitable man. All these ill qualities have happened unto them, through ignorance of that which is truly good and truly bad. But I that understand the nature of that which is good, that it only is to be desired, and of that which is bad, that it only is truly odious and shameful: who know moreover, that this transgressor, whosoever he be, is my kinsman, not by the same blood and seed, but by participation of the same reason, and of the same divine particle; How can I either be hurt by any of those, since it is not in their power to make me incur anything that is truly reproachful? or" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Turn your attention within, for the fountain of all that is good lies within, and it is always ready to pour forth, if you continually delve in." -Marcus Aurelius 
"I will not allow things outside my mind to affect my mind. I will not let external events shake and shatter my inner peace. I will not waste my energy on things outside my control" -Marcus Aurelius 
"He blind, who cannot see with the eyes of his understanding." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Basta con poner tu atención y deseo en ser bueno contigo mismo en cualquier cosa que hagas. Recuerda" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Give yourself a gift: the present moment. People out for posthumous fame forget that the Generations To Come will be the same annoying people they know now. And just as mortal. What does it matter to you if they say x about you, or think y?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Aprendí de Alejandro el gramático el no censurar; no zaherir a quienes se les fue un barbarismo, un solecismo o cualquier viciosa pronunciación; sino anunciar con maña aquella única palabra que convenía proferir, bajo la forma de una respuesta, de una confirmación o de una deliberación sobre el fondo mismo, no sobre la forma, o por otro medio apropiado de hábil sugerencia." -Marcus Aurelius 
"How many of them who came into the world at the same time when I did, are already gone out of it? LII." -Marcus Aurelius 
"De Alejandro el platónico, el no repetir a menudo y sin necesidad, sea de viva voz, sea por escrito, que estoy muy ocupado; y no rechazar así, sistemáticamente, los deberes que las relaciones sociales imponen, pretextando un agobio de quehaceres." -Marcus Aurelius 
"If now you choose what is for your spiritual advantage, hold it fast; if what is for your bodily advantage, admit that it is so chosen, and keep your choice with all modesty." -Marcus Aurelius 
"U svojim napadajima bijesa neka ti je ova misao pri ruci, jer je blagi spokoj daleko ljudskiji i stoga više muževan. Blagi posjeduju snagu, čvrstoću i hrabrost- ne oni uvrijeđeni i plačljivi. Što je čvršći nadzor nad emocijama, to si bliže moći. Gnjev je znak slabosti, jednako kao i patnja. Oboje su ranjeni, oboje su se predali." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Now to conclude; upon all occasion of sorrow remember henceforth to make use of this dogma, that whatsoever it is that hath happened unto thee, is in very deed no such thing of itself, as a misfortune; but that to bear it generously, is certainly great happiness." -Marcus Aurelius 
"That in this, there is strength and nerves, or vigour and fortitude: whereof anger and indignation is altogether void." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Excava dentro. Dentro está la fuente del bien que puede siempre borbotar de nuevo mientras excaves." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Remember how long you have been putting off things, and how often you have received an opportunity from the gods, and yet not use it. You must now at last perceive that you are part of the universe, and that the universe's existence is an efflux, and that a limit of time is fixed for you, which if you do not use for clearing away the clouds from your mind, it will go and you will go, and it will never return.   Every" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Our task is this: to play our role to the best of our ability, then depart in contentment and gratitude, praying only that that the Playwright is pleased with our performance. Have you read the first book in this series?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Auf die Dauer der Zeit nimmt die Seele die Farbe der Gedanken an." -Marcus Aurelius 
"And as grief doth proceed from weakness, so doth anger. For both, both he that is angry and that grieveth, have received a wound, and cowardly have as it were yielded themselves unto their affections." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Vanity is the greatest seducer of reason: when you are most convinced your work is important, that is when you are most under its spell." -Marcus Aurelius 
"El arte de vivir es más parecido al de la lucha que al de la danza en la medida que, ante lo que le cae a uno de improviso, hay que mantenerse preparado y sin caerse." -Marcus Aurelius 
"concupiscence," -Marcus Aurelius 
"Each thing has come into existence for a specific purpose, like a horse or a grapevine. Even the sun would say: "I exist for a purpose,” and also the other gods.18 What, then, is your purpose? To feel pleasure? See if the mind will allow such a thought." -Marcus Aurelius 
"thou wilt cease to be held by pains and pleasures, and to be a slave to the vessel, which is as much inferior as that which serves it is superior: for the one is intelligence and deity; the other is earth and corruption." -Marcus Aurelius 
"let it judge that nothing is either bad or good which can happen equally to the bad man and the good." -Marcus Aurelius 
"The rational commanding part, as it alone can stir up and turn itself; so it maketh both itself to be, and everything that happeneth, to appear unto itself, as it will itself." -Marcus Aurelius 
"It is high time for thee, to understand that there is somewhat in thee, better and more divine than either thy passions, or thy sensual appetites and affections. What is now the object of my mind, is it fear, or suspicion, or lust, or any such thing? To do nothing rashly without some certain end; let that be thy first care." -Marcus Aurelius 
"No reniegues, ni renuncies, ni te impacientes, si no se materializa la ejecución de cada acción según criterios rectos; por el contrario, aunque te quedes fuera de combate, vuelve a él con insistencia, conténtate si la mayor parte de tus acciones están por encima de lo humano y desea el combate al que vuelves. No" -Marcus Aurelius 
"20. In a sense, people are our proper occupation. Our job is to do them good and put up with them. But when they obstruct our proper tasks, they become irrelevant to us—like sun, wind, animals. Our actions may be impeded by them, but there can be no impeding our intentions or our dispositions. Because we can accommodate and adapt. The mind adapts and converts to its own purposes the obstacle to our acting. The impediment to action advances action. What stands in the way becomes the way." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Act, speak, and think like a man ready to depart this life in the next breath. If there are gods, you have no reason to fear your flight from the land of the living, for they will not let any harm come to you; and if there are no gods, or they are indifferent to the affairs of men, why wish to go on living in a world without them or without their guidance and care? But in fact, there are gods, and they do care about men, and they have made it possible for men to guard themselves against what is truly evil. Were there any evil in what awaits us, they would have given us the means of avoiding it.Besides, how can a man’s life be made worse by what does not make him morally worse? Nature cannot possibly have overlooked such an obvious contradiction out of ignorance, or having been aware of it, failed to protect us from it or to resolve it. Nor can nature have erred so egregiously, through want of power or skill, in allowing so-called goods and evils to rain down indiscriminately on good and bad men in roughly equal measure. The truth is this: since death and life, glory and shame, pain and pleasure, wealth and poverty, all of these happen to the good and bad alike, without making the one worse or the other better, none of these things can be in itself either good or bad." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Two kinds of readiness are constantly needed: (i) to do only what the logos of authority and law directs, with the good of human beings in mind; (ii) to reconsider your position, when someone can set you straight or convert you to his. But your conversion should always rest on a conviction that it’s right, or benefits others—nothing else. Not because it’s more appealing or more popular." -Marcus Aurelius 
"When a man kisses his child, said Epictetus, he should whisper to himself, To-morrow perchance thou wilt die.- But those are words of bad omen.- No word is a word of bad omen, said Epictetus, which expresses any work of nature; or if it is so, it is also a word of bad omen to speak of the ears of corn being reaped." -Marcus Aurelius 
"For with what art thou discontented? With the badness of men? Recall to thy mind this conclusion, that rational animals exist for one another, and that to endure is a part of justice, and that men do wrong involuntarily; and consider how many already, after mutual enmity, suspicion, hatred, and fighting, have been stretched dead, reduced to ashes; and be quiet at last." -Marcus Aurelius 
"that it is not men's acts which disturb us, for those acts have their foundation in men's ruling principles, but it is our own opinions which disturb us. Take away these opinions then, and resolve to dismiss thy judgement about an act as if it were something grievous, and thy anger is gone. How then shall I take away these opinions? By reflecting that no wrongful act of another brings shame on thee:" -Marcus Aurelius 
"I kakvu si ti to štetu pretrpio? Otkrit ćeš kako nitko od onih koji ti bude gnjev nije učinio ništa čime bi ti pogoršao um; samo je u tvojim mislima moguće tebi nanijeti kakvu štetu ili bol - one ne poznaju nikakva druga postojanja." -Marcus Aurelius 
"The Roman religion was in fact of the nature of a bargain: men paid certain sacrifices and rites, and the gods granted their favour, irrespective of right or wrong. In" -Marcus Aurelius 
"De beste manier om je op iemand te wreken, is niet te worden zoals hij." -Marcus Aurelius 
"The only thing that isn’t worthless: to live this life out truthfully and rightly. And be patient with those who don’t." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Now say I, if so be that this be both hurtful unto them, and yet unavoidable, would not, thinkest thou, the whole itself be in a sweet case, all the parts of it being subject to alteration, yea and by their making itself fitted for corruption, as consisting of things different and contrary" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Polity administered with regard to equal rights and equal freedom of speech, and the idea of a kingly government which respects most of all the freedom of the governed." -Marcus Aurelius 
"An angry countenance is much against nature, and it is oftentimes the proper countenance of them that are at the point of death. But were it so, that all anger and passion were so thoroughly quenched in thee, that it were altogether impossible to kindle it any more, yet herein must not thou rest satisfied, but further endeavour by good consequence of true ratiocination, perfectly to conceive and understand, that all anger and passion is against reason." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Whatsoever thou doest hereafter aspire unto, thou mayest even now enjoy and possess, if thou doest not envy thyself thine own happiness." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Acuérdate de esto y de lo siguiente, que de poquísimas cosas depende tener una vida feliz. Y" -Marcus Aurelius 
"it is only this present, a moment of time, that a man lives: all the rest either has been lived or may never" -Marcus Aurelius 
"If any god told thee that thou shalt die to-morrow, or certainly on the day after to-morrow, thou wouldst not care much whether it was on the third day or on the morrow, unless thou wast in the highest degree mean-spirited- for how small is the difference?- So think it no great thing to die after as many years as thou canst name rather than to-morrow." -Marcus Aurelius 
"If anybody shall reprove me, and shall make it apparent unto me, that in any either opinion or action of mine I do err, I will most gladly retract. For it is the truth that I seek after, by which I am sure that never any man was hurt; and as sure, that he is hurt that continueth in any error, or ignorance whatsoever." -Marcus Aurelius 
"To holiness, in accepting willingly whatsoever is sent by the Divine Providence," -Marcus Aurelius 
"no renuncies a ser libre, decente, comunitario, dócil ante dios." -Marcus Aurelius 
"it is only this present, a moment of time, that a man lives: all the rest either has been lived or may never be." -Marcus Aurelius 
"that it is not men's acts which disturb us, for those acts have their foundation in men's ruling principles, but it is our own opinions which disturb us. Take away these opinions then, and resolve to dismiss thy judgement about an act as if it were something grievous, and thy anger is gone. How then shall I take away these opinions? By reflecting that no wrongful act of another brings shame on thee: for unless that which is shameful is alone bad, thou also must of necessity do many things wrong, and become a robber and everything else. Eighth," -Marcus Aurelius 
"To righteousness, in speaking the truth freely, and without ambiguity; and in doing all things justly and discreetly." -Marcus Aurelius 
"neither have I ever seen mine own soul, and yet I respect and honour it." -Marcus Aurelius 
"What injures the hive injures the bee." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Hipócrates[207], tras sanar muchas enfermedades, enfermó él y murió. Los" -Marcus Aurelius 
"La perfección del carácter supone que cada día transcurra como el último, sin palpitos, sin cabezadas, sin actuaciones teatrales." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Which thou shalt do; if thou shalt go about every action as thy last action, free from all vanity, all passionate and wilful aberration from reason, and from all hypocrisy, and self-love, and dislike of those things, which by the fates or appointment of God have happened unto thee. Thou" -Marcus Aurelius 
"they" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Occupy thyself with few things, says the philosopher, if thou wouldst be tranquil.-" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Everything material soon disappears in the substance of the whole; and everything formal (causal) is very soon taken back into the universal reason; and the memory of everything is very soon overwhelmed in time." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Apenas amanezca, hazte en tu interior esta cuenta: hoy tropezaré con algún entremetido, con algún ingrato, con algún insolente, con un doloso, un envidioso, un egoísta. Todos estos vicios les sobrevinieron por ignorancia del bien y del mal. Pero yo, habiendo observado que la naturaleza del bien es lo bello, y que la del mal es lo torpe, y que la condición del pecador mismo es tal que no deja de ser mi pariente, participante, no de mi misma sangre o prosapia, pero sí de una misma inteligencia y de una partícula de la divinidad, no puedo recibir afrenta de ninguno de ellos, porque ninguno podría mancharme con su infamia. No puedo tampoco enojarme contra mi pariente ni aborrecerle, que hemos sido creados para ayudarnos mutuamente, como lo hacen los pies, las manos, los párpados, los dos órdenes de dientes, el superior y el inferior. Obrar, pues, como adversarios los unos de los otros es ir contra la naturaleza: y es tratar a alguien de adversario el hecho de indignarse o apartarse de él." -Marcus Aurelius 
"for let that which suffers, look to itself." -Marcus Aurelius 
"To accept it without arrogance, to let it go withindifference." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Te embarcaste, navegaste, arribaste. Desembarca. Si es a otra vida, nada está vacío de dioses, tampoco allí. Si es en la insensibilidad[212], dejarás de soportar sufrimientos y placeres, dejarás de ser esclavo para un recipiente tan inferior como superior es la parte que manda comparada con la que sirve, porque mandan la inteligencia y el espíritu divino mientras que son sirvientes la tierra y los despojos sanguinolentos." -Marcus Aurelius 
"So discard all else and secure these few things only. remind yourself too that each of us lives only in the present moment, a mere fragment of time; the rest is life past or uncertain future. Sure, life is a small thing, and small the cranny of the earth in which we live it; small too even the longest fame thereafter, which is itself subject to a succession of little men who will quickly die, and have no knowledge event of themselves, let alone of those long dead." -Marcus Aurelius 
"All those people who came into the world with me and have already left it." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Nothing but what you get from first impressions. That someone has insulted you, for instance. That—but not that it’s done you any harm. The fact that my son is sick—that I can see. But "that he might die of it,” no. Stick with first impressions. Don’t extrapolate. And nothing can happen to you." -Marcus Aurelius 
"to say all in a word, everything which belongs to the body is a stream, and what belongs to the soul is a dream and vapour, and life is a warfare and a stranger’s sojourn, and after-fame is oblivion." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Há fulanos que quando fazem algum favor a alguém estão logo prontos para lançar no livro de contas o agradecimento devido." -Marcus Aurelius 
"10. Remorse is annoyance at yourself for having passed up something that’s to your benefit. But if it’s to your benefit it must be good—something a truly good person would be concerned about. But no truly good person would feel remorse at passing up pleasure. So it cannot be to your benefit, or good." -Marcus Aurelius 
"obsequious courting of the mob" -Marcus Aurelius 
"A straightforward, honest person should be like someone who stinks: when you’re in the same room with him, you know it. But false straightforwardness is like a knife in the back. False friendship is the worst. Avoid it at all costs. If you’re honest and straightforward and mean well, it should show in your eyes. It should be unmistakable." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Always bear this in mind; and another thing too, that very little indeed is necessary for living a happy life." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Wipe off all opinion stay the force and violence of unreasonable lusts and affections: circumscribe the present time examine whatsoever it be that is happened, either to thyself or to another: divide all present objects, either in that which is formal or material think of the last hour. That which thy neighbour hath committed, where the guilt of it lieth, there let it rest. Examine in order whatsoever is spoken. Let thy mind penetrate both into the effects, and into the causes. Rejoice thyself with true simplicity, and modesty; and that all middle things between virtue and vice are indifferent unto thee." -Marcus Aurelius 
"no man loses any other life than this which he now lives, nor lives any other than this which he now loses. The longest and shortest are thus brought to the same. For the present is the same to all, though that which perishes is not the same: and so that which is lost appears to be a mere moment. For a man cannot lose either the past or the future: for what a man has not, how can any one take this from him? These two things then thou must bear in mind: the one, that all things from eternity are of like forms and come round in a circle, and that it makes no difference whether a man shall see the same things during a hundred years or two hundred, or an infinite time; and the second, that the longest liver and he who will die soonest lose just the same. For the present is the only thing of which a man can be deprived, if it is true that this is the only thing which he has, and that a man cannot lose a thing if he has it not." -Marcus Aurelius 
"47. Suppose that a god announced that you were going to die tomorrow "or the day after.” Unless you were a complete coward you wouldn’t kick up a fuss about which day it was—what difference could it make? Now recognize that the difference between years from now and tomorrow is just as small." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Either teach them better if it be in thy power; or if it be not, remember that for this use, to bear with them patiently, was mildness and goodness granted unto thee." -Marcus Aurelius 
"The highest good of man is consciously to work with God for the common good, and this is the sense in which the Stoic tried to live in accord with nature. In the individual it is virtue alone which enables him to do this; as Providence rules the universe, so virtue in the soul must rule" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Que la divinidad que está en ti sea guía de un ser varonil, respetable, social, romano, de un jefe que se coloca en su puesto como alguien que, liberado, esperara el toque de retreta para escapar de la vida, sin necesidad de un juramento ni de ningún hombre como testigo[213]. Por dentro, radiante[214] sin necesidad de servidumbre o tranquilidad exteriores. Hay que ser recto, no corregido." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Your soul takes on the colour of your thoughts." -Marcus Aurelius 
"»Hay que soportar el viento de los dioses / y sus trabajos sin queja«[357]" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Pero si se hace evidente que no existe nada mejor que el propio espíritu divino que se asienta en ti, que tiene subordinados a su control tus impulsos particulares, que analiza tus representaciones, que se ha apartado de las emociones sensoriales, como decía Sócrates[215], que se ha subordinado a los dioses y que se preocupa de los hombres, si descubres que todo lo demás es menor y de inferior valor que eso, no cedas terreno a ninguna otra cosa, porque si te postras y te inclinas una vez, no podrás ya tranquilamente rendir honor preferente a ese bien que te es particular. No" -Marcus Aurelius 
"(2) 14. Если бы даже ты рассчитывал прожить три тысячи лет и еще тридцать тысяч, все же ты должен помнить, что никто не лишается другой жизни, кроме той, которую он изживает, и никто не изживает другой жизни, кроме той, которой лишается. Поэтому самая продолжительная жизнь ничем не отличается от самой краткой. Ведь настоящее для всех равно, а следовательно равны и потери – и сводятся они всего-навсего к мгновенью. Никто не может лишиться ни минувшего, ни грядущего. Ибо кто мог бы отнять у меня то, чего я не имею? Итак, следует помнить о двух истинах. Во-первых: все от века равно самому себе, пребывая в круговороте, и потому вполне безразлично, наблюдать ли одно и то же сто лет, или двести, или же бесконечное время. Во-вторых: наиболее долговечный и умерший, лишь начав жить, теряют, в сущности, одно и то же. Настоящее – вот все, чего можно лишиться, ибо только им и обладаешь, а никто не лишается того, чем не обладает." -Marcus Aurelius 
"If anyone can give me good reason to think that I am going astray in my thoughts or my actions, I will gladly change my ways. For I seek the truth, which has never caused harm to anyone; no, the person who is harmed is one who persists in his self-deception and ignorance. 22" -Marcus Aurelius 
"The cucumber is bitter? Then throw it out. There are brambles in the path? Then go around them. That’s all you need to know. Nothing more. Don’t demand to know "why such things exist.” Anyone who understands the world will laugh at you," -Marcus Aurelius 
"It can ruin your life only if it ruins your character." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Labour not as one to whom it is appointed to be wretched, nor as one that either would be pitied, or admired; but let this be thine only care and desire; so always and in all things to prosecute or to forbear, as the law of charity, or mutual society doth require." -Marcus Aurelius 
"The highest good was the virtuous life. Virtue alone is happiness, and vice is unhappiness." -Marcus Aurelius 
"and shalt respect thy mind only, and that divine part of thine, and this shall be thine only fear," -Marcus Aurelius 
"every man is worth just so much as the things are worth about which he busies himself. In" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Not to live as if you had endless years ahead of you. Death overshadows you. While you’re alive and able—be good." -Marcus Aurelius 
"And therefore let thy chief fort and place of defence be, a mind free from passions. A stronger place, (whereunto to make his refuge, and so to become impregnable) and better fortified than this, hath no man. He that seeth not this is unlearned. He that seeth it, and betaketh not himself to this place of refuge, is unhappy." -Marcus Aurelius 
"This day I did come out of all my trouble. Nay I have cast out all my trouble; it should rather be for that which troubled thee, whatsoever it was, was not without anywhere that thou shouldest come out of it, but within in thine own opinions, from whence it must be cast out, before thou canst truly and constantly be at ease." -Marcus Aurelius 
"What then, will a little fame distract you? Look at the speed of universal oblivion, the gulf of immeasurable time both before and after, the vacuity of applause, the indiscriminate fickleness of your apparent supporters, the tiny room in which all this is confined. The whole earth is a mere point in space: what a minute cranny within this is your own habitation, and how many and what sort will sing your praises here!" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Out of several poets and comics. 'It will but little avail thee, to turn thine anger and indignation upon the things themselves that have fallen across unto thee. For as for them, they are not sensible of it," -Marcus Aurelius 
"¡Ultrájate, ultrájate a ti misma, alma mía! Y no encontrarás luego la ocasión de adquirirte el honor que a ti misma debes. Breve es la vida de todos. La tuya se te pasó casi toda, y no te aprecias cuando, por el contrario, mides tu felicidad por lo que acontece en las almas ajenas." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Ainda que pudesses viver três mil anos e outras tantas vezes dez mil, ainda assim, lembra-te de que ninguém perde outra vida além da que vive, nem vive outra além da que perde. Consequentemente, o mais longo e o mais curto confluem em um mesmo ponto. O presente, de fato, é igual para todos; o que se perde é também igual, e o que se separa é, evidentemente, um simples instante. Assim, nem o passado nem o futuro podem ser perdidos, porque, o que não se tem, como alguém nos poderia tirar? Tenha sempre presente, portanto, essas duas coisas: uma, que tudo, desde sempre, se apresenta de forma igual e descreve os mesmos círculos, e nada importa que se contemple a mesma coisa durante cem anos, duzentos ou um tempo indefinido; a outra, que o que viveu mais tempo e o que morrerá mais prematuramente, sofrem perda idêntica. Porque somente podemos ser privados do presente, posto que possuímos apenas o presente, e o que não se possui, não se pode perder. 15." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Whatever happens at all happens as it should; you will find this true, if you watch narrowly." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Everything you see will soon alter and cease to exist. Think of how many changes you've already seen. The world is change. Our life is only perception." -Marcus Aurelius 
"If therefore it be a thing external that causes thy grief, know, that it is not that properly that doth cause it, but thine own conceit and opinion concerning the thing:" -Marcus Aurelius 
"that thou mayest not die murmuring, but cheerfully, truly, and from thy heart thankful to the gods." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Ἕωϑεν προλἐγειν ἑαυτῷ συντεύξομαι περιὲργω, ἀχαρίστῳ, ὑβριστῆ, δολερῷ, βασϰάνω, ἀϰοινωνήτω." -Marcus Aurelius 
"queda como propio de la persona buena desear y conformarse con lo que le ocurre y estar entrelazado con su destino. Al" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Nothing that goes on in anyone else’s mind can harm you." -Marcus Aurelius 
"When jarred, unavoidably, by circumstance, revert at once to yourself, and don’t lose the rhythm more than you can help. You’ll have a better group of harmony if you keep on going back to it." -Marcus Aurelius 
"As virtue and wickedness consist not in passion, but in action; so neither doth the true good or evil of a reasonable charitable man consist in passion, but in operation and action." -Marcus Aurelius 
"When you are disturbed by events and lose your serenity, quickly return to yourself and don't stay upset longer than the experience lasts; for you'll have more mastery over your inner harmony by continually returning to it." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Si llevas a cabo la tarea presente de acuerdo con la razón recta, con diligencia, con fuerza, con buen ánimo y no te desvías en nada accesorio sino que vigilas que tu espíritu divino permanezca puro como si ya hubiera que devolverlo, si te agarras a eso sin esperar ni evitar nada, sino que te conformas en tu actuación presente a la naturaleza y en lo que dices y declaras a la verdad romana, tendrás una buena vida. Nadie hay que pueda impedírtelo." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Practice even at the things that you have lost all hope of achieving. For the left hand, though inefficient at everything else through lack of practice, is more powerful than the right when it comes to gripping the bridle; for it has had good practice at that." -Marcus Aurelius 
"If, at some point in your life, you should come across anything better than justice, honesty, self-control, courage—than a mind satisfied that it has succeeded in enabling you to act rationally, and satisfied to accept what’s beyond its control—if you find anything better than that, embrace it without reservations—it must be an extraordinary thing indeed—and enjoy it to the full." -Marcus Aurelius 
"whom thou dost stand in fear of what they shall judge of thee, what they themselves judge of themselves." -Marcus Aurelius 
"The perfection of moral character consists in this, in passing every day as the last, and in being neither violently excited nor torpid nor playing the hypocrite." -Marcus Aurelius 
"There is nothing more shameful than perfidious friendship." -Marcus Aurelius 
"They kill you, cut you with knives, shower you with curses. And that somehow cuts your mind off from clearness, and sanity, and self-control, and justice? A man standing by a spring of clear, sweet water and cursing it. While the fresh water keeps on bubbling up. He can shovel mud into it, or dung, and the stream will carry it away, wash itself clean, remain unstained. To have that. Not a cistern but a perpetual spring. How? By working to win your freedom. Hour by hour. Through patience, honesty, humility." -Marcus Aurelius 
"NO VAYAS ESPERANDO QUE TODO SALGA A LA PERFECCIONQue el pepino es acido, hechalo a la basura! Hay espinas sobre el camino, entonces mantente lejos! Ya es suficiente.¿Porque reflexionar la existencia de la molestia? Esa manera de pensar te hará motivo de burla del verdadedo estudiante de la Naturaleza, asi como un carpintero o un zapatero se hechara a reir si apuntas hacia el aserrin y los pedazitos de cuero sobre sus talleres. Aunque aquellos artezanos tienen basureros para los desechos., la Naturaleza no tiene necesidad de ellos" -Marcus Aurelius 
"simply and of your own free will, choose the higher and hold fast to that" -Marcus Aurelius 
"that thou be careful to prevent whatsoever is idle and impertinent: but especially, whatsoever is curious and malicious" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Whensoever by some present hard occurrences thou art constrained to be in some sort troubled and vexed, return unto thyself as soon as may be, and be not out of tune longer than thou must needs. For so shalt thou be the better able to keep thy part another time, and to maintain the harmony, if thou dost use thyself to this continually; once out, presently to have recourse unto it, and to begin again." -Marcus Aurelius 
"His mood is one of strenuous weariness; he does his duty as a good soldier, waiting for the sound of the trumpet which shall sound the retreat; he has not that cheerful confidence which led Socrates through a life no less noble, to a death which was to bring him into the company of gods he had worshipped and men whom he had revered." -Marcus Aurelius 
"our own worth is measured by what we devote our energy to.  4." -Marcus Aurelius 
"either there is a God, and then all is well; or if all things go by chance and fortune, yet mayest thou use thine own providence in those things that concern thee properly; and then art thou well." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Thou must now at last perceive of what universe thou art a part, and of what administrator of the universe thy existence is an efflux, and that a limit of time is fixed for thee, which if thou dost not use for clearing away the clouds from thy mind, it will go and thou wilt go, and it will never return." -Marcus Aurelius 
"U svakoj okolnosti ne zaboravi one koji su proživjeli isto i uzvratili zlovoljom, nevjericom, ili pritužbama. I, gdje su sada? Nigdje. Dakle, želiš li postupiti poput njih? Zašto ćud i hirove drugih ne prepustiti hirovitosti i hirovitima, a sebe dokraja usredotočiti na pitanje kako iskoristiti te okolnosti? Tada ćeš ih iskoristiti ispravno, i one će biti sirovine u tvojim rukama. Samo pazi, u svemu što činiš traži vlastito najveće dobro. Pamti to dvoje: djelovanje je važno, kontekst je nevažan." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Don’t be irritated at people’s smell or bad breath. What’s the point? With that mouth, with those armpits, they’re going to produce that odor. —But they have a brain! Can’t they figure it out? Can’t they recognize the problem? So you have a brain as well. Good for you. Then use your logic to awaken his. Show him. Make him realize it. If he’ll listen, then you’ll have solved the problem. Without anger. 28a." -Marcus Aurelius 
"And above all, that it accepts death in a cheerful spirit, as nothing but the dissolution of the elements from which each living thing is composed. If it doesn’t hurt the individual elements to change continually into one another, why are people afraid of all of them changing and separating? It’s a natural thing. And nothing natural is evil." -Marcus Aurelius 
"spend not thy time in thinking, what such aman doth, and to what end: what he saith, and what he thinks, and what he isabout, and such other things or curiosities, which make a man to rove and wanderfrom the care and observation of that part of himself, which is rational, and overruling" -Marcus Aurelius 
"that my life wanted some redress and cure." -Marcus Aurelius 
"According to this theory, man is like a dog tied to a moving wagon. If the dog refuses to run along with the wagon he will be dragged by it, yet the choice remains his: to run or be dragged. In the same way, humans are responsible for their choices and actions, even though these have been anticipated by the logos and form part of its plan." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Fericirea in viața voastră depinde de calitatea gândurilor pe care le aveți." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Three things there be in all, which thou doest consist of; thy body, thy life, and thy mind." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Čak i da živiš tri hiljade godina, ili možda deset puta toliko, uvek treba da misliš na to kako niko ne može izgubiti nikakav drugi život, do li onaj kojim je živeo i da niko nije živeo nekim drugim životom, nego onim koji je izgubio. Zato je i najduži život jednak onome koji je najkraći. Jer je sadašnji život isti za sve, onaj koji je izgubljen, nije više naš, a ono što gubimo, osećamo kao gubitak samo u jednom trenutku. Niko ne može izgubiti prošli ili budući život, jer kako neko može uzeti nekome ono što nema ? Prema tome, uvek treba misliti o dve istine : prvo, da je sve od pamtiveka isto, da se sve u određenim vremenskim razmacima ponovo vraća i da ne postoji nikakva razlika u tome da li iste stvari posmatraš tokom sto ili dvesta godina ili tokom čitave večnosti; drugo, da smrću podjednako gube i najstariji starac i najmlađi mladić. Jer svaki od njih može biti lišen samo sadašnjeg trenutka, pošto, u stvari, samo njega i ima, a ono što neko nema ne može ni izgubiti." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Here’s an exercise for your reasoning power: Each time you see something—whether an object, a person, a situation, a phenomena—define and describe it to yourself. Ask, What is it? What are the parts that compose it? Where did it come from? Where is it going? What will it decompose into? This is a sure way to elevate your mind and sharpen your discernment. As you examine everything that life shows you, you’ll learn about the universe you live in, the place and purpose of each thing in it, and how each relates to the whole." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Not to be constantly correcting people, and in particular not to jump on them whenever they make an error of usage or a grammatical mistake or mispronounce something, but just answer their question or add another example, or debate the issue itself (not their phrasing), or make some other contribution to the discussion—and insert the right expression, unobtrusively." -Marcus Aurelius 
"32. The fraction of infinity, of that vast abyss of time, allotted to each of us. Absorbed in an instant into eternity. The fraction of all substance, and all spirit. The fraction of the whole earth you crawl about on. Keep all that in mind, and don’t treat anything as important except doing what your nature demands, and accepting what Nature sends you. 33." -Marcus Aurelius 
"In the morning when you rise reluctantly, let this thought be present: I am rising to do the work of a human being. Why then am I dissatisfied if I am going to do the things for which I exist and for which I was brought into the world? Or have I been made for this, to lie in the bedclothes and keep myself warm?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"5. Afánate fijamente, a cada hora, como romano y como varón, en hacer lo que tuvieres entre manos, con precisa y sincera gravedad, con amor, libertad y justicia, procurando desasirte de cualquier otra preocupación. Lo conseguirás si ejecutas cada acción de tu vida como si fuere la última, despojada de toda irreflexión y de toda apasionada repugnancia al señorío de la razón, sin falsedad, ni egoísmo, ni displicencia ante las disposiciones del destino." -Marcus Aurelius 
"In camp before the Quadi he dates the first book of his Meditations, and shows how he could retire within himself amid the coarse clangour of arms." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Not as though thou hadst thousands of years to live. Death hangs over thee: whilst yet thou livest, whilst thou mayest, be good." -Marcus Aurelius 
"In the ring, our opponents can gouge us with their nails or butt us with their heads and leave a bruise, but we don’t denounce them for it or get upset with them or regard them from then on as violent types. We just keep an eye on them after that. Not out of hatred or suspicion. Just keeping a friendly distance. We need to do that in other areas. We need to excuse what our sparring partners do, and just keep our distance—without suspicion or hatred." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Soon you will have forgotten all things: soon all things will have forgotten you." -Marcus Aurelius 
"That no one could ever have felt patronized by him—or in a position to patronize him." -Marcus Aurelius 
"12. From Alexander the Platonist, not to say to anyone often or without necessity, nor write in a letter, I am too busy, nor in this fashion constantly plead urgent affairs as an excuse for evading the obligations entailed upon us by our relations towards those around us." -Marcus Aurelius 
"People find pleasure in different ways. I find it in keeping my mind clear. In not turning away from people or the things that happen to them. In accepting and welcoming everything I see." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Thou art a little soul bearing about a corpse," -Marcus Aurelius 
"If you do the job in a principled way, with diligence, energy and patience, if you keep yourself free of distractions, and keep the spirit inside you undamaged, as if you might have to give it back at any moment— If you can embrace this without fear or expectation—can find fulfillment in what you’re doing now, as Nature intended, and in superhuman truthfulness (every word, every utterance)—then your life will be happy. No one can prevent that." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Die Aufgabe des Lebens besteht nicht darin, auf der Seite einer Mehrzahl zu stehen, sondern dem inneren Gesetz gemäß zu leben." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Were you to live three thousand years, or even thirty thousand, remember that the sole life which a man can lose is that which he is living at the moment; and furthermore, that he can have no other life except the one he loses. This means that the longest life and the shortest amount to the same thing. For the passing minute is every man's equal possession, but what has once gone by is not ours. Our loss, therefore, is limited to that one fleeting instant, since no one can lose what is already past, nor yet what is still to come - for how can he be deprived of what he does not possess? So two things should be borne in mind. First, that all cycles of creation since the beginning of time exhibit the same recurring pattern, so that it can make no difference whether you watch the identical spectacle for a hundred years, or for two hundred, or for ever. Secondly, that when the longest- and the shortest-lived of us come to die, their loss is precisely equal. For the sole thing of which any man can be deprived is the present; since this is all he owns, and nobody can lose what is not his." -Marcus Aurelius 
"always, whether in the sharpest pains, or after the loss of a child, or in long diseases, to be still the same man;" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Either thou dost Continue in this kind of life and that is it, which so long thou hast been used unto and therefore tolerable: or thou doest retire, or leave the world, and that of thine own accord, and then thou hast thy mind: or thy life is cut off; and then mayst thou rejoice that thou hast ended thy charge. One of these must needs be. Be therefore of good comfort." -Marcus Aurelius 
"He poor, that stands in need of another, and hath not in himself all things needful for this life." -Marcus Aurelius 
"At dawn, when you have trouble getting out of bed, tell yourself: "I have to go to work—as a human being. What do I have to complain of, if I’m going to do what I was born for—the things I was brought into the world to do? Or is this what I was created for? To huddle under the blankets and stay warm?” —But it’s nicer here.… So you were born to feel "nice”? Instead of doing things and experiencing them? Don’t you see the plants, the birds, the ants and spiders and bees going about their individual tasks, putting the world in order, as best they can? And you’re not willing to do your job as a human being? Why aren’t you running to do what your nature demands?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Kad god pretrpiš bol, budi spreman nositi se s mišlju kako bol nije moralno zlo i ne šteti tvojoj vladajućoj inteligenciji - bol ne može nanijeti štetu ni njezinoj razumskoj, kao ni društvenoj prirodi. Neka ti pomogne Epikurov savjet: ''Bol nije neizdrživa ni beskrajna, sve dok pamtiš njezine granice i ne pretjeruješ s maštarijama.'' Pamti da je mnogo toga nama neugodnoga samo nepoznata analogija boli- mamurluk, na primjer, velika vrućina, gubitak teka. Pa kad se zatekneš da se žališ na išta od toga, reci sebi: Predaješ se boli." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Things have no hold on the soul. They have no access to it, cannot move or direct it. It is moved and directed by itself alone. It takes the things before it and interprets them as it sees fit." -Marcus Aurelius 
"To live with the gods.” And to do that is to show them that your soul accepts what it is given and does what the spirit requires—the spirit God gave each of us to lead and guide us, a fragment of himself. Which is our mind, our logos." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Fear of death is fear of what we may experience. Nothing at all, or something quite new. But if we experience nothing, we can experience nothing bad. And if our experience changes, then our existence will change with it—change, but not cease." -Marcus Aurelius 
"that the death of earth, is water, and the death of water, is air; and the death of air, is fire; and so on the contrary." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Look inward. Don’t let the true nature or value of anything elude you." -Marcus Aurelius 
"What is it that thou dost stay for? an extinction, or a translation; either of them with a propitious and contented mind. But still that time come, what will content thee? what else, but to worship and praise the Gods; and to do good unto men. To bear with them, and to forbear to do them any wrong. And for all external things belonging either to this thy wretched body, or life, to remember that they are neither thine, nor in thy power." -Marcus Aurelius 
"for a man to be proud and high conceited, that he is not proud and high conceited, is of all kind of pride and presumption, the most intolerable." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Ons leven is slechts wat onze gedachten ervan maken." -Marcus Aurelius 
"XXV. Is it not a cruel thing to forbid men to affect those things, which they conceive to agree best with their own natures, and to tend most to their own proper good and behoof? But thou after a sort deniest them this liberty, as often as thou art angry with them for their sins. For surely they are led unto those sins whatsoever they be, as to their proper good and commodity. But it is not so (thou wilt object perchance). Thou therefore teach them better, and make it appear unto them: but be not thou angry with them." -Marcus Aurelius 
"What’s left for us to prize? I think it’s this: to do (and not do) what we were designed for. That’s the goal of all trades, all arts, and what each of them aims at: that the thing they create should do what it was designed to do. The nurseryman who cares for the vines, the horse trainer, the dog breeder—this is what they aim at. And teaching and education—what else are they trying to accomplish? So that’s what we should prize. Hold on to that, and you won’t be tempted to aim at anything else. And if you can’t stop prizing a lot of other things? Then you’ll never be free—free, independent, imperturbable. Because you’ll always be envious and jealous, afraid that people might come and take it all away from you. Plotting against those who have them—those things you prize. People who need those things are bound to be a mess—and bound to take out their frustrations on the gods. Whereas to respect your own mind—to prize it—will leave you satisfied with your own self, well integrated into your community and in tune with the gods as well—embracing what they allot you, and what they ordain." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Yes. This will be a drama in three acts, the length fixed by the power that directed your creation, and now directs your dissolution. Neither was yours to determine. So make your exit with grace—the same grace shown to you." -Marcus Aurelius 
"In the morning, when you rise unwillingly, let this thought be present: I am rising to the work of a human being. Why then am I dissatisfied if I am going to do the things for which I exist and for which I was brought into the world? Or have I been made for this, to lie under the blankets and keep myself warm? But this is more pleasant. Do you exist then to take your pleasure, and not and not at all for action and exertion? Do you not see the little plants, the little birds, the ants, the spiders, the bees working together to put in order their separate parts of the universe? And are you unwilling to do the work of a human being, and do you not make haste to do that which is according to your nature? But it is necessary to take rest also. It is necessary: nature, however has fixed bounds to this, too: she has fixed bounds both to eating and drinking, and yet in your you go beyond these bounds, beyond what is sufficient; yet in your acts it is not so, but you stop short of what you can do. So you do not love yourself, for if you did, you would love your nature and her will. but those who love their several arts exhaust themselves in working at them unwashed and without food; but you value your own nature less than the engraver values the engraving art, or the dancer the dancing art, or the lover of money values his money, or the vainglorious man his little glory. And such men, when they have ardent passion for a thing, choose neither to eat nor to sleep rather than to perfect things that they care for." -Marcus Aurelius 
"All is ephemeral, both that which remembers and that which is remembered." -Marcus Aurelius 
"53. Practice really hearing what people say. Do your best to get inside their minds." -Marcus Aurelius 
"The next, that all these things, which now thou seest, shall within a very little while be changed, and be no more: and ever call to mind, how many changes and alterations in the world thou thyself hast already been an eyewitness of in thy time. This world is mere change, and this life, opinion." -Marcus Aurelius 
"El tiempo de la vida humana es un punto: la sustancia, fluente; la sensación, oscurecida; toda la constitución del cuerpo, corruptible; en resumen, todas las cosas propias del cuerpo son a manera de un río; las del alma, sueño y vaho; la vida, una lucha, un destierro; la fama de la posteridad, olvido. Qué hay, pues, que nos pueda llevar a salvamento? Una sola y única cosa: la filosofía. Y ésta consiste en conservar el dios interior sin ultraje ni daño, para que triunfe de placeres y de dolores, para que no obre al acaso, y se mantenga lejos de toda falsedad y disimulo, al margen de que se haga o no se haga esto o aquello; además, para que acepte la parte que le tocare en los varios sucesos accidentales e integrales de su parte, como procedentes de aquel origen de quien procede él mismo; y, en particular, para que aguarde la muerte en actitud plácida, no viendo en ella otra cosa más que la disolución de los elementos de que consta todo ser viviente. Si no hay nada temible para los mismos elementos en esta transformación incesante de uno en otro, por qué temer la transformación y disolución de todas las otras cosas? Esto es conforme con la naturaleza: y nada es malo cuanto de ella se acomoda." -Marcus Aurelius 
"To welcome with affection what is sent by fate." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Let the fulfilling and accomplishment of those things which the common nature hath determined, be unto thee as thy health. Accept then, and be pleased with whatsoever doth happen, though otherwise harsh and un-pleasing, as tending to that end, to the health and welfare of the universe, and to Jove’s happiness and prosperity." -Marcus Aurelius 
"3. People try to get away from it all—to the country, to the beach, to the mountains. You always wish that you could too. Which is idiotic: you can get away from it anytime you like. By going within." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Am I unhappy because of what happened to me? No. I remain happy because, regardless of circumstances, I am free—neither crushed by the present nor afraid of the future. Storms befall everyone; but not everyone can stand firm against them." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Ведь тот, кто отдал предпочтение своему духу, гению, служению добродетели, не надевает трагической маски, не издает стенаний, не нуждается ни в уединении, ни в многолюдстве. Он будет жить – и это самое главное – ничего не преследуя и ничего не избегая." -Marcus Aurelius 
"For it may happen if thou dost not take heed. Keep thyself therefore, truly simple, good, sincere, grave, free from all ostentation, a lover of that which is just, religious, kind, tender-hearted, strong and vigorous to undergo anything that becomes thee." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Aunque sean dos, el camino es uno sólo." -Marcus Aurelius 
"There is one universe out of all things, one god pervading all things, one substance, one law, one common reason in all intelligent beings, and one truth." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Thou must be like a promontory of the sea, against which though the waves beatcontinually, yet it both itself stands, and about it are those swelling waves stilled andquieted." -Marcus Aurelius 
"God sees all our directing minds stripped of their material vessels, their husks and their dross. His contact is only between his own intelligence and what has flowed from him into these channels of ours. If you train yourself to do the same, you will be rid of what so much distracts you. Hardly likely, is it, that one blind to the enveloping flesh will spend his time eyeing clothes, houses, reputation, or any other such trappings and stage scenery?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Desechado, pues, de ti todo otro cuidado, pon sólo la atención en unos pocos preceptos. Y acuérdate que cada uno no vive más que el presente, indeciblemente pequeño. El resto de la vida, o ya se acabó de vivir, o es incierto. Brevísimo es, pues, el instante que cada uno vive, brevísimo el espacio donde habita, brevísima la fama de la posteridad. Y aun ésta no existe más que por una sucesión de pigmeos que morirán muy en breve, que no se conocen a sí mismos, y todavía menos al hombre que murió tanto antes." -Marcus Aurelius 
"At dawn, when you have trouble getting out of bed, tell yourself: ‘I have to go to work—as a human being. What do I have to complain of, if I’m going to do what I was born for—the things I was brought into the world to do? Or is this what I was created for? To huddle under the blankets and stay warm?‘—But it’s nicer here…’So you were born to feel ‘nice’? Instead of doings things and experiencing them? Don’t you see the plants, the birds, the ants and spiders and bees going about their individual tasks, putting the world in order, as best they can? And you’re not willing to do your job as a human being? Why aren’t you running to do what your nature demands?‘—But we have to sleep sometime…’Agreed. But nature set a limit on that—as it did on eating and drinking. And you’re over the limit. You’ve had more than enough of that. But not of working. There you’re still below your quota. You don’t love yourself enough. Or you’d love your nature too, and what it demands of you. People who love what they do wear themselves down doing it, they even forget to wash or eat.Do you have less respect for your own nature than the engraver does for engraving, the dancer for dance, the miser for money or the social climber for status? When they’re really possessed by what they do, they’d rather stop eating and sleeping than give up practicing their arts." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Worship the Gods, procure the welfare of men, this life is short. Charitable actions, and a holy disposition, is the only fruit of this earthly life." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Live a good life. If there are gods and they are just, then they will not care how devout you have been, but will welcome you based on the virtues you have lived by. If there are gods, but unjust, then you should not want to worship them. If there are no gods, then you will be gone, but will have lived a noble life that will live on in the memories of your loved ones" -Marcus Aurelius 
"animals" -Marcus Aurelius 
"no ser tramposo, tener nobleza, aguantar los trabajos, despreciar los placeres, no quejarse de tu destino, necesitar poco, la buena disposición, la liberalidad, la sencillez, no ser charlatán, la grandeza. ¿" -Marcus Aurelius 
"All things fade and quickly turn to myth: quickly too utter oblivion drowns them. And I am talking of those who shone with some wonderful brilliance: the rest, once they have breathed their last, are immediately ‘beyond sigh, beyond knowledge’. But what in any case is everlasting memory? Utter emptiness." -Marcus Aurelius 
"To watch the courses of the stars as if you revolved with them. To keep constantly in mind how the elements alter into one another. Thoughts like this wash off the mud of life below." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Alexander the Macedonian and his groom by death were brought to the same state; for either they were received among the same seminal principles of the universe, or they were alike dispersed among the atoms. Consider" -Marcus Aurelius 
"3. Pointless bustling of processions, opera arias, herds of sheep and cattle, military exercises. A bone flung to pet poodles, a little food in the fish tank. The miserable servitude of ants, scampering of frightened mice, puppets jerked on strings. Surrounded as we are by all of this, we need to practice acceptance. Without disdain. But remembering that our own worth is measured by what we devote our energy to." -Marcus Aurelius 
"that their happiness doth consist in a disposition to, and in the practice of righteousness;" -Marcus Aurelius 
"that no one does the wrong thing deliberately;" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Short is the little which remains to thee in life. Live as on a mountain." -Marcus Aurelius 
"En tu mano está reavivar continuamente su llama. Puedo" -Marcus Aurelius 
"All that happens is as habitual and familiar as roses in spring and fruit in the summer. True too of disease, death, defamation, and conspiracy—and all that delights or gives pain to fools." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Think constantly how many doctors have died, after knitting their brows over their own patients how many astrologers, after predicting the deaths of others, as if death were something important; how many philosophers, after endless deliberation on death or immortality; how many heroes, after the many others they killed; how many tyrants, after using their power over men’s lives with monstrous insolence, as if they themselves were immortal. Think too how many whole cities have died – Helice, Pompeii, Herculaneum, innumerable others. Go over now all those you have known yourself, one after the other: one man follows a friend’s funeral and is then laid out himself, then another follows him – and all in a brief space of time. The conclusion of this? You should always look on human life as short and cheap. Yesterday sperm: tomorrow a mummy or ashes.So one should pass through this tiny fragment of time in tune with nature, and leave it gladly, as an olive might fall when ripe, blessing the earth which bore it and grateful to the tree which gave it growth." -Marcus Aurelius 
"One is that things do not touch the soul, for they are external and remain immovable; but our perturbations come only from the opinion which is within. The other is that all these things, which thou seest, change immediately and will no longer be; and constantly bear in mind how many of these changes thou hast already witnessed. The universe is transformation; life is opinion." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Everything harmonizes with me which is harmonious to thee, O Universe. Nothing for me is too early nor too late, which is in due time for thee. Everything is fruit to me which thy season brings, O Nature: from thee are all things, in thee are all things, to thee all things return." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Or is it your reputation that’s bothering you? But look at how soon we’re all forgotten. The abyss of endless time that swallows it all. The emptiness of all those applauding hands. The people who praise us—how capricious they are, how arbitrary. And the tiny region in which it all takes place. The whole earth a point in space—and most of it uninhabited" -Marcus Aurelius 
"existence" -Marcus Aurelius 
"If you can cut free of impressions that cling to the mind, free of the future and the past—can make yourself, as Empedocles says, "a sphere rejoicing in its perfect stillness,” and concentrate on living what can be lived (which means the present) … then you can spend the time you have left in tranquillity. And in kindness. And at peace with the spirit within you." -Marcus Aurelius 
"It never ceases to amaze me: we all love ourselves more than other people, but care more about their opinions than our own." -Marcus Aurelius 
"No matter what anyone says or does, my task is to be good. Like gold or emerald or purple repeating to itself, "No matter what anyone says or does, my task is to be emerald, my color undiminished." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Let death surprise rue when it will, and where it will, I may be a happy man, nevertheless. For he is a happy man, who in his lifetime dealeth unto himself a happy lot and portion. A happy lot and portion is, good inclinations of the soul, good desires, good actions." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Think of the countless changes in which you yourself have bad a part. The whole universe is change, and life is but what you deem it." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Ne snatri o posjedovanju onog što nemaš, radije razmišljaju o vrhunskim blagoslovima u onome što posjeduješ i stoga podsjećaj sebe koliko bi ti nedostajali da nisu ondje. No istovremeno, moraš paziti da te vlastito uživanje u njima ne navikne na ovisnost, i tako izbjeći nemir ako ih ponekad nema." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Waste not what remains of life in consideration about others, when it makes not for the common good. Be sure you are neglecting other work if you busy yourself with what such a one is doing and why, with what he is saying, thinking, or scheming. All such things do but divert you from the steadfast guardianship of your own soul. It behoves you, then, in every train of thought to shun all that is aimless or useless, and, above all, everything officious or malignant. Accustom yourself so, and only so, to think, that, if any one were suddenly to ask you, Of what are you thinking-now? you could answer frankly and at once, Of so and so. Then it will plainly appear that you are all simplicity and kindliness, as befits a social being who takes little thought for enjoyment or any phantom pleasure; who spurns contentiousness, envy, or suspicion; or any passion the harbouring of which one would blush to own. For such a man, who has finally determined to be henceforth among the best, is, as it were, a priest and minister of the Gods, using the spirit within him, which preserves a man unspotted from pleasure, unwounded by any pain, inaccessible to all insult, innocent of all evil; a champion in the noblest of all contests—the contest for victory over every passion. He is penetrated with justice; he welcomes with all his heart whatever befalls, or is appointed by Providence. He troubles not often, or ever without pressing public need, to consider what another may say, or do, or design. Solely intent upon his own conduct, ever mindful of his own concurrent part in the destiny of the Universe, he orders his conduct well, persuaded that his part is good. For the lot appointed to every man is part of the law of all things as well as a law for him. He forgets not that all rational beings are akin, and that the love of all mankind is part of the nature of man; also that we must not think as all men think, but only as those who live a life accordant with nature. As for those who live otherwise, he remembers always how they act at home and abroad, by night and by day, and how and with whom they are found in company. And so he cannot esteem the praise of such, for they enjoy not their own approbation." -Marcus Aurelius 
"If anyone can show me, and prove to me, that I am wrong in thought or deed, I will gladly change. I think the truth , which never yet hurt anybody. It is only persistence and self-delusion and ignorance which does harm." -Marcus Aurelius 
"They seek for themselves private retiring places, as country villages, the sea-shore, mountains; yea thou thyself art wont to long much after such places. But all this thou must know proceeds from simplicity in the highest degree. At what time soever thou wilt, it is in thy power to retire into thyself, and to be at rest, and free from all businesses." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Look in, let not either the proper quality, or the true worth of anything pass thee, before thou hast fully apprehended it." -Marcus Aurelius 
"If a thing is in thy own power, why dost thou do it? But if it is in the power of another, whom dost thou blame? The atoms (chance) or the gods? Both are foolish. Thou must blame nobody. For if thou canst, correct that which is the cause; but if thou canst not do this, correct at least the thing itself; but if thou canst not do even this, of what use is it to thee to find fault? For nothing should be done without a purpose." -Marcus Aurelius 
"I have often wondered how it is that every man loves himself more than all the rest of men, but yet sets less value on his own opinion of himself than on the opinion of others. If then a god or a wise teacher should present himself to a man and bid him to think of nothing and to design nothing which he would not express as soon as he conceived it, he could not endure it even for a single day. So much more respect have we to what our neighbours shall think of us than to what we shall think of ourselves." -Marcus Aurelius 
"When people injure you, ask yourself what good or harm they thought would come of it. If you understand that, you’ll feel sympathy rather than outrage or anger." -Marcus Aurelius 
"things you think about determine the quality of your mind. Your soul takes on the color of your thoughts." -Marcus Aurelius 
"whether half frozen or well warm; whether only slumbering, or after a full sleep; whether discommended or commended thou do thy duty: or whether dying or doing somewhat else; for that also "to die,” must among the rest be reckoned as one of the duties and actions of our lives." -Marcus Aurelius 
"¡Cuántos de los agasajados con muchos himnos están ya entregados al olvido! ¡Cuántos de los que hicieron esos himnos hace tiempo que están ausentes!" -Marcus Aurelius 
"23. Nature takes substance and makes a horse. Like a sculptor with wax. And then melts it down and uses the material for a tree. Then for a person. Then for something else. Each existing only briefly. It does the container no harm to be put together, and none to be taken apart." -Marcus Aurelius 
"An unphilosophical but nonetheless effective help to putting death in its place is to run over the list of those who have clung long to life. What did they gain over the untimely dead?In truth, the distance we have to travel is small: and we drag it out with such labor, in such poor company, in such a feeble body. No great thing, then. Look behind you at the huge gulf of time, and another infinity ahead. In this perspective what is the difference between an infant of three days and a Nestor of three generations?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Wer nicht weiß, was die Welt ist, der weiß auch nicht, wo er lebt. Wer aber den Zweck ihres Daseins nicht kennt, der weiß weder, wer er selbst, noch was die Welt ist. Wem aber eins von diesen Stücken fehlt, der kann auch wohl seine eigene Bestimmung nicht angeben. In welchem Lichte erscheint dir nun ein Mensch, welcher um den lauten Beifall derer buhlt, die nicht wissen, wo, noch wer sie selbst sind?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"The other is that all these things, which thou seest, change immediately and will no longer be; and constantly bear in mind how many of these changes thou hast already witnessed. The universe is transformation: life is opinion." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Dig inside yourself. Inside there is a spring of goodness ready to gush at any moment if you keep digging." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Death is such as generation is, a mystery of nature; a composition out of the same elements, and a decomposition into the same;" -Marcus Aurelius 
" ‘If his mind is filled with nobility, with a grasp of all time, all existence, do you think our human life will mean much to him at all?’ " ‘How could it?’ he said. " ‘Or death be very frightening?’ " ‘Not in the least." -Marcus Aurelius 
"No te avergüences de recibir ayuda porque tienes delante realizar la tarea que te corresponde como el soldado que ataca una muralla. ¿" -Marcus Aurelius 
"17. Not to live as if you had endless years ahead of you. Death overshadows you. While you’re alive and able—be good." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Disturbance comes only from within- from our own perceptions. Everything you see will soon alter and cease to exist" -Marcus Aurelius 
"O Nature! from thee are all things, in thee all things subsist, and to thee all tend." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Можеш да премахнеш много излишни безпокойства, които зависят изцяло от твоето мнение така ще си осигуриш едно широко пространство, за да обхванеш с мисълта си цялата вселена, да си представиш без крайната вечност и да се замислиш за бързата промяна която претърпява всичко поотделно — колко кратко е времето от пораждането до разпадането и колко безмерно това преди рождението, както и онова безкрайно, което следва разпадането." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Not to wander out of the way, but upon every motion and desire, to perform that which is just: and ever to be careful to attain to the true natural apprehension of every fancy, that presents itself." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Es preciso, pues, aprovechar el tiempo, y ello no solo porque cada instante es un paso más que damos hacia la muerte, sino por el hecho de que antes de morir perdemos la capacidad de concebir las cosas y de prestarles la atención que merecen." -Marcus Aurelius 
"And here thou must remember, that thy carriage in every business must be according to the worth and due proportion of it, for so shalt thou not easily be tired out and vexed, if thou shalt not dwell upon small matters longer than is fitting." -Marcus Aurelius 
"The present is the same for everyone; its loss is thesame for everyone; and it should be clear that a brief instantis all that is lost. For you can’t lose either the past or thefuture; how could you lose what you don’t have?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"iii. that if you were suddenly lifted up and could see life and its variety from a vast height, and at the same time all the things around you, in the sky and beyond it, you’d see how pointless it is. And no matter how often you saw it, it would be the same: the same life forms, the same life span. Arrogance … about this?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Receive without conceit; release without a struggle." -Marcus Aurelius 
"It is a shame for the soul to be first to give way in this life, when thy body does not give way." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Let this be thy only joy, and thy only comfort, from one sociable kind action without intermission to pass unto another," -Marcus Aurelius 
"Whatsoever is, was made for something: as a horse, a vine. Why wonderest thou? The sun itself will say of itself, I was made for something; and so hath every god its proper function. What then were thou made for? to disport and delight thyself? See how even common sense and reason cannot brook it." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Today, I freed myself from trouble. Or rather, I wiped it out—for my trouble was caused by my opinion of things, so I changed the story I was telling myself." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Not just that every day more of our life is used up and lessand less of it is left, but this too: if we live longer, can we besure our mind will still be up to understanding the world—tothe contemplation that aims at divine and human knowledge?If our mind starts to wander, we’ll still go on breathing, goon eating, imagining things, feeling urges and so on. Butgetting the most out of ourselves, calculating where our dutylies, analyzing what we hear and see, deciding whether it’stime to call it quits—all the things you need a healthy mindfor . . . all those are gone.So we need to hurry.Not just because we move daily closer to death but alsobecause our understanding—our grasp of the world—may begone before we get there." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Do not be upset: all things follow the nature of the Whole, and in a little while you will be no one and nowhere. Concentrate on the matter in hand and see it for what it is. Remind yourself of your duty to be a good man and rehearse what man’s nature demands: then do it straight and unswerving. Always, though, in kindness, integrity, and sincerity." -Marcus Aurelius 
"To comprehend all in a few words, our life is short; we must endeavour to gain the present time with best discretion and justice. Use recreation with sobriety." -Marcus Aurelius 
"In this infinity then what is the difference between him who lives three days and him who lives three generations? Always" -Marcus Aurelius 
"To this end there must be continual self-examination. "If thou may not continually gather thyself together, namely sometimes do it, at least once a day, the morning or the evening. In the morning purpose, in the evening discuss the manner, what thou hast been this day, in word, work, and thought." -Marcus Aurelius 
"What obstacles and impediments soever she meeteth within her way, she must not violently, and by way of an impetuous onset light upon them; neither must she fall down; but she must stand, and give light unto that which doth admit of it. For as for that which doth not, it is its own fault and loss, if it bereave itself of her light." -Marcus Aurelius 
"system, let this first be established, that I am a part of the whole which is governed by nature; next, I am in a manner intimately related to the parts which are of the same kind with myself. For remembering this, inasmuch as I am a part, I shall be discontented with none of the things which are assigned to me out of the whole; for nothing is injurious to the part, if it is for the advantage of the whole. For the whole contains nothing which is not for its advantage; and all natures indeed have this common principle, but the nature of the universe has this principle besides, that it cannot be compelled even by any external cause to generate anything harmful to itself. By" -Marcus Aurelius 
"264. Such as you are your habitual thoughts, such also will be the character of your mind; for your soul is dyed through the thoughts.~" -Marcus Aurelius 
"All men are made one for another: either then teach them better, or bear with them." -Marcus Aurelius 
"XLVI. The ambitious supposeth another man's act, praise and applause, to be his own happiness; the voluptuous his own sense and feeling; but he that is wise, his own action." -Marcus Aurelius 
"I who have seen the nature of the good that it is beautiful, and of the bad that it is ugly, and the nature of him who does wrong, that it is akin to me, not only of the same blood or seed, but that it participates in the same intelligence and the same portion of the divinity," -Marcus Aurelius 
"Тебя увлекает мечта о славе? Обрати внимание на то, как быстро все предается забвению, на хаос времени, беспредельного в ту и другую сторону, на суетность похвал, изменчивость и безрассудство тех, которые, по-видимому, тебя ценят, на незначительность пространства, пределами коего слава ограничена." -Marcus Aurelius 
"In a moment the earth will cover us all. Then the earth too will change, and then further successive changes to infinity.One reflecting on these waves of change and transformation, and the speed of their flow, will hold all mortal things in contempt." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Die Menschen sind für einander geboren. Also belehre oder dulde sie!" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Constant awareness that everything is born from change. The knowledge that there is nothing nature loves more than to alter what exists and make new things like it. All that exists is the seed of what will emerge from it." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Do not act as if you had ten thousand years to live ... while you have life in you, while you still can, make yourself good." -Marcus Aurelius 
"If you seek tranquillity, do less.” Or (more accurately) do what’s essential—what the logos of a social being requires, and in the requisite way. Which brings a double satisfaction: to do less, better. Because most of what we say and do is not essential. If you can eliminate it, you’ll have more time, and more tranquillity. Ask yourself at every moment, "Is this necessary?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"If he thinks x or y about pleasure and pain (and what produces them), about fame and disgrace, about death and life, then it shouldn’t shock or surprise you when he does x or y." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Hay que reflexionar continuamente en cuántos médicos han muerto tras haber fruncido el entrecejo muchas veces por sus enfermos" -Marcus Aurelius 
"What is "eternal” fame? Emptiness. Then what should we work for? Only this: proper understanding; unselfish action; truthful speech. A resolve to accept whatever happens as necessary and familiar, flowing like water from that same source and spring." -Marcus Aurelius 
"guarding your freedom each and every hour with kindness, simplicity, and self-respect." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Look at the thousands of flocks and herds, the thousands of human ceremonies, every sort of voyage in storm or calm, the range of creation, combination, and extinction.Consider too the lives once lived by others long before you, the lives that will be lived after you, the lives lived now among foreign tribes; and how many have never even heard your name, how many will very soon forget it, how many may praise you now but quickly turn to blame.Reflect that neither memory nor fame, nor anything else at all, has any importance worth thinking of." -Marcus Aurelius 
"LII. To them that are sick of the jaundice, honey seems bitter; and to them that are bitten by a mad dog, the water terrible; and to children, a little ball seems a fine thing. And why then should I be angry? or do I think that error and false opinion is less powerful to make men transgress, than either choler, being immoderate and excessive, to cause the jaundice; or poison, to cause rage?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Alexander the Great and his mule driver both died and the same thing happened to both. They were absorbed alike into the life force of the world, or dissolved alike into atoms." -Marcus Aurelius 
"hay que ver siempre lo humano como flor de un día e inconsistente, ayer era una mucosidad, mañana será momia y cenizas. Ese" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Haga o diga alguien lo que quiera, obligado estoy a ser bueno. Como" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Will either passengers, or patients, find fault and complain, either the one if they be well carried, or the others if well cured? Do they take care for any more than this; the one, that their shipmaster may bring them safe to land, and the other, that their physician may effect their recovery?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Seek what is conformable to thy nature, and strive towards this, even if it brings no reputation." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Be not ashamed to be helped; for it is thy business to do thy duty like a soldier in the assault on a town. How then, if being lame thou canst not mount up on the battlements alone, but with the help of another it is possible?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"If thou workest at that which is before thee, following right reason seriously, vigorously, calmly, without allowing anything else to distract thee, but keeping thy divine part pure, as if thou shouldst be bound to give it back immediately; if thou holdest to this, expecting nothing, fearing nothing, but satisfied with thy present activity according to nature, and with heroic truth in every word and sound which thou utterest, thou wilt live happy." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Betimes in the morning say to thyself, This day I shalt have to do with an idle curious man, with an unthankful man, a railer, a crafty, false, or an envious man; an unsociable uncharitable man. All these ill qualities have happened unto them, through ignorance of that which is truly good and truly bad." -Marcus Aurelius 
"»Soy afortunado porque, a pesar de haberme ocurrido eso, permanezco sin pena y no me rompo por el presente ni temo el porvenir.« Porque" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Често си мисли с каква скорост преминава и изчезва всичко съществуващо и раждащо се. Материалната същност като река непрекъснато тече, действителното е в непрестанна промяна, причините - подложени на безброй преобразувания; почти нищо не е устойчиво и толкова близо е зиналата безкрайност на изтеклото и бъдното, в която всичко изчезва. Затова как да не е глупав човекът, който се надува, притеснява или оплаква при тези обстоятелства, сякаш безпокойствието му ще трае кой знае колко време." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Whatsoever any man either doth or saith, thou must be good;” "doth any man offend? It is against himself that he doth offend: why should it trouble thee?” The offender needs pity, not wrath; those who must needs be corrected, should be treated with tact and gentleness; and one must be always ready to learn better. "The best kind of revenge is, not to become like unto them." -Marcus Aurelius 
"No man can hinder thee to live as thy nature doth require. Nothing can happen unto thee, but what the common good of nature doth require." -Marcus Aurelius 
"¿Consideras, en resumen, que es desgracia del hombre lo que no es desacierto de la naturaleza humana? ¿" -Marcus Aurelius 
"In short, know this: Human lives are brief and trivial. Yesterday a blob of semen; tomorrow embalming fluid, ash." -Marcus Aurelius 
"If all the rest is common coin, then what is unique to the good man? To welcome with affection what is sent by fate. Not to stain or disturb the spirit within him with a mess of false beliefs. Instead, to preserve it faithfully, by calmly obeying God—saying nothing untrue, doing nothing unjust. And if the others don’t acknowledge it—this life lived with simplicity, humility, cheerfulness—he doesn’t resent them for it, and isn’t deterred from following the road where it leads: to the end of life. An end to be approached in purity, in serenity, in acceptance, in peaceful unity with what must be." -Marcus Aurelius 
"You can strip away many unnecessary troubles which lie wholly in your own judgement. And you will immediately make large and wide room for yourself by grasping the whole universe in your thought, contemplating the eternity of time, and reflecting on the rapid change of each thing in every part.How brief the gap from birth to dissolution, how vast the gulf of time before your birth, and an equal infinity after your dissolution." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Blicke in dein Inneres! Im Innern ist die Quelle des Guten, eine unversiebare Quelle, wenn du immer nachgräbst." -Marcus Aurelius 
"habla y actúa en todo según lo que sea más sano. Ese planteamiento te libera de golpes, de vacilación, de preocupación y afectación." -Marcus Aurelius 
"How can I either be hurt by any of those, since it is not in their power to make me incur anything that is truly reproachful?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"The motion of the mind is not as the motion of a dart. For the mind when it is wary and cautelous, and by way of diligent circumspection turneth herself many ways, may then as well be said to go straight on to the object, as when it useth no such circumspection." -Marcus Aurelius 
"neither was there any man that ever thought himself undervalued by him, or that could find in his heart, to think himself a better man than he." -Marcus Aurelius 
"A man standing by a spring of clear, sweet water and cursing it. While the fresh water keeps on bubbling up. He can shovel mud into it, or dung, and the stream will carry it away, wash itself clean, remain unstained." -Marcus Aurelius 
"But we have to sleep sometime.… Agreed. But nature set a limit on that—as it did on eating and drinking. And you’re over the limit. You’ve had more than enough of that. But not of working. There you’re still below your quota." -Marcus Aurelius 
"No malogres la parte de vida que te queda en averiguar vidas ajenas, a no ser que te propongas algún fin útil a la comunidad." -Marcus Aurelius 
"… with food and drink and magic spells Seeking some novel way to frustrate death." -Marcus Aurelius 
"To pierce and penetrate into the estate of every one's understanding that thou hast to do with: as also to make the estate of thine own open, and penetrable to any other." -Marcus Aurelius 
"say to thyself, This day I shalt have to do with an idle curious man, with an unthankful man, a railer, a crafty, false, or an envious man; an unsociable uncharitable man. All these ill qualities have happened unto them, through ignorance of that which is truly good and truly bad." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Your children are no more than ‘leaves’.‘Leaves’ too these loud voices of loyal praise, these curses from your opponents, this silent blame of mockery: mere ‘leaves’ likewise those with custody of your future fame.All these ‘come round in the season of spring’: but then the wind blows them down, and the forest ‘puts out others’ in their stead. All things are short-lived – this is their common lot – but you pursue likes and dislikes as if all was fixed for eternity.In a little while you too will close your eyes, and soon there will be others mourning the man who buries you." -Marcus Aurelius 
"la naturaleza también nos dio su medida, también nos la dio del comer y del beber, no obstante, tú sobrepasas lo que es suficiente. Pero" -Marcus Aurelius 
"keep the spirit inside you undamaged, as if you might have to give it back at any moment" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Where there shall neither roarer be, nor harlot. ' Why so? As thou dost purpose to live, when thou hast retired thyself to some such place, where neither roarer nor harlot is: so mayest thou here. And if they will not suffer thee, then mayest thou leave thy life rather than thy calling, but so as one that doth not think himself anyways wronged. Only as one would say, Here is a smoke; I will out of it. And what a great matter is this! Now till some such thing force me out, I will continue free; neither shall any man hinder me to do what I will, and my will shall ever be by the proper nature of a reasonable and sociable creature, regulated and directed." -Marcus Aurelius 
"How can I either be hurt by any of those, since it is not in their power to make me incur anything that is truly reproachful? or angry, and ill affected towards him, who by nature is so near unto me?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Certainly He who governs the Whole will make good use of you and welcome you into some part of the joint workforce: but just make sure that your part is not that of the cheap and vulgar line in the comedy, as noted by Chrysippus." -Marcus Aurelius 
"I am half naked, neither have I bread to eat, and yet I depart not from reason, saith one." -Marcus Aurelius 
"By remembering, then, that I am a part of such a whole, I shall be content with everything that happens. And inasmuch as I am in a manner intimately related to the parts which are of the same kind with myself, I shall do nothing unsocial, but I shall rather direct myself to the things which are of the same kind with myself, and I shall turn an my efforts to the common interest, and divert them from the contrary. Now, if these things are done so, life must flow on happily, just as thou mayest observe that the life of a citizen is happy, who continues a course of action which is advantageous to his fellow-citizens, and is content with whatever the state may assign to him. The" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Устрани убеждение, устранится и жалоба на вред. Устрани жалобу на вред, устранится и самый вред." -Marcus Aurelius 
"He also that pursues after pleasures, as that which is truly good and flies from pains, as that which is truly evil: is impious." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Time is like a river made up of the events which hap­pen, and a vi­ol­ent stream; for as soon as a thing has been seen, it is car­ried away, and an­other comes in its place, and this will be car­ried away too." -Marcus Aurelius 
"What a tiny part of the boundless abyss of time has been allotted to each of us – and this is soon vanished in eternity; what a tiny part of the universal substance and the universal soul; how tiny in the whole earth the mere clod on which you creep.Reflecting on all this, this nothing important other than active pursuit where your own nature leads and passive acceptance of what universal nature brings." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Niemand wird müde, seinen Nutzen zu suchen; Nutzen aber gewährt eine naturgemäße Tätigkeit. Werde also nicht müde, deinen Nutzen zu suchen, indem du anderen Nutzen gewährst!" -Marcus Aurelius 
"That I had the kind of brother I did. One whose character challenged me to improve my own. One whose love and affection enriched my life. That my children weren’t born stupid or physically deformed. That I wasn’t" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Again, he that feareth pains and crosses in this world, feareth some of those things which some time or other must needs happen in the world." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Thy speech is not right, O man! if thou supposest that he that is of any worth at all, should apprehend either life or death, as a matter of great hazard and danger; and should not make this rather his only care, to examine his own actions, whether just or unjust: whether actions of a good, or of a wicked man, &c. For thus in very truth stands the case, O ye men of Athens. What place or station soever a man either hath chosen to himself, judging it best for himself; or is by lawful authority put and settled in, therein do I think (all appearance of danger notwithstanding) that he should continue, as one who feareth neither death, nor anything else, so much as he feareth to commit anything that is vicious and shameful, &c." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Que no te aparte que detrás venga la crítica o la palabra de algunos, por el contrario, si está bien hecho o bien dicho, no te subestimes. Ellos" -Marcus Aurelius 
"2. For every action, ask: How does it affect me? Could I change my mind about it?" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Если ты огорчаешься по поводу чего-либо внешнего, то угнетает тебя не сама эта вещь, а твое суждение о ней. Но устранить последнее в твоей власти." -Marcus Aurelius 
"This day I shalt have to do with an idle curious man, with an unthankful man, a railer, a crafty, false, or an envious man; an unsociable uncharitable man. All these ill qualities have happened unto them, through ignorance of that which is truly good and truly bad. But I" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Practice even what seems impossible. The left hand is useless at almost everything, for lack of practice. But it guides the reins better than the right. From practice.  7." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Confine desire and aversions to things in one's power." -Marcus Aurelius 
"This may ever be my comfort and security: my understanding, that ruleth over all, will not of itself bring trouble and vexation upon itself." -Marcus Aurelius 
"The things which are ex­ternal to my mind have no re­la­tion at all to my mind." -Marcus Aurelius 
"¡A cuántos Crisipos se ha tragado ya la eternidad, a cuántos Sócrates, a cuántos Epictetos! Que se te ocurra lo mismo ante absolutamente cualquier hombre y cosa." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Avanzo por los caminos que son conformes a la naturaleza hasta, tras caer, tomar un descanso; expiro en el aire de donde respiro cada día y caigo en la tierra de donde mi padre aportó su pequeña semilla, mi madre su pequeña cantidad de sangre[279], la nodriza su pequeña cantidad de leche, de donde me nutro y riego cada día durante tantos años, aquello que me lleva como caminante y que malgasto para mi propio perjuicio en tantas cosas." -Marcus Aurelius 
"For the whole earth is a point, and how small a nook in it is this thy dwelling, and how few are there in it, and what kind of people are they who will praise thee. This then remains: Remember to retire into this little territory of thy own, and above all do not distract or strain thyself, but be free, and look at things as a man, as a human being, as a citizen, as a mortal." -Marcus Aurelius 
"The highest good of man is consciously to work with God for the common good, and this is the sense in which the Stoic tried to live in accord with nature." -Marcus Aurelius 
"He who fears death either fears the loss of sensation or a different kind of sensation. But if you shall have no sensation, neither will you feel any harm; and if you shall acquire another kind of sensation, you will be a different kind of living being and you will not cease to live." -Marcus Aurelius 
"8. Just as you overhear people saying that "the doctor prescribed such-and-such for him” (like riding, or cold baths, or walking barefoot …), say this: "Nature prescribed illness for him." -Marcus Aurelius 
"To those who ask, Where hast thou seen the gods or how dost thou comprehend that they exist and so worshippest them, I answer, in the first place, they may be seen even with the eyes; in the second place neither have I seen even my own soul and yet I honour it. Thus then with respect to the gods, from what I constantly experience of their power, from this I comprehend that they exist and I venerate them. The safety of life is this, to" -Marcus Aurelius 
"What art and profession soever thou hast learned, endeavour to affect it, and comfort thyself in it; and pass the remainder of thy life as one who from his whole heart commits himself and whatsoever belongs unto him, unto the gods: and as for men, carry not thyself either tyrannically or servilely towards any." -Marcus Aurelius 
"4. To do harm is to do yourself harm. To do an injustice is to do yourself an injustice—it degrades you." -Marcus Aurelius 
"With each person you meet, remind yourself that you share a common humanity. You are members of the same family. They may not know this, but you do—so show them by the way you treat them." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Oni ti se ne mogu diviti zbog intelekta. Tomu je tako - no postoje brojne druge značajke, za koje ne možeš reći ''ali to nije način na koji sam stvoren''. Stoga pokazuj one vrline koje su ti potpuno podređene - vjerodostojnost, dostojanstvo, naporan rad, samoodricanje, zadovoljstvo, skromnost, blagost, neovisnost, jednostavnost, diskretnost, velikodušnost. Zar ne vidiš koliko vrlina možeš iskazati bez ijedne isprike zbog manjka nadarenosti ili sposobnosti? Unatoč tome i dalje se zadovoljavaš vući se na začelju. Ili te činjenica što ne posjeduješ nikakvu urođenu nadarenost obvezuje na nezadovoljstvo, škrtost, lasku, optuživanje vlastita nemoćnog tijela, ulizivanje, hvalu, na to da ti je um u tolikoj pomutnji? Ne, nebesa mu, ne obvezuje! Svega si se toga mogao još davno riješiti i nositi samo krivnju - ako to krivnja jest - što si pomalo spor i teže razumiješ. A čak se i na tome dade poraditi - osim ako ne zanemaruješ ili prihvaćaš vlastitu glupost." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Then hath a man attained to the estate of perfection in his life and conversation, when he so spends every day, as if it were his last day: never hot and vehement in his affections, nor yet so cold and stupid as one that had no sense; and free from all manner of dissimulation." -Marcus Aurelius 
"tanto el que goza de un tiempo más largo como el que ha de morir rápidamente deja atrás lo mismo, porque sólo es el presente de lo que va a verse privado, si es eso lo único que tiene y si uno no deja atrás lo que no tiene." -Marcus Aurelius 
"that there is a limit to the time assigned you, and if you don’t use it to free yourself it will be gone and will never return." -Marcus Aurelius 
"3. Everything that happens is either endurable or not. If it’s endurable, then endure it. Stop complaining. If it’s unendurable … then stop complaining. Your destruction will mean its end as well. Just remember: you can endure anything your mind can make endurable, by treating it as in your interest to do so. In your interest, or in your nature. 4." -Marcus Aurelius 
"but he that sins through lust, being overcome by pleasure, doth in his very sin bewray a more impotent, and unmanlike disposition." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Many grains of frankincense on the same altar: one falls before, another falls after; but it makes no difference." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Pentru cei înţelepţi viaţa este o problemă, iar pentru cei obişnuiţi o soluţie." -Marcus Aurelius 
"not to regard anything at all, though never so little, but right and reason: and always, whether in the sharpest pains, or after the loss of a child, or in long diseases, to be still the same man;" -Marcus Aurelius 
"I have often wondered, he says, how it is that every man loves himself more than all the rest of men, and yet sets less value on his own opinion of himself than on the opinion of others." -Marcus Aurelius 
"To him they are only sectaries ‘violently and passionately set upon opposition." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Acquire the contemplative way of seeing how all things change into one another, and constantly attend to it, and exercise thyself about this part of philosophy. For nothing is so much adapted to produce magnanimity. But as to what any man shall say or think about him, or do against him, he never even thinks of it, being himself contented with these two things: (1) with acting justly in what he now does, and (2) being satisfied with what is now assigned to him. He lays aside all distracting and busy pursuits- and desires nothing else - than to do what is right, and accomplish God's will. [Book X v. 11]" -Marcus Aurelius 
"36. Don’t let your imagination be crushed by life as a whole. Don’t try to picture everything bad that could possibly happen. Stick with the situation at hand, and ask, "Why is this so unbearable? Why can’t I endure it?” You’ll be embarrassed to answer. Then remind yourself that past and future have no power over you. Only the present—and even that can be minimized. Just mark off its limits. And if your mind tries to claim that it can’t hold out against that … well, then, heap shame upon it." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Be not angry neither with him whose breath, neither with him whose arm holes, are offensive. What can he do? such is his breath naturally, and such are his arm holes; and from such, such an effect, and such a smell must of necessity proceed. 'O, but the man (sayest thou) hath understanding in him, and might of himself know, that he by standing near, cannot choose but offend.' And thou also (God bless thee!) hast understanding. Let thy reasonable faculty, work upon his reasonable faculty; show him his fault, admonish him. If he hearken unto thee, thou hast cured him, and there will be no more occasion of anger." -Marcus Aurelius 
"hold every hour in your grasp. Lay hold of to-day's task, and you will not need to depend so much upon to-morrow's. While we are postponing, life speeds by. Nothing, Lucilius, is ours, except time. We were entrusted by nature with the ownership of this single thing, so fleeting and slippery that anyone who will can oust us from possession. What fools these mortals be! They allow the cheapest and most useless things, which can easily be replaced, to be charged in the reckoning, after they have acquired them; but they never regard themselves as in debt when they have received some of that precious commodity, – time! And yet time is the one loan which even a grateful recipient cannot repay." -Marcus Aurelius 
"el haber aprendido cómo hay que aceptar los aparentes favores de los amigos, sin dejarse sobornar por ellos ni rechazarlos sin tacto." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Зло коренится для тебя не в руководящем начале других людей и не в превращениях и изменениях твоего тела. – Но где же?. – В твоей способности составлять себе убеждение о зле. Пусть эта способность пребывает в покое даже тогда, когда наиболее ей близкое, ее тело, режут, жгут, когда оно гноится и гниет, т.е. пусть она рассудит, что нет ни добра, ни зла в том, что равно может случиться как с дурным, так и с хорошим человеком. Ведь то, что одинаково может случиться как с живущим в противоречии с природой, так и с живущим согласно ей, то согласно с природой и не идет против нее." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Nicht den Tod sollte man fürchten, sondern daß man nie beginnen wird, zu leben." -Marcus Aurelius 
"but that a man may reduce and contract himself almost to the state of a private man, and yet for all that not to become the more base and remiss in those public matters and affairs, wherein power and authority is requisite." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Cel care trăiește în armonie cu sine însuși, trăiește în armonie cu universul." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Medita en los principios rectores de otros[260], de qué huyen y qué persiguen." -Marcus Aurelius 
"things?—I was once a fortunate man, but I lost it, I know not how.—But fortunate means that a man has assigned to himself a good fortune: and a good fortune is good disposition of the soul, good emotions, good actions." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Now that thou hast taken these names upon thee of good, modest, true; of emfrwn, sumfrwn, uperfrwn; take heed lest at any times by doing anything that is contrary, thou be but improperly so called, and lose thy right to these appellations. Or if thou do, return unto them again with all possible speed. And remember, that the word emfrwn notes unto thee an intent and intelligent consideration of every object that presents itself unto thee, without distraction. And the word emfrwn a ready and contented acceptation of whatsoever by the appointment of the common nature, happens unto thee. And the word sumfrwn, a super-extension, or a transcendent, and outreaching disposition of thy mind," -Marcus Aurelius 
"If it is not right, do not do it: if it is not true, do not say it. For let thy efforts beIn everything always observe what the thing is which produces for thee an appearance," -Marcus Aurelius 
"Contempla il corso degli astri52 immaginando di ruotare con loro e pensa come gli elementi si trasformano continuamente gli uni negli altri. Il pensiero di queste cose, infatti, purifica dalle brutture della vita terrena." -Marcus Aurelius 
"Soon you’ll be ashes, or bones. A mere name, at most—and even that is just a sound, an echo. The things we want in life are empty, stale, and trivial. Dogs snarling at each other. Quarreling children—laughing and then bursting into tears a moment later. Trust, shame, justice, truth—"gone from the earth and only found in heaven.” Why are you still here? Sensory objects are shifting and unstable; our senses dim and easily deceived" -Marcus Aurelius 
"Use thyself even unto those things that thou doest at first despair of. For the left hand we see, which for the most part lieth idle because not used; yet doth it hold the bridle with more strength than the right, because it hath been used unto it." -Marcus Aurelius 
"It is no evil for things to undergo change, and no good for things to subsist in consequence of change." -Marcus Aurelius 
"be not either a man of many words, or busy about too many things." -Marcus Aurelius 
"both thou thyself shalt become a new man, and thou shalt begin a new life." -Marcus Aurelius 
