"Control of consciousness determines the quality of life." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"To overcome the anxieties and depressions of contemporary life, individuals must become independent of the social environment to the degree that they no longer respond exclusively in terms of its rewards and punishments. To achieve such autonomy, a person has to learn to provide rewards to herself. She has to develop the ability to find enjoyment and purpose regardless of external circumstances." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"If you are interested in something, you will focus on it, and if you focus attention on anything, it is likely that you will become interested in it. Many of the things we find interesting are not so by nature, but because we took the trouble of paying attention to them." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Most enjoyable activities are not natural; they demand an effort that initially one is reluctant to make. But once the interaction starts to provide feedback to the person's skills, it usually begins to be intrinsically rewarding." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The best moments in our lives, are not the passive, receptive, relaxing times—although such experiences can also be enjoyable, if we have worked hard to attain them. The best moments usually occur when a person's body or mind is stretched to its limits in a voluntary effort to accomplish something difficult and worthwhile. Optimal experience is thus something that we make happen. For a child, it could be placing with trembling fingers the last block on a tower she has built, higher than any she has built so far; for a swimmer, it could be trying to beat his own record; for a violinist, mastering an intricate musical passage. For each person there are thousands of opportunities, challenges to expand ourselves." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"A joyful life is an individual creation that cannot be copied from a recipe." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Enjoyment appears at the boundary between boredom and anxiety, when the challenges are just balanced with the person's capacity to act." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"...It is when we act freely, for the sake of the action itself rather than for ulterior motives, that we learn to become more than what we were." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Of all the virtues we can learn no trait is more useful, more essential for survival, and more likely to improve the quality of life than the ability to transform adversity into an enjoyable challenge." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"If one has failed to develop curiosity and interest in the early years, it is a good idea to acquire them now, before it is too late to improve the quality of life. To do so is fairly easy in principle, but more difficult in practice. Yet it is sure worth trying. The first step is to develop the habit of doing whatever needs to be done with concentrated attention, with skill rather than inertia. Even the most routine tasks, like washing dishes, dressing, or mowing the lawn become more rewarding if we approach them with the care it would take to make a work of art. The next step is to transfer some psychic energy each day from tasks that we don't like doing, or from passive leisure, into something we never did before, or something we enjoy doing but don't do often enough because it seems too much trouble. There are literally millions of potentially interesting things in the world to see, to do, to learn about. But they don't become actually interesting until we devote attention to them." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Few things are sadder than encountering a person who knows exactly what he should do, yet cannot muster enough energy to do it. ""He who desires but acts not,"" wrote Blake with his accustomed vigor, ""Breeds pestilence." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The task is to learn how to enjoy everyday life without diminishing other people's chances to enjoy theirs." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"...success, like happiness, cannot be pursued; it must ensue...as the unintended side-effect of one's personal dedication to a course greater than oneself." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"It is by being fully involved with every detail of our lives, whether good or bad, that we find happiness, not by trying to look for it directly." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The mystique of rock climbing is climbing; you get to the top of a rock glad it's over but really wish it would go on forever. The justification of climbing is climbing, like the justification of poetry is writing; you don't conquer anything except things in yourself…. The act of writing justifies poetry. Climbing is the same: recognizing that you are a flow. The purpose of the flow is to keep on flowing, not looking for a peak or utopia but staying in the flow. It is not a moving up but a continuous flowing; you move up to keep the flow going. There is no possible reason for climbing except the climbing itself; it is a self-communication." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"the self expands through acts of self forgetfulness." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"On the job people feel skillful and challenged, and therefore feel more happy, strong, creative, and satisfied. In their free time people feel that there is generally not much to do and their skills are not being used, and therefore they tend to feel more sad, weak, dull, and dissatisfied. Yet they would like to work less and spend more time in leisure.What does this contradictory pattern mean? There are several possible explanations, but one conclusion seems inevitable: when it comes to work, people do not heed the evidence of their senses. They disregard the quality of immediate experience, and base their motivation instead on the strongly rooted cultural stereotype of what work is supposed to be like. They think of it as an imposition, a constraint, an infringement of their freedom, and therefore something to be avoided as much as possible." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"People who learn to control inner experience will be able to determine the quality of their lives, which is as close as any of us can come to being happy." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"It is better to look suffering straight in the eye, acknowledge and respect it's presence, and then get busy as soon as possible focusing on things we choose to focus on." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Few things are sadder than encountering a person who knows exactly what he should do, yet cannot muster enough energy to do it." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The psychic entropy peculiar to the human condition involves seeing more to do than one can actually accomplish and feeling able to accomplish more than what conditions allow." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"It is not the skills we actually have that determine how we feel but the ones we think we have." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Attention is like energy in that without it no work can be done, and in doing work is dissipated. We create ourselves by how we use this energy. Memories, thoughts and feelings are all shaped by how use it. And it is an energy under control, to do with as we please; hence attention is our most important tool in the task of improving the quality of experience." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"It is when we act freely, for the sake of the action itself rather than for ulterior motives, that we learn to become more than what we were. When we choose a goal and invest ourselves in it to the limits of concentration, whatever we do will be enjoyable. And once we have tasted this joy, we will redouble our efforts to taste it again. This is the way the self grows." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"It is how we choose what we do, and how we approach it, that will determine whether the sum of our days adds up to a formless blur, or to something resembling a work of art." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"it's a wise parent who allows her children to give up the things of childhood in their own time." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Pain and pleasure occur in consciousness and exist only there" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Control over consciousness is not simply a cognitive skill. At least as much as intelligence, it requires the commitment of emotions and will. It is not enough to know how to do it; one must do it, consistently, in the same way as athletes or musicians who must keep practicing what they know in theory." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"These examples suggest what one needs to learn to control attention. In principle any skill or discipline one can master on one's own will serve: meditation and prayer if one is so inclined; exercise, aerobics, martial arts for those who prefer concentrating on physical skills. Any specialization or expertise that one finds enjoyable and where one can improve one's knowledge over time. The important thing, however, is the attitude toward these disciplines. If one prays in order to be holy, or exercises to develop strong pectoral muscles, or learns to be knowledgeable, then a great deal of the benefit is lost. The important thing is to enjoy the activity for its own sake, and to know that what matters is not the result, but the control one is acquiring over one's attention." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The universe is not hostile, nor yet is it friendly,' in the words of J. H. Holmes. 'It is simply indifferent." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Repression is not the way to virtue. When people restrain themselves out of fear, their lives are by necessity diminished. Only through freely chosen discipline can life be enjoyed and still kept within the bounds of reason." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"It's exhilarating to come closer and closer to self-discipline." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Socializing is more positive than being alone, that's why meetings are so popular. People don't like being alone. That would be, however, an important skill to learn..." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"writing gives the mind a disciplined means of expression." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Competition is enjoyable only when it is a means to perfect one's skills; when it becomes an end in itself, it ceases to be fun." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"A person can make himself happy, or miserable, regardless of what is actually happening 'outside,' just by changing the contents of consciousness. We all know individuals who can transform hopeless situations into challenges to be overcome, just through the force of their personalities. This ability to persevere despite obstacles and setbacks is the quality people most admire in others, and justly so; it is probably the most important trait not only for succeeding in life, but for enjoying it as well." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Most of us become so rigidly fixed in the ruts carved out by genetic programming and social conditioning that we ignore the options of choosing any other course of action. Living exclusively by genetic and social instructions is fine as long as everything goes well. But the moment biological or social goals are frustrated- which in the long run is inevitable - a person must formulate new goals, and create a new flow activity for himself, or else he will always waste his energies in inner turmoil." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"But it is impossible to enjoy a tennis game, a book, or a conversation unless attention is fully concentrated on the activity." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"A person who has achieved control over psychic energy and has invested it in consciously chosen goals cannot help but grow into a more complex being. By stretching skills, by reaching toward higher challenges, such a person becomes an increasingly extraordinary individual." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"How we feel about ourselves, the joy we get from living, ultimately depend directly on how to the mind filters and interprets everyday experiences. Whether we are happy depends on inner harmony, not on the controls we are able to exert over the great forces of the universe. Certainly we should keep on learning how to master the external environment, because our physical survival may depend on it. But such mastery is not going to add one jot to how good we as individuals feel, or reduce the chaos of the world as we experience it. To do that we must learn to achive mastery over conciousness itself." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The roots of the word 'compete' are the Latin con petire, which meant 'to seek together." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The essence of socialization is to make people dependent on social controls, to have them respond predictably to rewards and punishments." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The rules themselves are clear enough, and within everyone's reach. But many forces, both within ourselves and in the environment, stand in the way. It is a little like trying to lose weight: everyone knows what it takes, everyone wants to do it, yet it is next to impossible for so many." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The foremost reason that happiness is so hard to achieve is that the universe was not designed with the comfort of human beings in mind." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"...they make us dependent on a social system that exploits our energies for its own purposes. ...If a person learns to enjoy and find meaning in the ongoing stream of experience, in the process of living itself, the burden of social controls automatically falls from one's shoulders." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Buddhists advise us to ""act always as if the future of the universe depended on what you did, while laughing at yourself for thinking that whatever you do makes any difference."" This serious playfulness makes it possible to be both engaged and carefree at the same time." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"I mean, we're only here for a short while. And I think it's such a lucky accident, having been born, that we're almost obliged to pay attention. In some ways, this is getting far afield. I mean, we are—as far as we know—the only part of the universe that's self-conscious. We could even be the universe's form of consciousness." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The optimal state of inner experience is one in which there is order in consciousness. This happens when psychic energy—or attention—is invested in realistic goals, and when skills match the opportunities for action. The pursuit of a goal brings order in awareness because a person must concentrate attention on the task at hand and momentarily forget everything else." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The mark of a person who is in control of consciousness is the ability to focus attention at will, to be oblivious to distractions, to concentrate for as long as it takes to achieve a goal, and not longer. And the person who can do this usually enjoys the normal course of everyday life." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"But shortcuts are dangerous; we cannot delude ourselves that our knowledge is further along than it actually is." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"But anyone who has experienced flow knows that the deep enjoyment it provieds requires an equal degree of disciplined concentration." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Painters must want to paint above all else. If the artist in front of the canvas begins to wonder how much he will sell it for, or what the critics will think of it, he won't be able to pursue original avenues. Creative achievements depend on single-minded immersion." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Try to be surprised by something every day. It could be something you see, hear, or read about. Stop to look at the unusual car parked at the curb, taste the new item on the cafeteria menu, actually listen to your colleague at the office. How is this different from other similar cars, dishes or conversations? What is its essence? Don't assume that you already know what these things are all about, or that even if you knew them, they wouldn't matter anyway. Experience this once thing for what it is, not what you think it is. Be open to what the world is telling you. Life is nothing more than a stream of experiences - the more widely and deeply you swim in it, the richer your life will be." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"When a man knows he is to be hanged in a fortnight, it concentrates his mind wonderfully," -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Consuming culture is never as rewarding as producing it." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The solution is to gradually become free of societal rewards and learn how to substitute for them rewards that are under one's own powers." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Since the purpose of business is to satisfy existing desires, or stimulate new ones, if everyone were genuinely happy, there would be no need for business any longer." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Adolescents who never learn to control their consciousness grow up to be adults without a 'discipline.' They lack the complex skills that will help them survive in a competitive, information-intensive environment. And what is even more important, they never learn how to enjoy living. They do not acquire the habit of finding challenges that bring out hidden potentials for growth." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"it was found that the more often people report reading books, the more flow experiences they claim to have, while the opposite trend was found for watching television." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"We cannot deny the facts of nature, but we should certainly try to improve on them." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The tremendous leisure industry that has arisen in the last few generations has been designed to help fill free time with enjoyable experiences. Nevertheless, instead of using our physical and mental resources to experience flow, most of us spend many hours each week watching celebrated athletes playing in enormous stadiums. Instead of making music, we listen to platinum records cut by millionaire musicians. Instead of making art, we go to admire paintings that brought in the highest bids at the latest auction. We do not run risks acting on our beliefs, but occupy hours each day watching actors who pretend to have adventures, engaged in mock-meaningful action." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Although watching TV is far from being a positive experience—generally people report feeling passive, weak, rather irritable, and sad when doing it—at least the flickering screen brings a certain amount of order to consciousness. The predictable plots, familiar characters, and even the redundant commercials provide a reassuring pattern of stimulation. The screen invites attention to itself as a manageable, restricted aspect of the environment. While interacting with television, the mind is protected from personal worries. The information passing across the screen keeps unpleasant concerns out of the mind." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"By nature, however, we are born ignorant. Therefore should we not try to learn? Some people produce more than the usual amount of androgens and therefore become excessively aggressive. Does that mean they should freely express violence? We cannot deny the facts of nature, but we should certainly try to improve on them." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"..Such practices and beliefs, which interfere with happiness, are neither inevitable nor necessary; they evolved by chance, as a result of random responses to accidental conditions. But once they become part of the norms and habits of a culture, people assume that this is how things must be; they come to believe they have no other options." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The names we use to describe personality traits - such as extrovert, high achiever, or paranoid - refer to the specific patterns people have used to structure their attantion. At the same party, the extrovert will seek out and enjoy interactions with others, the high achiever will look for useful business conacts, and the paranoid will be on guard for signs of danger he must avoid. Attention can be invested in innumerable ways, ways that can make life eihther rich or miserable." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"One of the most frequently mentioned dimensions of the flow experience is that, while it lasts, one is able to forget all the unpleasant aspects of life." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The second reason creativity is so fascinating is that when we are involved in it, we feel that we are living more fully than during the rest of life." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"But religions are only temporarily successful attempts to cope with the lack of meaning in life; they are not permanent answers." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"One cannot lead a life that is truly excellent without feeling that one belongs to something greater and more permanent than oneself." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The ultimate test for the ability to control the quality of experience is what a person does in solitude, with no external demands to give structure to attention." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"For success, like happiness, cannot be pursued; it must ensue…as the unintended side-effect of one's personal dedication to a course greater than oneself." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"What I 'discovered' was that happiness is not something that happens. It is not the result of good fortune or random chance. It is not something that money can buy or power command. It does not depend on outside events, but, rather, on how we interpret them. Happiness, in fact, is a condition that must be prepared for, cultivated, and defended privately by each person. People who learn to control inner experience will be able to determine the quality of their lives, which is as close as any of us can come to being happy." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"This paradox of rising expectations suggests that improving the quality of life might be an insurmountable task. In fact, there is no inherent problem in our desire to escalate our goals, as long as we enjoy the struggle along the way. The problem arises when people are so fixated on what they want to achieve that they cease to derive pleasure from the present. When that happens, they forfeit their chance of contentment." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"It might be true that it is 'quality time' that counts, but after a certain point quantity has a bearing on quality." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Human beings are the only creatures who are allowed to fail. If an ant fails, it's dead." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The flow experience, like everything else, is not 'good' in an absolute sense. It is good only in that it has the potential to make life more rich, intense, and meaningful; it is good because it increases the strength and complexity of the self." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Entropy is the normal state of consciousness—a condition that is neither useful nor enjoyable. To avoid this condition, people are naturally eager to fill their minds with whatever information is readily available, as long as it distracts attention from turning inward and dwelling on negative feelings. This explains why such a huge proportion of time is invested in watching television, despite the fact that it is very rarely enjoyed." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"when words are well chosen, well arranged, they generate gratifying experiences for the listener. It is not for utilitarian reasons alone that breadth of vocabulary and verbal fluency are among the most important qualifications for success as a business executive. Talking well enriches every interaction, and it is a skill that can be learned by everyone." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"When adversity threatens to paralyze us, we need to reassert control by finding a new direction in which to invest psychic energy, a direction that lies outside the reach of external forces. When every aspiration is frustrated, a person still must seek a meaningful goal around which to organize the self. Then, even though that person is objectively a slave, subjectively he is free. Solzhenitsyn" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The roots of interpersonal conflict are often an excessive concern for oneself, and an inability to pay attention to the needs of others. It is sad to see how often people ruin a relationship because they refuse to recognize that they could serve their own interests best by helping others achieve theirs." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"the phenomenology of enjoyment has eight major components. When people reflect on how it feels when their experience is most positive, they mention at least one, and often all, of the following. First, the experience usually occurs when we confront tasks we have a chance of completing. Second, we must be able to concentrate on what we are doing. Third and fourth, the concentration is usually possible because the task undertaken has clear goals and provides immediate feedback. Fifth, one acts with a deep but effortless involvement that removes from awareness the worries and frustrations of everyday life. Sixth, enjoyable experiences allow people to exercise a sense of control over their actions. Seventh, concern for the self disappears, yet paradoxically the sense of self emerges stronger after the flow experience is over. Finally, the sense of the duration of time is altered; hours pass by in minutes, and minutes can stretch out to seem like hours. The combination of all these elements causes a sense of deep enjoyment that is so rewarding people feel that expending a great deal of energy is worthwhile simply to be able to feel it." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"One of the most ironic paradoxes of our time is this great availability of leisure that somehow fails to be translated into enjoyment. Compared to people living only a few generations ago, we have enormously greater opportunities to have a good time, yet there is no indication that we actually enjoy life more than our ancestors did. Opportunities alone, however, are not enough. We also need the skills to make use of them. And we need to know how to control consciousness—a skill that most people have not learned to cultivate. Surrounded by an astounding panoply of recreational gadgets and leisure choices, most of us go on being bored and vaguely frustrated." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Wake up in the morning with a specific goal to look forward to. Creative individuals don't have to be dragged out of bed; they are eager to start the day. This is not because they are cheerful, enthusiastic types. Nor do they necessarily have something exciting to do. But they believe that there is something meaningful to accomplish each day, and they can't wait to get started on it. Most of us don't feel our actions are that meaningful. Yet everyone can discover at least one thing every day that is worth waking up for. It could be meeting a certain person, shopping for a special item, potting a plant, cleaning the office desk, writing a letter, trying on a new dress. It is easier if each night before falling asleep, you review the next day and choose a particular task that, compared to the rest of the day, should be relatively interesting and exciting. Then next morning, open your eyes and visualize the chosen event—play it out briefly in your mind, like an inner videotape, until you can hardly wait to get dressed and get going. It does not matter if at first the goals are trivial and not that interesting. The important thing is to take the easy first steps until you master the habit, and then slowly work up to more complex goals. Eventually most of the day should consist of tasks you look forward to, until you feel that getting up in the morning is a privilege, not a chore." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Almost every situation we encounter in life presents possibilities for growth...But these transformations require that a person be prepared to perceive unexpected opportunities." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"But no social change can come about until the consciousness of individuals is changed first. When a young man asked Carlyle how he should go about reforming the world, Carlyle answered, 'Reform yourself. That way there will be one less rascal in the world.' The advice is still valid. Those who try to make life better for everyone without having learned to control their own lives first usually end up making things worse all around." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Second, to have a good life, it is not enough to remove what is wrong from it. We also need a positive goal, otherwise why keep going?" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"So the 185 billion events to be enjoyed over our mortal days might be either an overestimate or an underestimate. If we consider the amount of data the brain could theoretically process, the number might be too low; but if we look at how people actually use their minds, it is definitely much too high. In any case, an individual can experience only so much. Therefore, the information we allow into consciousness becomes extremely important; it is, in fact, what determines the content and the quality of life." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"In other words, if Dostoyevsky and Tolstoy showed more than their fair share of pathology it was due less to the requirements of their creative work than to the personal sufferings caused by the unhealthy conditions of a Russian society nearing collapse. If so many American poets and playwrights committed suicide or ended up addicted to drugs and alcohol it was not their creativity that did it but an artistic scene that promised much, gave few rewards and left nine out of ten artists neglected if not ignored." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Contrary to what we usually believe, moments like these, the best moments in our lives, are not the passive, receptive, relaxing times—although such experiences can also be enjoyable, if we have worked hard to attain them. The best moments usually occur when a person's body or mind is stretched to its limits in a voluntary effort to accomplish something difficult and worthwhile." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"theory of optimal experience based on the concept of flow—the state in which people are so involved in an activity that nothing else seems to matter; the experience itself is so enjoyable that people will do it even at great cost, for the sheer sake of doing it." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Enjoyment appears at the boundary between boredom and anxiety, when the challenges are just balanced with the person's capacity to act. The" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The best moments usually occur when a person's body or mind is stretched to its limits in a voluntary effort to accomplish something difficult and worthwhile." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The quality of life does not depend on happiness alone, but also on what one does to be happy. If one fails to develop goals that give meaning to one's existence, if one does not use the mind to its fullest, then good feelings fulfill just a fraction of the potential we possess. A person who achieves contentment by withdrawing from the world to ""cultivate his own garden,"" like Voltaire's Candide, cannot be said to lead an excellent life. Without dreams, without risks, only a trivial semblance of living can be achieved." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"...the concentration is usually possible because the task undertaken has clear goals and provides immediate feedback." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"When adversity threatens to paralyze us, we need to reassert control by finding a new direction in which to invest psychic energy, a direction that lies outside the reach of external forces. When every aspiration is frustrated, a person still must seek a meaningful goal around which to organize the self. Then, even though that person is objectively a slave, subjectively he is free." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"is turning all life into a unified flow experience. If a person sets out to achieve a difficult enough goal, from which all other goals logically follow, and if he or she invests all energy in developing skills to reach that goal, then actions and feelings will be in harmony, and the separate parts of life will fit together—and each activity will 'make sense' in the present, as well as in view of the past and of the future. In such a way, it is possible to give meaning to one's entire life. But isn't it incredibly naive to expect life to have a coherent overall meaning? After all, at least since Nietzsche concluded that God was dead, philosophers and social scientists have been busy demonstrating that existence has no purpose, that chance and impersonal forces rule our fate, and that all values are relative and hence arbitrary. It is true that life has no meaning, if by that we mean a supreme goal built into the fabric of nature and human experience, a goal that is valid for every individual. But it does not follow that life cannot be given meaning. Much of what we call culture and civilization consists in efforts people have made, generally against overwhelming odds, to create a sense of purpose for themselves and their descendants. It is one thing to recognize that life is, by itself, meaningless. It is another thing entirely to accept this with resignation. The first fact does not entail the second any more than the fact that we lack wings prevents us from flying. From the point of view of an individual, it does not matter what the ultimate goal is—provided it is compelling enough to order a lifetime's worth of psychic energy. The challenge might involve the desire to have the best beer-bottle collection in the neighborhood, the resolution to find a cure for cancer, or simply the biological imperative to have children who will survive and prosper. As long as it provides clear objectives, clear rules for action, and a way to concentrate and become involved, any goal can serve to give meaning to a person's life. In the past few years I have come to be quite well acquainted with several Muslim professionals—electronics engineers, pilots, businessmen, and teachers, mostly from Saudi Arabia and from the other Gulf states. In talking to them, I was struck with how relaxed most of them seemed to be even under strong pressure. 'There is nothing to it,' those I asked about it told me, in different words, but with the same message: 'We don't get upset because we believe that our life is in God's hands, and whatever He decides will be fine with us.' Such implicit faith used to be widespread in our culture as well, but it is not easy to find it now. Many of us have to discover a goal that will give meaning to life on our own, without the help of a traditional faith." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Will you ever be anything more than a vessel transmitting the genes and memes of previous generations on to the next?" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"An autotelic experience is very different from the feelings we typically have in the course of life. So much of what we ordinarily do has no value in itself, and we do it only because we have to do it, or because we expect some future benefit from it. Many people feel that the time they spend at work is essentially wasted—they are alienated from it, and the psychic energy invested in the job does nothing to strengthen their self. For quite a few people free time is also wasted. Leisure provides a relaxing respite from work, but it generally consists of passively absorbing information, without using any skills or exploring new opportunities for action. As a result life passes in a sequence of boring and anxious experiences over which a person has little control. The autotelic experience, or flow, lifts the course of life to a different level. Alienation gives way to involvement, enjoyment replaces boredom, helplessness turns into a feeling of control, and psychic energy works to reinforce the sense of self, instead of being lost in the service of external goals. When experience is intrinsically rewarding life is justified in the present, instead of being held hostage to a hypothetical future gain." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"As J. S. Mill wrote, 'No great improvements in the lot of mankind are possible, until a great change takes place in the fundamental constitution of their modes of thought." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"But consuming culture is never as rewarding as producing it." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"There was a time when it was admirable to be an amateur poet or a dilettante scientist, because it meant that the quality of life could be improved by engaging in such activities. But increasingly the emphasis has been to value behavior over subjective states; what is admired is success, achievement, the quality of performance rather than the quality of experience." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Creating meaning involves bringing order to the contents of the mind by integrating one's actions into a unified flow experience." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"All our contemporaries...had some big ideology to live for. Everybody thought he had to either fight in Spain or die for something else, and most of us had to be in prison for one reason or another. And then at the end it turns out that none of these great ideologies was worth your sacrificing anything for. Even doing personal good is very difficult to be absolutely sure about. It's very difficult to know exactly whether to live for an ideology or even to live for doing good. But there cannot be anything wrong in making a pot, I'll tell you. When making a pot you can't bring any evil into the world. - Eva Zeisel, ceramist." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"After curiosity, this quality of concentrated attention is what creative individuals mention most often as having set them apart in college from their peers. Without this quality, they could not have sustained the hard work, the ‘perspiration.' Curiosity and drive are in many ways the yin and the yang that need to be combined in order to achieve something new." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Cicero once wrote that to be completely free one must become a slave to a set of laws. In other words, accepting limitations is liberating." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"enjoyment, as we have seen, does not depend on what you do, but rather on how you do it." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"While we cannot foresee the eventual results of creativity—of the attempt to impose our desires on reality, to become the main power that decides the destiny of every form of life on the planet—at least we can try to understand better what this force is and how it works. Because for better or for worse, our future is now closely tied to human creativity. The result will be determined in large part by our dreams and by the struggle to make them real." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"It has been said that all the stories have already been told, that there is nothing left to say. At best, a writer's job is to pour new wine in old bottles, to retell in a new way the same emotional predicaments that humans have felt since the beginnings of time. Yet many authors find this a worthwhile challenge; they think of themselves as gardeners whose task is to cultivate perennial ideas generation after generation. The same flowers will bloom each spring, but if the gardener slacks off, weeds will take over." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"We all know individuals who can transform hopeless situations into challenges to be overcome, just through the force of their personalities. This ability to persevere despite obstacles and setbacks is the quality people most admire in others, and justly so; it is probably the most important trait not only for succeeding in life, but for enjoying it as well." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Yet we cannot reach happiness by consciously searching for it. 'Ask yourself whether you are happy,' said J. S. Mill, 'and you cease to be so.' It is by being fully involved with every detail of our lives, whether good or bad, that we find happiness, not by trying to look for it directly. Viktor Frankl, the Austrian psychologist, summarized it beautifully in the preface to his book Man's Search for Meaning: 'Don't aim at success—the more you aim at it and make it a target, the more you are going to miss it. For success, like happiness, cannot be pursued; it must ensue…as the unintended side-effect of one's personal dedication to a course greater than oneself.' So" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Even when children are taught music, the usual problem often arises: too much emphasis is placed on how they perform, and too little on what they experience. Parents" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Few would argue that a simpler consciousness, no matter how harmonious, is preferable to a more complex one. While we might admire the serenity of the lion in repose, the tribesman's untroubled acceptance of his fate, or the child's wholehearted involvement in the present, they cannot offer a model for resolving our predicament. The order based on innocence is now beyond our grasp. Once the fruit is plucked from the tree of knowledge, the way back to Eden is barred forever." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Everything we experience—joy or pain, interest or boredom—is represented in the mind as information. If we are able to control this information, we can decide what our lives will be like." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The problem arises when people are so fixated on what they want to achieve that they cease to derive pleasure from the present." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"When every aspiration is frustrated, a person still must seek a meaningful goal around which to organize the self. Then, even though that person is objectively a slave, subjectively he is free." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The future,' wrote C. K. Brightbill, 'will belong not only to the educated man, but to the man who is educated to use his leisure wisely." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Yet even if their advice were to work, what would be the result afterward in the unlikely event that one did turn into a slim, well-loved, powerful millionaire? Usually what happens is that the person finds himself back at square one, with a new list of wishes, just as dissatisfied as before. What would really satisfy people is not getting slim or rich, but feeling good about their lives. In the quest for happiness, partial solutions don't work." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Someone who knows his desires and works with purpose to achieve them is a person whose feelings, thoughts, and actions are congruent with one another, and is therefore a person who has achieved inner harmony." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Many lives are disrupted by tragic accidents, and even the most fortunate are subjected to stresses of various kinds. Yet such blows do not necessarily diminish happiness. It is how people respond to stress that determines whether they will profit from misfortune or be miserable." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The more a job inherently resembles a game—with variety, appropriate and flexible challenges, clear goals, and immediate feedback—the more enjoyable it will be regardless of the worker's level of development. Hunting," -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Wealth, status, and power have become in our culture all too powerful symbols of happiness. ... And we assume that if only we could acquire some of those same symbols, we would be nuch happier." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"It is true that life has no meaning, if by that we mean a supreme goal built into the fabric of nature and human experience, a goal that is valid for every individual. But it does not follow that life cannot be given meaning." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"To pursue mental operations to any depth, a person has to learn to concentrate attention. Without focus, consciousness is in a state of chaos." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The good things in life do not come only through the senses. Some of the most exhilarating experiences we undergo are generated inside the mind, triggered by information that challenges our ability to think, rather than from the use of sensory skills." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The old woman who farms in the Alps, the welder in South Chicago, and the mythical cook from ancient China have this in common: their work is hard and unglamorous, and most people would find it boring, repetitive, and meaningless. Yet these individuals transformed the jobs they had to do into complex activities. They did this by recognizing opportunities for action where others did not, by developing skills, by focusing on the activity at hand, and allowing themselves to be lost in the interaction so that their selves could emerge stronger afterward." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"We are always getting to live, as Ralph Waldo Emerson used to say, but never living. Or as poor Frances learned in the children's story, it is always bread and jam tomorrow, never brad and jam today." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The mark of a person who is in control of consciousness is the ability to focus attention at will, to be oblivious to distractions, to concentrate for as long as it takes to achieve a goal, and not longer." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"In reality, to achieve such an ordered mental condition is not as easy as it sounds. Contrary to what we tend to assume, the normal state of the mind is chaos. Without" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Power returns to the person when rewards are no longer relegated to outside forces." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Even if we don't want to admit it, the ability to overcome most obstacles is within our hands. We can't blame family, society, or history if our work is meaningless, dull, or stressful. Admittedly, there are not too many options when we realize that our job is useless, or actually harmful. Perhaps the only choice is to quit as quickly as possible, even at the cost of severe financial hardship. In terms of the bottom line of one's life, it is always a better deal to do something one feels good about than something that may make us materially comfortable but emotionally miserable. Such decisions are notoriously difficult, and require great honesty with oneself." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"...what the social environment told them to want..." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"If the functions of the body are left to atrophy, the quality of life becomes merely adequate, and for some even dismal. But if one takes control of what the body can do, and learns to impose order on physical sensations, entropy yields to a sense of enjoyable harmony in consciousness." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The most important step in emancipating oneself from social controls is the ability to find rewards in the events of each moment. If a person learns to enjoy and find meaning in the ongoing stream of experience, in the process of living itself, the burden of social controls automatically falls from one's shoulders. Power returns to the person when rewards are no longer relegated to outside forces." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"People without an internalized symbolic system can all too easily become captives of the media. They are easily manipulated by demagogues, pacified by entertainers, and exploited by anyone who has something to sell." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Whether we are happy depends on inner harmony, not on the controls we are able to exert over the great forces of the universe." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The swimmer's muscles might have ached during his most memorable race, his lungs might have felt like exploding, and he might have been dizzy with fatigue—yet these could have been the best moments of his life. Getting control of life is never easy, and sometimes it can be definitely painful. But in the long run optimal experiences add up to a sense of mastery—or perhaps better, a sense of participation in determining the content of life—that comes as close to what is usually meant by happiness as anything else we can conceivably imagine." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The most important step in emancipating oneself from social controls is the ability to find rewards in the events of each moment." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Though the evidence suggests that most people are caught up on this frustrating treadmill of rising expectations, many individuals have found ways to escape it. These are people who, regardless of their material conditions, have been able to improve the quality of their lives, who are satisfied, and who have a way of making those around them also a bit more happy. Such individuals lead vigorous lives, are open to a variety of experiences, keep on learning until the day they die, and have strong ties and commitments to other people and to the environment in which they live. They enjoy whatever they do, even if tedious or difficult; they are hardly ever bored, and they can take in stride anything that comes their way. Perhaps their greatest strength is that they are in control of their lives." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Currently spirituality is at an ebb in the more advanced technological societies. This in part because memes that validate spiritual order tend to lose their credibility with time, and need to be recast in new forms again and again. At present we are living in an era when many of the basic tenets of Christianity, which has supported Western spiritual values for almost two thousand years, have come into conflict with the conclusions of science and philosophy. While religions have lost much of their power, science and technology have not been able to generate convincing value systems to replace them." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Over the course of human evolution, as each group of people became gradually aware of the enormity of its isolation in the cosmos and of the precariousness of its hold on survival, it developed myths and beliefs to transform the random, crushing forces of the universe into manageable, or at least understandable, patterns." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"To realize the body's potential for flow is relatively easy. It does not require special talents or great expenditures of money. Everyone can greatly improve the quality of life by exploring one or more previously ignored dimensions of physical abilities. Of" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"By stretching skills, by reaching toward higher challenges, such a person becomes an increasingly extraordinary individual." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"When not preoccupied with our selves, we actually have a chance to expand the concept of who we are. Loss of self-consciousness can lead to self-transcendence, to a feeling that the boundaries of our being have been pushed forward." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"To live means to experience-through doing, feeling, thinking. Experience takes place in time, so time is the ultimate scarce resource we have. Over the years, the content of experience will determine the quality of life. Therefore one of the most essential decisions any of us can make is about how one's time is allocated or invested." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"To what extent have I accepted other people's definition of who I am and what I could be? How ignorant am I of the values held by people of different cultures? Or more prosaically: Do I actually like the highly advertised values of my car? Is the company I work for deserving of my loyalty? Is working seventy hours a week really the best investment of my life energy? Is a slim figure, a youthful look the highest peak of human accomplishment? It was for asking similar questions that Socrates had to drink hemlock, and Savonarola was burned at the stake." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The difference between someone who enjoys life and someone who is overwhelmed by it is a product of a combination of such external factors and the way a person has come to interpret them—that is, whether he sees challenges as threats or as opportunities for action. The 'autotelic self' is one that easily translates potential threats into enjoyable challenges, and therefore maintains its inner harmony. A person who is never bored, seldom anxious, involved with what goes on, and in flow most of the time may be said to have an autotelic self. The term literally means 'a self that has self-contained goals,' and it reflects the idea that such an individual has relatively few goals that do not originate from within the self. For most people, goals are shaped directly by biological needs and social conventions, and therefore their origin is outside the self. For an autotelic person, the primary goals emerge from experience evaluated in consciousness, and therefore from the self proper. The autotelic self transforms potentially entropic experience into flow. Therefore" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"When the lifestyle of a social group becomes obsolete, when work turns into a boring routine and community responsibilities lose their meaning, it is likely that leisure will become increasingly more important. And if a society becomes too dependent on entertainment, it is likely that there will be less psychic energy left to cope creatively with the technological and economic challenges that will inevitably arise." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Чтобы обрести контроль над качеством своей жизни, нужно научиться извлекать радость из повседневных дел" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The best moments in our lives are not the passive, receptive, relaxing times - although such experiences can also be enjoyable, if we have worked hard to attain them. The best moments usually occur when a person's body or mind is stretched to its limits in a voluntary effort to accomplish something difficult and worthwhile." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"While happiness itself is sought for its own sake, every other goal - health, beauty, money or power - is valued only because we expect that it will make us happy." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Neither parents nor schools are very effective at teaching the young to find pleasure in the right things. Adults, themselves often deluded by infatuation with fatuous models, conspire in the deception. They make serious tasks seem dull and hard, and frivolous ones exciting and easy. Schools generally fial to teach how exciting, how mesmerizingly beautiful science or mathematics can be; they teach the routine of literature or history rather than the adventure." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The last great attempt to free consciousness from the domination of impulses and social controls was psychoanalysis; as Freud pointed out, the two tyrants that fought for control over the mind were the id and the superago, the first a servant of a genes, the second a lackey of society - both representing the ""Other""." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"For better or for worse, at this time science is still the most trustworthy mirror of reality, and we ignore it only at our peril." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The optimal state of inner experience is one in which there is order in consciousness. This happens when psychic energy—or attention—is invested in realistic goals, and when skills match the opportunities for action." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"One of the simplest ways to decrease the frequency of negative thoughts is by selectively moderating expectations." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"There are natives of New Guinea who spend more time looking in the jungle for the colorful feathers they use for decoration in their ritual dances than they spend looking for food. And this is by no means a rare example: art, play, and ritual probably occupy more time and energy in most cultures than work." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"no worthwhile effort in one's life is either a success or a failure." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"A person who rarely gets bored, who does not constantly need a favorable external environment to enjoy the moment, has passed the test for having achieved a creative life." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Goals justify the effort they demand at the outset, but later it is the effort that justifies the goal." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"This cultural hubris, or overweening presumption about what we are entitled to from a universe that is basically insensitive to human needs, generally leads to trouble. The unwarranted sense of security sooner or later results in a rude awakening. When people start believing that progress is inevitable and life easy, they may quickly lose courage and determination in the face of the first signs of adversity." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Everything the body can do is potentially enjoyable. Yet many people ignore this capacity, and use their physical equipment as little as possible, leaving its ability to provide flow unexploited. When" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Activity and reflection should ideally complement and support each other. Action by itself is blind, reflection impotent." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The sacred books of Judaism, Christianity, Islam, Buddhism, and the Veda are the best repositories of the ideas that mattered most to our ancestors, and to ignore them is an act of childish conceit. But it is equally naive to believe that whatever was written down in the past contains an absolute truth that lasts forever." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The roots of the discontent are internal, and each person must untangle them personally, with his or her own power. The shields that have worked in the past—the order that religion, patriotism, ethnic traditions, and habits instilled by social classes used to provide—are no longer effective for increasing numbers of people who feel exposed to the harsh winds of chaos." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Psychiatrists describe schizophrenics as suffering from anhedonia, which literally means 'lack of pleasure.' This symptom appears to be related to 'stimulus overinclusion,' which refers to the fact that schizophrenics are condemned to notice irrelevant stimuli, to process information whether they like it or not." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"People who know how to transform stress into enjoyable challenge spend very little time thinking about themselves. They are not expending all their energy trying to satisfy what they believe to be their needs, or worrying about socially conditioned desires. Instead their attention is alert, constantly processing information from their surroundings. The focus is still set by the person's goal, but it is open enough to notice and adapt to external events even if they are not directly relevant to what he wants to accomplish." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"As a child Gottfried was very close to his mother, and his memories of those early years are sunny and warm. But before he turned ten, his mother developed cancer, and died in great pain. The young boy could have felt sorry for himself and become depressed, or he could have adopted hardened cynicism as a defense. Instead he began to think of the disease as his personal enemy, and swore to defeat it. In time he earned a medical degree and became a research oncologist, and the results of his work have become part of the pattern of knowledge that eventually will free mankind of this scourge. In this case, again, a personal tragedy became transformed into a challenge that can be met. In developing skills to meet that challenge, the individual improves the lives of other people." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The mental framework that makes science enjoyable is accessible to everyone. It involves curiosity, careful observation, a disciplined way of recording events, and finding ways to tease out the underlying regularities in what one learns. It also requires the humility to be willing to learn from the results of past investigators, coupled with enough skepticism and openness of mind to reject beliefs that are not sup-ported by facts." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"To be distracted against one's will is the surest sign that one is not in control." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The key element of an optimal experience is that it is an end in itself." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Whenever the outside world offers no mercy, an internal symbolic system can become a salvation." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The complexity and freedom that have been thrust upon us, and that our ancestors had fought so hard to achieve, are a challenge we must find ways to master. If we do, the lives of our descendants will be infinitely more enriched than anything previously experienced on this planet. If we do not, we run the risk of frittering away our energies on contradictory, meaningless goals. But in the meantime how do we know where to invest psychic energy? There is no one out there to tell us, 'Here is a goal worth spending your life on.' Because there is no absolute certainty to which to turn, each person must discover ultimate purpose on his or her own. Through trial and error, through intense cultivation, we can straighten out the tangled skein of conflicting goals, and choose the one that will give purpose to action. Self-knowledge—an ancient remedy so old that its value is easily forgotten—is the process through which one may organize conflicting options. 'Know thyself' was carved over the entrance to the Delphic oracle, and ever since untold pious epigrams have extolled its virtue. The reason the advice is so often repeated is that it works. We need, however, to rediscover afresh every generation what these words mean, what the advice actually implies for each individual. And to do that it is useful to express it in terms of current knowledge, and envision a contemporary method for its application." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The traits that mark an autotelic personality are most clearly revealed by people who seem to enjoy situations that ordinary persons would find unbearable. Lost" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Wisdom and integrity cannot be found in any single domain. A broader viewpoint that breaks across disciplinary boundaries is needed, a way of understanding that combines knowing and sensing, feeling and judging. In facing this task one cannot expect to succeed in the public eye, as one can when a field of culture recognizes one's contributions to art, business, or science. But by this time a person aspiring to wisdom knows that the bottom line of a well-lived life is not so much success but the certainty we reach, in the most private fibers of our being, that our existence is linked in a meaningful way with the rest of the universe." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Freeman Dyson said: 'It is characteristic of scientific life that it is easy when you have a problem to work on. The hard part is finding your problem." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Luckily, the world is absolutely full of interesting things to do. Only lack of imagination, or lack of energy, stand in the way. Otherwise each of us could be a poet or musician, an inventor or explorer, an amateur scholar, scientist, artist, or collector." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"A large majority of our respondents were inspired by a tension in their domain that became obvious when looked at from the perspective of another domain. Even though they do not think of themselves as interdisciplinary, their best work bridges realms of ideas. Their histories tend to cast doubt on the wisdom of overspecialization, where bright young people are trained to become exclusive experts in one field and shun breadth like the plague." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"If everything was determinedby the common human condition, by social and cultural categories, and by chance, it would be useless to reflect on ways to make one's life excellent. Fortunately there is enough room for personal initiative and choice to make a real difference. And those who believe this are the ones with the best chance to break free from the grip of fate." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"If we assume, however, that the desire to achieve optimal experience is the foremost goal of every human being, the difficulties of interpretation raised by cultural relativism become less severe. Each social system can then be evaluated in terms of how much psychic entropy it causes, measuring that disorder not with reference to the ideal order of one or another belief system, but with reference to the goals of the members of that society." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The insight presumably occurs when a subconscious connection between ideas fits so well that it is forced to pop out into awareness, like a cork held underwater breaking out into the air after it is released." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"If you are pained by external things, it is not they that disturb you, but your own judgment of them. And it is in your power to wipe out that judgment now." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"If music modulates our feelings, so does food; and all the fine cuisines of the world are based on that knowledge. The" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The flat tire that threw Julio into a temporary panic and the divorce that almost killed Jim don't act directly as physical causes producing a physical effect—as, for instance, one billiard ball hitting another and making it carom in a predictable direction. The outside event appears in consciousness purely as information, without necessarily having a positive or negative value attached to it. It is the self that interprets that raw information in the context of its own interests, and determines whether it is harmful or not. For instance, if Julio had had more money or some credit, his problem would have been perfectly innocuous. If in the past he had invested more psychic energy in making friends on the job, the flat tire would not have created panic, because he could have always asked one of his co-workers to give him a ride for a few days. And if he had had a stronger sense of self-confidence, the temporary setback would not have affected him as much because he would have trusted his ability to overcome it eventually. Similarly, if Jim had been more independent, the divorce would not have affected him as deeply. But at his age his goals must have still been bound up too closely with those of his mother and father, so that the split between them also split his sense of self. Had he had closer friends or a longer record of goals successfully achieved, his self would have had the strength to maintain its integrity. He was lucky that after the breakdown his parents realized the predicament and sought help for themselves and their son, reestablishing a stable enough relationship with Jim to allow him to go on with the task of building a sturdy self. Every piece of information we process gets evaluated for its bearing on the self. Does it threaten our goals, does it support them, or is it neutral? News of the fall of the stock market will upset the banker, but it might reinforce the sense of self of the political activist. A new piece of information will either create disorder in consciousness, by getting us all worked up to face the threat, or it will reinforce our goals, thereby freeing up psychic energy." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The only path to finding out what life is about is a patient, slow attempt to make sense of the realities of the past and the possibilities of the future as they can be understood in the present." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The key to flow is to pursue an activity for its own sake, not for the rewards it brings.""--(psychologist Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi on the state of being he calls ""flow"")" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Thus we might think of consciousness as intentionally ordered information. This" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Among the many intellectual pursuits available, reading is currently perhaps the most often mentioned flow activity around the world. Solving" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Activity and reflection should ideally complement and support each other. Action by itself is blind, reflection impotent. Before investing great amounts of energy in a goal, it pays to raise the fundamental questions: Is this something I really want to do? Is it something I enjoy doing? Am I likely to enjoy it in the foreseeable future? Is the price that I—and others—will have to pay worth it? Will I be able to live with myself if I accomplish it? These" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"If I had to express in one word what makes the creative personality different from others, it would be complexity. Like the color white that includes all the hues in the spectrum, they tend to bring together the entire range of human possibilities within themselves." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"For several years the researchers did not let anyone else in on their work, not because they were afraid it would be stolen, but because they were afraid that their colleagues would laugh at their seemingly crazy ideas." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The foremost reason that happiness is so hard to achieve is that the universe was not designed with the comfort of human beings in mind. It is almost immeasurably huge, and most of it is hostilely empty and cold. It is the setting for great violence, as when occasionally a star explodes, turning to ashes everything within billions of miles. The rare planet whose gravity field would not crush our bones is probably swimming in lethal gases. Even planet Earth, which can be so idyllic and picturesque, is not to be taken for granted. To survive on it men and women have had to struggle for millions of years against ice, fire, floods, wild animals, and invisible microorganisms that appear out of nowhere to snuff us out." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Strand sees his main skill as just paying attention to the textures and rhythms of life, being receptive to the multifaceted, constantly changing yet ever recurring stream of experiences. The secret of saying something new is to be patient. If one reacts too quickly, it is likely that the reaction will be superficial, a cliché. 'Keep your eyes and ears open,' he says, 'and your mouth shut. For as long as possible.' Yet life is short, so patience is painful to the poet. Poetry is about slowing down, I think. It's about reading the same thing again and again, really savoring it, living inside the poem. There's no rush to find out what happens in a poem. It's really about feeling one syllable rubbing against another, one word giving way to another, and sensing the justice of that relationship between one word, the next, the next, the next." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The optimal state of inner experience is one in which there is order in consciousness. This happens when psychic energy—or attention—is invested in realistic goals, and when skills match the opportunities for action" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Dante recognized that every system of spiritual order, when it becomes incorporated into a worldly structure like an organized church, begins to suffer the effects of entropy. So to extract meaning from a system of beliefs a person must first compare the information contained in it with his or her concrete experience, retain what makes sense, and then reject the rest." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"A person can feel pleasure without any effort, if the appropriate centers in his brain are electrically stimulated, or as a result of the chemical stimulation of drugs. But it is impossible to enjoy a tennis game, a book, or a conversation unless attention is fully concentrated on the activity." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"You could say that I worked every minute of my life, or you could say with equal justice that I never worked a day." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Cicero once wrote that to be completely free one must become a slave to a set of laws. In other words, accepting limitations is liberating. For example, by making up one's mind to invest psychic energy exclusively in a monogamous marriage, regardless of any problems, obstacles, or more attractive options that may come along later, one is freed of the constant pressure of trying to maximize emotional returns. Having made the commitment that an old-fashioned marriage demands, and having made it willingly instead of being compelled by tradition, a person no longer needs to worry whether she has made the right choice, or whether the grass might be greener somewhere else. As a result a great deal of energy gets freed up for living, instead of being spent on wondering about how to live." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Is it really true that a person without a Ph.D., who is not working at one of the major research centers, no longer has any chance of contributing to the advancement of science? Or is this just one of those largely unconscious efforts at mystification to which all successful institutions inevitably succumb? It is difficult to answer these questions, partly because what constitutes 'science' is of course defined by those very institutions that are in line to benefit from their monopoly. There" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"a constant alternation between a highly concentrated critical assessment and a relaxed, receptive, nonjudgmental openness to experience. His attention coils and uncoils, its focus sharpens and softens, like the systolic and diastolic beat of the heart. It is out of this dynamic change of perspective that a good new work arises." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"it is difficult to ignore challenges once one is aware that they exist." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Unfortunately many serious thinkers devote all their mental effort to becoming well-known scholars, but in the meantime they forget their initial purpose in scholarship. In" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"We have seen that experience depends on the way we invest psychic energy—on the structure of attention. This, in turn, is related to goals and intentions. These processes are connected to each other by the self, or the dynamic mental representation we have of the entire system of our goals. These are the pieces that must be maneuvered if we wish to improve things." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"A self-centered individual is usually not self-conscious, but instead evaluates every bit of information only in terms of how it relates to her desires. For such a person everything is valueless in itself. A flower is not worth a second look unless it can be used; a man or a woman who cannot advance one's interests does not deserve further attention. Consciousness is structured entirely in terms of its own ends, and nothing is allowed to exist in it that does not conform to those ends. Although a self-conscious person is in many respects different from a self-centered one, neither is in enough control of psychic energy to enter easily into a flow experience" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Before investing great amounts of energy in a goal, it pays to raise the fundamental questions: Is this something I really want to do? Is it something I enjoy doing? Am I likely to enjoy it in the foreseeable future? Is the price that I—and others—will have to pay worth it? Will I be able to live with myself if I accomplish it?" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Much has been written about what makes families work. The consensus is that families that support the emotional well-being and growth of their members combine two almost opposite traits. They combine discipline with spontaneity, rules with freedom, high expectations with unstinting love." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"sexuality, like any other aspect of life, can be made enjoyable if we are willing to take control of it, and cultivate it in the direction of greater complexity." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The best moments in our lives are not the passive, receptive, relaxing times. The best moments usually occur if a person's body or mind is stretched to its limits in a voluntary effort to accomplish something difficult and worthwhile." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"we can experience pleasure without any investment of psychic energy, whereas enjoyment happens only as a result of unusual investments of attention." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Stern responds to the question about what was the main obstacle he encountered in his life: I think it's that rubbishy part of myself, that part which is described by such words as vanity, pride, the sense of not being treated as I should be, comparison with others, and so on. I've tried rather hard to discipline that. And I've been lucky that there has been enough that's positive to enable me to counter a kind of biliousness and resentment—ressentiment—which I've seen paralyze colleagues of mine, peers who are more gifted than I. I've felt it in myself. And I've had to learn to counter that. I would say that the chief obstacle is—oneself." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"psychological androgyny is a much wider concept, referring to a person's ability to be at the same time aggressive and nurturant, sensitive and rigid, dominant and submissive, regardless of gender. A psychologically androgynous person in effect doubles his or her repertoire of responses and can interact with the world in terms of a much richer and varied spectrum of opportunities. It is not surprising that creative individuals are more likely to have not only the strengths of their own gender but those of the other one, too." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"When adversity threatens to paralyze us, we need to reassert control by finding a new direction in which to invest psychic energy, a direction that lies outside the reach of external forces." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Gioacchino Rossini, the composer of William Tell and many other operas, had a good grasp of the relationship between music and food: 'What love is to the heart, appetite is to the stomach. The stomach is the conductor that leads and livens up the great orchestra of our emotions.' If" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"In fact, flow and religion have been intimately connected from earliest times. Many of the optimal experiences of mankind have taken place in the context of religious rituals. Not only art but drama, music, and dance had their origins in what we now would call 'religious' settings; that is, activities aimed at connecting people with supernatural powers and entities. The same is true of games. One of the earliest ball games, a form of basketball played by the Maya, was part of their religious celebrations, and so were the original Olympic games. This connection is not surprising, because what we call religion is actually the oldest and most ambitious attempt to create order in consciousness. It therefore makes sense that religious rituals would be a profound source of enjoyment." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"One of the most ironic paradoxes of our time is this great availability of leisure that somehow fails to be translated into enjoyment." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Unconditional acceptance, the complete trust family members ought to have for one another, is meaningful only when it is accompanied by an unstinting investment of attention. Otherwise it is just an empty gesture, a hypocritical pretense indistinguishable from disinterest." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"What we found was that when people were pursuing leisure activities that were expensive in terms of the outside resources required—activities that demanded expensive equipment, or electricity, or other forms of energy measured in BTUs, such as power boating, driving, or watching television—they were significantly less happy than when involved in inexpensive leisure. People were happiest when they were just talking to one another, when they gardened, knitted, or were involved in a hobby; all of these activities require few material resources, but they demand a relatively high investment of psychic energy. Leisure that uses up external resources, however, often requires less attention, and as a consequence it generally provides less memorable rewards." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Much of contemporary ""realism"" turns out to be just a variation on good old fashioned fatalism: people feel relieved of responsibility by recourse to the concept of 'nature'. By nature, however, we are born ignorant. Therefore should we try not to learn? Some people produce more than the usual amount of androgens and therefore become excessively aggressive. Does that mean we should freely express violence? We cannot. Submission to genetic programming can become dangerous, because it leaves us helpless." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"In our studies, we found that every flow activity, whether it involved competition, chance, or any other dimension of experience, had this in common: It provided a sense of discovery, a creative feeling of transporting the person into a new reality. It pushed the person to higher levels of performance, and led to previously undreamed-of states of consciousness. In short, it transformed the self by making it more complex. In" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Недостаточно просто наслаждаться жизнью, чтобы считать её в высшей степени достойной. Главное - находить радость в том, что расширяет спектр наших умений, помогает расти и развивать потенциал." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"We have seen earlier that when an activity is thoroughly engrossing, there is not enough attention left over to allow a person to consider either the past or the future, or any other temporarily irrelevant stimuli. One item that disappears from awareness deserves special mention, because in normal life we spend so much time thinking about it: our own self." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"If goals are well chosen, and if we have the courage to abide by them despite opposition, we shall be so focused on the actions and events around us that we won't have the time to be unhappy." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"psychological androgyny is a much wider concept, referring to a person's ability to be at the same time aggressive and nurturant, sensitive and rigid, dominant and submissive, regardless of gender. A psychologically androgynous person in effect doubles his or her repertoire of responses and can interact with the world in terms of a much richer and varied spectrum of opportunities. It is not surprising that creative individuals are more likely to have not only the strengths of their own gender but those of the other one, too." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Stern responds to the question about what was the main obstacle he encountered in his life: I think it's that rubbishy part of myself, that part which is described by such words as vanity, pride, the sense of not being treated as I should be, comparison with others, and so on. I've tried rather hard to discipline that. And I've been lucky that there has been enough that's positive to enable me to counter a kind of biliousness and resentment—ressentiment—which I've seen paralyze colleagues of mine, peers who are more gifted than I. I've felt it in myself. And I've had to learn to counter that. I would say that the chief obstacle is—oneself." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"we can experience pleasure without any investment of psychic energy, whereas enjoyment happens only as a result of unusual investments of attention." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The best moments in our lives are not the passive, receptive, relaxing times. The best moments usually occur if a person's body or mind is stretched to its limits in a voluntary effort to accomplish something difficult and worthwhile." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"sexuality, like any other aspect of life, can be made enjoyable if we are willing to take control of it, and cultivate it in the direction of greater complexity." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Much has been written about what makes families work. The consensus is that families that support the emotional well-being and growth of their members combine two almost opposite traits. They combine discipline with spontaneity, rules with freedom, high expectations with unstinting love." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Before investing great amounts of energy in a goal, it pays to raise the fundamental questions: Is this something I really want to do? Is it something I enjoy doing? Am I likely to enjoy it in the foreseeable future? Is the price that I—and others—will have to pay worth it? Will I be able to live with myself if I accomplish it?" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"A self-centered individual is usually not self-conscious, but instead evaluates every bit of information only in terms of how it relates to her desires. For such a person everything is valueless in itself. A flower is not worth a second look unless it can be used; a man or a woman who cannot advance one's interests does not deserve further attention. Consciousness is structured entirely in terms of its own ends, and nothing is allowed to exist in it that does not conform to those ends. Although a self-conscious person is in many respects different from a self-centered one, neither is in enough control of psychic energy to enter easily into a flow experience" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"We have seen that experience depends on the way we invest psychic energy—on the structure of attention. This, in turn, is related to goals and intentions. These processes are connected to each other by the self, or the dynamic mental representation we have of the entire system of our goals. These are the pieces that must be maneuvered if we wish to improve things." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Unfortunately many serious thinkers devote all their mental effort to becoming well-known scholars, but in the meantime they forget their initial purpose in scholarship. In" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"it is difficult to ignore challenges once one is aware that they exist." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"a constant alternation between a highly concentrated critical assessment and a relaxed, receptive, nonjudgmental openness to experience. His attention coils and uncoils, its focus sharpens and softens, like the systolic and diastolic beat of the heart. It is out of this dynamic change of perspective that a good new work arises." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Is it really true that a person without a Ph.D., who is not working at one of the major research centers, no longer has any chance of contributing to the advancement of science? Or is this just one of those largely unconscious efforts at mystification to which all successful institutions inevitably succumb? It is difficult to answer these questions, partly because what constitutes 'science' is of course defined by those very institutions that are in line to benefit from their monopoly. There" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Cicero once wrote that to be completely free one must become a slave to a set of laws. In other words, accepting limitations is liberating. For example, by making up one's mind to invest psychic energy exclusively in a monogamous marriage, regardless of any problems, obstacles, or more attractive options that may come along later, one is freed of the constant pressure of trying to maximize emotional returns. Having made the commitment that an old-fashioned marriage demands, and having made it willingly instead of being compelled by tradition, a person no longer needs to worry whether she has made the right choice, or whether the grass might be greener somewhere else. As a result a great deal of energy gets freed up for living, instead of being spent on wondering about how to live." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"You could say that I worked every minute of my life, or you could say with equal justice that I never worked a day." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"A person can feel pleasure without any effort, if the appropriate centers in his brain are electrically stimulated, or as a result of the chemical stimulation of drugs. But it is impossible to enjoy a tennis game, a book, or a conversation unless attention is fully concentrated on the activity." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Dante recognized that every system of spiritual order, when it becomes incorporated into a worldly structure like an organized church, begins to suffer the effects of entropy. So to extract meaning from a system of beliefs a person must first compare the information contained in it with his or her concrete experience, retain what makes sense, and then reject the rest." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The optimal state of inner experience is one in which there is order in consciousness. This happens when psychic energy—or attention—is invested in realistic goals, and when skills match the opportunities for action" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Strand sees his main skill as just paying attention to the textures and rhythms of life, being receptive to the multifaceted, constantly changing yet ever recurring stream of experiences. The secret of saying something new is to be patient. If one reacts too quickly, it is likely that the reaction will be superficial, a cliché. 'Keep your eyes and ears open,' he says, 'and your mouth shut. For as long as possible.' Yet life is short, so patience is painful to the poet. Poetry is about slowing down, I think. It's about reading the same thing again and again, really savoring it, living inside the poem. There's no rush to find out what happens in a poem. It's really about feeling one syllable rubbing against another, one word giving way to another, and sensing the justice of that relationship between one word, the next, the next, the next." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The foremost reason that happiness is so hard to achieve is that the universe was not designed with the comfort of human beings in mind. It is almost immeasurably huge, and most of it is hostilely empty and cold. It is the setting for great violence, as when occasionally a star explodes, turning to ashes everything within billions of miles. The rare planet whose gravity field would not crush our bones is probably swimming in lethal gases. Even planet Earth, which can be so idyllic and picturesque, is not to be taken for granted. To survive on it men and women have had to struggle for millions of years against ice, fire, floods, wild animals, and invisible microorganisms that appear out of nowhere to snuff us out." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"For several years the researchers did not let anyone else in on their work, not because they were afraid it would be stolen, but because they were afraid that their colleagues would laugh at their seemingly crazy ideas." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"If I had to express in one word what makes the creative personality different from others, it would be complexity. Like the color white that includes all the hues in the spectrum, they tend to bring together the entire range of human possibilities within themselves." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Activity and reflection should ideally complement and support each other. Action by itself is blind, reflection impotent. Before investing great amounts of energy in a goal, it pays to raise the fundamental questions: Is this something I really want to do? Is it something I enjoy doing? Am I likely to enjoy it in the foreseeable future? Is the price that I—and others—will have to pay worth it? Will I be able to live with myself if I accomplish it? These" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Among the many intellectual pursuits available, reading is currently perhaps the most often mentioned flow activity around the world. Solving" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Someone who is in harmony no matter what he does, no matter what is happening to him, knows that his psychic energy is not being wasted on doubt, regret, guilt, and fear, but is always usefully employed." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"In flow a person is challenged to do her best, and must constantly improve her skills. At the time, she doesn't have the opportunity to reflect on what this means in terms of the self—if she did allow herself to become self-conscious, the experience could not have been very deep. But afterward, when the activity is over and self-consciousness has a chance to resume, the self that the person reflects upon is not the same self that existed before the flow experience: it is now enriched by new skills and fresh achievements." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"All too often those who extol most loudly the virtues of selflessness turn out to be motivated by greed and ambition." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Creative individuals are remarkable for their ability to adapt to almost any situation and to make do with whatever is at hand to reach their goals." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Creative people are constantly surprised. They don't assume that they understand what is happening around them, and they don't assume that anybody else does either. They question the obvious—not out of contrariness but because they see the shortcomings of accepted explanations before the rest of us do. They sense problems before they are generally perceived and are able to define what they are." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"I am fooling around not doing anything, which probably means that this is a creative period, although of course you don't know until afterward. I think that it is very important to be idle. I mean, they always say that Shakespeare was idle between plays. I am not comparing myself to Shakespeare, but people who keep themselves busy all of the time are generally not creative. So I am not ashamed of being idle." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"For Mark Strand, the poet's responsibility to be a witness, a recorder of experience, is part of the broader responsibility we all have for keeping the universe ordered through our consciousness:" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"unless a person learns to set goals and to recognize and gauge feedback in such activities, she will not enjoy them." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The gods of the Greeks were like helpless children compared to humankind today and the powers we now wield." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"it is never a waste to write for intrinsic reasons. First of all, writing gives the mind a disciplined means of expression." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"When people are asked to choose from a list the best description of how they feel when doing whatever they enjoy doing most—reading, climbing mountains, playing chess, whatever—the answer most frequently chosen is 'designing or discovering something new." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"As long as one strives to become a gourmet or a connoisseur of wines because it is the 'in' thing to do, striving to master an externally imposed challenge, then taste may easily turn sour. But a cultivated palate provides many opportunities for flow if one approaches eating—and cooking—in a spirit of adventure and curiosity, exploring the potentials of food for the sake of the experience rather than as a showcase for one's expertise." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"In less well-ordered families a great deal of energy is expended in constant negotiations and strife, and in the children's attempts to protect their fragile selves from being overwhelmed by other people's goals." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"A less drastic obstacle to experiencing flow is excessive self-consciousness. A person who is constantly worried about how others will perceive her, who is afraid of creating the wrong impression, or of doing something inappropriate, is also condemned to permanent exclusion from enjoyment. So are people who are excessively self-centered. A self-centered individual is usually not self-conscious, but instead evaluates every bit of information only in terms of how it relates to her desires. For such a person everything is valueless in itself. A flower is not worth a second look unless it can be used; a man or a woman who cannot advance one's interests does not deserve further attention. Consciousness is structured entirely in terms of its own ends, and nothing is allowed to exist in it that does not conform to those ends." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"civilization is built on the repression of individual desires. It would be impossible to maintain any kind of social order, any complex division of labor, unless society's members were forced to take on the habits and skills that the culture required, whether the individuals liked it or not. Socialization," -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Первый историк Запада, грек Геродот, описал в «Персидских войнах», как три тысячи лет назад Атис, царь Лидии в Малой Азии, ввел игры с мячом, чтобы отвлечь своих подданных, когда в результате нескольких неурожаев начались волнения среди голодного населения. Он писал: «План противостояния голоду состоял в том, что один день они полностью посвящали играм, чтобы не думать о еде, а на следующий день они ели и не занимались играми. Таким образом, они провели восемнадцать лет»." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Щоб знайти мету в стражданнях, людина мусить інтерпретувати їх як виклик, із яким можна впоратись" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"As long as we obey the socially conditioned stimulus-response patterns that exploit our biological inclinations, we are controlled from the outside." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Flow' is the way people describe their state of mind when consciousness is harmoniously ordered, and they want to pursue whatever they are doing for its own sake. In reviewing some of the activities that consistently produce flow—such as sports, games, art, and hobbies—it becomes easier to understand what makes people happy." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"When left alone, the typical teenager begins to wonder: 'What is my girlfriend doing now? Am I getting zits? Will I get to finish the math assignment on time? Are those dudes I had a fight with yesterday going to beat me up?' In other words, with nothing to do, the mind is unable to prevent negative thoughts from elbowing their way to center stage. And unless one learns to control consciousness, the same situation confronts adults. Worries about one's love life, health, investments, family, and job are always hovering at the periphery of attention, waiting until there is nothing pressing that demands concentration. As soon as the mind is ready to relax, zap! the potential problems that were waiting in the wings take over." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"If Diogenes with his lantern twenty-three centuries ago had difficulty finding an honest man, today he would have perhaps an even more troublesome time finding a happy one." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The wealth of options we face today has extended personal freedom to an extent that would have been inconceivable even a hundred years ago. But the inevitable consequence of equally attractive choices is uncertainty of purpose; uncertainty, in turn, saps resolution, and lack of resolve ends up devaluing choice. Therefore freedom does not necessarily help develop meaning in life—on the contrary. If the rules of a game become too flexible, concentration flags, and it is more difficult to attain a flow experience. Commitment to a goal and to the rules it entails is much easier when the choices are few and clear." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Hobbies that demand skill, habits that set goals and limits, personal interests, and especially inner discipline help to make leisure what it is supposed to be—a chance for re-creation." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Even pain is better than the chaos that seeps into an unfocused mind. Hurting oneself, whether physically or emotionally, ensures that attention can be focused on something that, although painful, is at least controllable—since we are the ones causing it." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Subjective experience is not just one of the dimensions of life, it is life itself." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Achieving this unity with one's surroundings is not only an important component of enjoyable flow experiences but is also a central mechanism by which adversity is conquered. In the first place, when attention is focused away from the self, frustrations of one's desires have less of a chance to disrupt consciousness. To experience psychic entropy one must concentrate on the internal disorder; but by paying attention to what is happening around oneself instead, the destructive effects of stress are lessened." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"When I see works that come close to my heart, that I think are really fine, I have the strangest reaction: which is not always exhilarating, it is sort of like being hit in the stomach. Feeling a little nauseous. It's just this sort of completely overwhelming feeling, which then I have to grope my way out of, calm myself down, and try to approach it scientifically, not with all my antennae vulnerable, open…. What comes to you after looking at it calmly, after you've really digested every nuance and every little thread, is the total impact. When you encounter a very great work of art, you just know it and it thrills you in all your senses, not just visually, but sensually and intellectually." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"As Democritus said so simply many centuries ago: 'Water can be both good and bad, useful and dangerous. To the danger, however, a remedy has been found: learning to swim." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Bertrand Russell, uno de los más grandes filósofos de nuestro siglo, describe cómo logró la felicidad personal: «gradualmente aprendí a ser indiferente a mi yo y mis deficiencias; centré mi atención cada vez más sobre los objetos externos: el estado del mundo, las diversas ramas del conocimiento, los individuos hacia quienes sentía afecto»." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"There is a consensus among psychologists who study such subjects that people develop their concept of who they are, and of what they want to achieve in life, according to a sequence of steps. Each man or woman starts with a need to preserve the self, to keep the body and its basic goals from disintegrating. At this point the meaning of life is simple; it is tantamount to survival, comfort, and pleasure. When the safety of the physical self is no longer in doubt, the person may expand the horizon of his or her meaning system to embrace the values of a community—the family, the neighborhood, a religious or ethnic group. This step leads to a greater complexity of the self, even though it usually implies conformity to conventional norms and standards. The next step in development involves reflective individualism. The person again turns inward, finding new grounds for authority and value within the self. He or she is no longer blindly conforming, but develops an autonomous conscience. At this point the main goal in life becomes the desire for growth, improvement, the actualization of potential. The fourth step, which builds on all the previous ones, is a final turning away from the self, back toward an integration with other people and with universal values. In this final stage the extremely individualized person—like Siddhartha letting the river take control of his boat—willingly merges his interests with those of a larger whole. In" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Contrary to what we usually believe, moments like these, the best moments in our lives, are not the passive, receptive, relaxing times—although such experiences can also be enjoyable, if we have worked hard to attain them. The best moments usually occur when a person's body or mind is stretched to its limits in a voluntary effort to accomplish something difficult and worthwhile. Optimal experience is thus something that we make happen." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Now in his nineties, Spock is writing a book on spirituality. But his understanding of spirituality is a far cry from that of institutionalized religions: Spirituality, unfortunately, is not a stylish word. It's not a word that gets used. That's because we're such an unspiritual country that we think of it as somewhat corny to talk about spirituality. 'What is that?' people say. Spirituality, to me, means the nonmaterial things. I don't want to give the idea that it's something mystical; I want it to apply to ordinary people's ordinary lives: things like love, and helpfulness, and tolerance, and enjoyment of the arts or even creativity in the arts. I think that creativity in the arts is very special. It takes a high degree and a high type of spirituality to want to express things in terms of literature or poetry, plays, architecture, gardens, creating beauty any way. And if you can't create beauty, at least it's good to appreciate beauty and get some enjoyment and inspiration out of it. So it's just things that aren't totally materialistic. And that would include religion." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"As many a thinker since Aristotle has said, everything we do is ultimately aimed at experiencing happiness. We don't really want wealth, or health, or fame as such-we want these thingsbecause we hope that they will make us happy. But happiness we seek not because it will get us something else, but for its own sake." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"For the first few hundred years of American history, food preparation was generally approached in a no-nonsense manner. Even as late as twenty-five years ago, the general attitude was that 'feeding your face' was all right, but to make too much fuss about it was somehow decadent. In the past two decades, of course, the trend has reversed itself so sharply that earlier misgivings about gastronomic excesses seem almost to have been justified. Now we have 'foodies' and wine freaks who take the pleasures of the palate as seriously as if they were rites in a brand-new religion. Gourmet" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Using this scheme, it can be said that games offer opportunities to go beyond the boundaries of ordinary experience in four different ways. In agonistic games, the participant must stretch her skills to meet the challenge provided by the skills of the opponents. The roots of the word 'compete' are the Latin con petire, which meant 'to seek together.' What each person seeks is to actualize her potential, and this task is made easier when others force us to do our best." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"the life of average people, we find the other side of the glittering coin of gregariousness: the most painful events are also those that involve relationships. Unfair bosses and rude customers make us unhappy on the job. At home an uncaring spouse, an ungrateful child, and interfering in-laws are the prime sources of the blues. How is it possible to reconcile the fact that people cause both the best and the worst times?" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Within the individual life span as well, each person becomes exposed with age to increasingly contradictory goals, to incompatible opportunities for action. A child's options are usually few and coherent; with each year, they become less so. The earlier clarity that made spontaneous flow possible is obscured by a cacophony of disparate values, beliefs, choices, and behaviors. Few" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"But one cannot rely solely on games and art to improve the quality of life. To achieve control over what happens in the mind, one can draw upon an almost infinite range of opportunities for enjoyment—for instance, through the use of physical and sensory skills ranging from athletics to music to Yoga (chapter 5), or through the development of symbolic skills such as poetry, philosophy, or mathematics" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"While interacting with television, the mind is protected from personal worries. The information passing across the screen keeps unpleasant concerns out of the mind. Of course, avoiding depression this way is rather spendthrift, because one expends a great deal of attention without having much to show for it afterward. More drastic ways of coping with the dread of solitude include the regular use of drugs, or the recourse to obsessive practices, which may range from cleaning the house incessantly to compulsive sexual behavior. While" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Criminals often say things such as, 'If you showed me something I can do that's as much fun as breaking into a house at night, and lifting the jewelry without waking anyone up, I would do it.' Much of what we label juvenile delinquency—car theft, vandalism, rowdy behavior in general—is motivated by the same need to have flow experiences not available in ordinary life. As long as a significant segment of society has few opportunities to encounter meaningful challenges, and few chances to develop the skills necessary to benefit from them, we must expect that violence and crime will attract those who cannot find their way to more complex autotelic experiences. This" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Any activity that transforms the way we perceive reality is enjoyable, a fact that accounts for the attraction of 'consciousness-expanding' drugs of all sorts, from magic mushrooms to alcohol to the current Pandora's box of hallucinogenic chemicals. But consciousness cannot be expanded; all we can do is shuffle its content, which gives us the impression of having broadened it somehow. The price of most artificially induced alterations, however, is that we lose control over that very consciousness we were supposed to expand." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"In an integrated family, each person's goals matter to all others. In" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"It's exhilarating to come closer and closer to self-discipline. You make your body go and everything hurts; then you look back in awe at the self, at what you've done, it just blows your mind. It leads to ecstasy, to self-fulfillment. If you win these battles enough, that battle against yourself, at least for a moment, it becomes easier to win the battles in the world." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Only direct control of experience, the ability to derive moment-by-moment enjoyment from everything we do, can overcome the obstacles to fulfillment." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"What is the meaning of life?' turns out to be astonishingly simple. The meaning of life is meaning: whatever it is, wherever it comes from, a unified purpose is what gives meaning to life. The" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Such experiences are not necessarily pleasant at the time they occur. The swimmer's muscles might have ached during his most memorable race, his lungs might have felt like exploding, and he might have been dizzy with fatigue—yet these could have been the best moments of his life." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Freud was still alive when his quest for liberating the ego from its oppressors was turned into a staid ideology and a rigidly regulated profession. Marx was even less fortunate: his attempts to free consciousness from the tyranny of economic exploitation were soon turned into a system of repression that would have boggled the poor founder's mind. And as Dostoevsky among many others observed, if Christ had returned to preach his message of liberation in the Middle Ages, he would have been crucified again and again by the leaders of that very church whose worldly power was built on his name." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Enjoyment appears at the boundary between boredom and anxiety, when the challenges are just balanced with the person's capacity to act." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Because optimal experience depends on the ability to control what happens in consciousness moment by moment, each person has to achieve it on the basis of his own individual efforts and creativity." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"One of the most important tools in this quest is provided by psychology. Up to now the main contribution of this fledgling science has been to discover how past events shed light on present behavior. It has made us aware that adult irrationality is often the result of childhood frustrations. But there is another way that the discipline of psychology can be put to use. It is in helping answer the question: Given that we are who we are, with whatever hang-ups and repressions, what can we do to improve our future? To overcome the anxieties and depressions of contemporary life, individuals must become independent of the social environment to the degree that they no longer respond exclusively in terms of its rewards and punishments. To achieve such autonomy, a person has to learn to provide rewards to herself. She has to develop the ability to find enjoyment and purpose regardless of external circumstances. This challenge is both easier and more difficult than it sounds: easier because the ability to do so is entirely within each person's hands; difficult because it requires a discipline and perseverance that are relatively rare in any era, and perhaps especially in the present. And before all else, achieving control over experience requires a drastic change in attitude about what is important and what is not." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The body is like a probe full of sensitive devices that tries to obtain what information it can from the awesome reaches of space." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Such individuals lead vigorous lives, are open to a variety of experiences, keep on learning until the day they die, and have strong ties and commitments to other people and to the environment in which they live. They enjoy whatever they do, even if tedious or difficult; they are hardly ever bored, and they can take in stride anything that comes their way. Perhaps their greatest strength is that they are in control of their lives." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"what drove me on to be my own boss was that the thing that I wanted most was to be able to have a nap every day" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"But the point is still valid: human relations are malleable, and if a person has the appropriate skills their rules can be transformed. But" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The function of consciousness is to represent information about what is happening outside and inside the organism in such a way that it can be evaluated and acted upon by the body. In this sense, it functions as a clearinghouse for sensations, perceptions, feelings, and ideas, establishing priorities among all the diverse information. Without consciousness we would still 'know' what is going on, but we would have to react to it in a reflexive, instinctive way. With consciousness, we can deliberately weigh what the senses tell us, and respond accordingly. And we can also invent information that did not exist before: it is because we have consciousness that we can daydream, make up lies, and write beautiful poems and scientific theories." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"but make the self grow? To fill free time with activities that require concentration, that increase skills, that lead to a development of the self, is not the same as killing time by watching" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"When do we get to the interesting part—the tortured souls, the impossible dreams, the agony and the ecstasy of creation?" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"So to extract meaning from a system of beliefs a person must first compare the information contained in it with his or her concrete experience, retain what makes sense, and then reject the rest." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"according to the Greek philosophers, that we become truly human by devoting time to self-development-to learning, to the arts, to political activity. In fact the Greek term for leisure, scholea, is the root from which our word ""school"" comes from, since the idea was that the best use for leisure was to study." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"It's exhilarating to come closer and closer to self-discipline. You make your body go and everything hurts; then you look back in awe at the self, at what you've done, it just blows your mind. It leads to ecstasy, to self-fulfillment. If you win these battles enough, that battle against yourself, at least for a moment, it becomes easier to win the battles in the world" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Viktor Frankl, the Austrian psychologist, summarized it beautifully in the preface to his book Man's Search for Meaning: 'Don't aim at success—the more you aim at it and make it a target, the more you are going to miss it. For success, like happiness, cannot be pursued; it must ensue…as the unintended side-effect of one's personal dedication to a course greater than oneself." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"We create ourselves by how we invest this energy. Memories, thoughts, and feelings are all shaped by how we use it. And it is an energy under our control, to do with as we please; hence, attention is our most important tool in the task of improving the quality of experience." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Action by itself is blind, reflection impotent." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Only through freely chosen discipline can life be enjoyed, and still kept within the bounds of reason. If a person learns to control his instinctual desires, not because he has to, but because he wants to, he can enjoy himself without becoming addicted. A" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"To the extent that a glamorous ad makes us salivate for the product sold or that a frown from the boss spoils the day, we are not free to determine the content of experience. Since what we experience is reality, as far as we are concerned, we can transform reality to the extent that we influence what happens in consciousness and thus free ourselves from the threats and blandishments of the outside world. 'Men are not afraid of things, but of how they view them,' said Epictetus a long time ago. And the great emperor Marcus Aurelius wrote: 'If you are pained by external things, it is not they that disturb you, but your own judgment of them. And it is in your power to wipe out that judgment now." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The optimal state of inner experience is one in which there is order in consciousness. This happens when psychic energy—or attention—is invested in realistic goals, and when skills match the opportunities for action. The pursuit of a goal brings order in awareness because a person must concentrate attention on the task at hand and momentarily forget everything else. These periods of struggling to overcome challenges are what people find to be the most enjoyable times of their lives (chapter 3)." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"At certain times in history cultures have taken it for granted that a person wasn't fully human unless he or she learned to master thoughts and feelings." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Instead of accepting the unity of purpose provided by genetic instructions or by the rules of society, the challenge for us is to create harmony based on reason and choice." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"For hundreds of years these religions provided satisfying goals for people to spend their lives pursuing. But today it is more difficult to accept their worldviews as definitive. The form in which religions have presented their truths—myths, revelations, holy texts—no longer compels belief in an era of scientific rationality, even though the substance of the truths may have remained unchanged. A vital new religion may one day arise again. In the meantime, those who seek consolation in existing churches often pay for their peace of mind with a tacit agreement to ignore a great deal of what is known about the way the world works." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Over a lifetime of seventy years, and counting sixteen hours of waking time each day, this amounts to about 185 billion bits of information. It is out of this total that everything in our life must come—every thought, memory, feeling, or action. It seems like a huge amount, but in reality it does not go that far." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"at the height of the Romantic period, an artist who was not more than a little savage and mad would not have been taken very seriously, because these qualities were de rigueur for creative souls." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"joyful life is an individual creation that cannot be copied from a recipe." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"It stands to reason, however, that a child who has been abused, or who has been often threatened with the withdrawal of parental love—and unfortunately we are becoming increasingly aware of what a disturbing proportion of children in our culture are so mistreated—will be so worried about keeping his sense of self from coming apart as to have little energy left to pursue intrinsic rewards." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"in flow there is no need to reflect, because the action carries us forward as if by magic." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"optimal experience based on the concept of flow—the state in which people are so involved in an activity that nothing else seems to matter; the experience itself is so enjoyable that people will do it even at great cost, for the sheer sake of doing" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"But consciousness cannot be expanded; all we can do is shuffle its content, which gives us the impression of having broadened it somehow. The price of most artificially induced alterations, however, is that we lose control over that very consciousness we were supposed to expand. Mimicry" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"mientras que la humanidad ha incrementado colectivamente sus poderes materiales cientos de veces, no ha avanzado mucho en términos de mejorar el contenido de su experiencia." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"For the majority of people on this earth, life goals are simple: to survive, to leave children who will in turn survive, and, if possible, to do so with a certain amount of comfort and dignity." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The task is to learn how to enjoy everyday life without diminishing other people's chances to enjoy theirs." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"But a cultivated palate provides many opportunities for flow if one approaches eating—and cooking—in a spirit of adventure and curiosity, exploring the potentials of food for the sake of the experience rather than as a showcase for one's expertise. The" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The family context promoting optimal experience could be described as having five characteristics. The first one is clarity: the teenagers feel that they know what their parents expect from them—goals and feedback in the family interaction are unambiguous. The second is centering, or the children's perception that their parents are interested in what they are doing in the present, in their concrete feelings and experiences, rather than being preoccupied with whether they will be getting into a good college or obtaining a well-paying job. Next is the issue of choice: children feel that they have a variety of possibilities from which to choose, including that of breaking parental rules—as long as they are prepared to face the consequences. The fourth differentiating characteristic is commitment, or the trust that allows the child to feel comfortable enough to set aside the shield of his defenses, and become unselfconsciously involved in whatever he is interested in. And finally there is challenge, or the parents' dedication to provide increasingly complex opportunities for action to their children." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Thoughts have to follow each other, or they get jumbled. While we are thinking about a problem we cannot truly experience either happiness or sadness. We cannot run, sing, and balance the checkbook simultaneously, because each one of these activities exhausts most of our capacity for attention." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"La tarea consiste en aprender a disfrutar de la vida cotidiana sin disminuir las oportunidades de las demás personas para que disfruten con las suyas." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"«el más alto bien, que llamaba alegría, y frecuentemente confianza, es una mente desprovista de temor». En otras palabras, disfrutó de la vida porque había aprendido a controlar su conciencia. Demócrito no fue ni el primer ni el último pensador que se perdió en el flujo de la mente. Frecuentemente" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Esta paradoja de las expectativas en alza sugiere que mejorar la calidad de vida es una tarea inacabable." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The 'battle' is not really against the self, but against the entropy that brings disorder to consciousness. It is really a battle for the self; it is a struggle for establishing control over attention." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"it seems clear that if you are an extrovert, have strong self-esteem, and look at the world with optimism, you will have a better chance of becoming successful and leading a satisfying life." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The point of becoming an amateur scientist is not to compete with professionals on their own turf, but to use a symbolic discipline to extend mental skills, and to create order in consciousness. On that level, amateur scholarship can hold its own, and can be even more effective than its professional counterpart. But the moment that amateurs lose sight of this goal, and use knowledge mainly to bolster their egos or to achieve a material advantage, then they become caricatures of the scholar. Without training in the discipline of skepticism and reciprocal criticism that underlies the scientific method, laypersons who venture into the fields of knowledge with prejudiced goals can become more ruthless, more egregiously unconcerned with truth, than even the most corrupt scholar." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Such experiences are not necessarily pleasant at the time they occur. The swimmer's muscles might have ached during his most memorable race, his lungs might have felt like exploding, and he might have been dizzy with fatigue—yet these could have been the best moments of his life. Getting control of life is never easy, and sometimes it can be definitely painful. But in the long run optimal experiences add up to a sense of mastery—or perhaps better, a sense of participation in determining the content of life—that comes as close to what is usually meant by happiness as anything else we can conceivably imagine." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Although average Americans have plenty of free time, and ample access to leisure activities, they do not, as a result, experience flow often. Potentiality does not imply actuality, and quantity does not translate into quality." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The lack of inner order manifests itself in the subjective condition that some call ontological anxiety, or existential dread. Basically, it is a fear of being, a feeling that there is no meaning to life and that existence is not worth going on with." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"What matters is not what he has now, but what he might obtain if he does as others want him to do. Caught in the treadmill of social controls, that person keeps reaching for a prize that always dissolves in his hands." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"We have come to accept that our morality simply no longer has currency outside our own culture." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Energy is power, but power is only a means. The goals to which it is applied can make life either richer or more painful." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The strategy consists in extracting from the order achieved by past generations patterns that will help avoid disorder in one's own mind. There is much knowledge—or well-ordered information—accumulated in culture, ready for this use. Great music, architecture, art, poetry, drama, dance, philosophy, and religion are there for anyone to see as examples of how harmony can be imposed on chaos. Yet so many people ignore them, expecting to create meaning in their lives by their own devices." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Getting control of life is never easy, and sometimes it can be definitely painful. But in the long run optimal experiences add up to a sense of mastery—or perhaps better, a sense of participation in determining the content of life—that comes as close to what is usually meant by happiness as anything else we can conceivably imagine." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"In the roughly one-third of the day that is free of obligations, in their precious 'leisure' time, most people in fact seem to use their minds as little as possible. The largest part of free time—almost half of it for American adults—is spent in front of the television set. The plots and characters of the popular shows are so repetitive that although watching TV requires the processing of visual images, very little else in the way of memory, thinking, or volition is required. Not surprisingly, people report some of the lowest levels of concentration, use of skills, clarity of thought, and feelings of potency when watching television. The other leisure activities people usually do at home are only a little more demanding. Reading most newspapers and magazines, talking to other people, and gazing out the window also involve processing very little new information, and thus require little concentration." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Unless consumed in highly skilled ritual contexts, as is practiced in many traditional societies, what drugs in fact do is reduce our perception of both what can be accomplished and what we as individuals are able to accomplish, until the two are in balance. This" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"To gain personal control over the quality of experience, however, one needs to learn how to build enjoyment into what happens day in, day out." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The reader interested in knowing what works I base my assertions on can turn to the notes section beginning and, by looking under the reference," -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"To improve life one must improve the quality of experience." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Again, the importance of personally taking control of the direction of learning from the very first steps cannot be stressed enough. If a person feels coerced to read a certain book, to follow a given course because that is supposed to be the way to do it, learning will go against the grain. But if the decision is to take that same route because of an inner feeling of rightness, the learning will be relatively effortless and enjoyable." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Счастье и удовольствие — это разные вещи, и в этом Чиксентмихайи повторяет откровения многих выдающихся философов, начиная от Аристотеля и кончая Николаем Бердяевым и Виктором Франклом. Но не просто повторяет, а выстраивает детальную, стройную и экспериментально подтвержденную теорию, в центре которой находится идея «аутотелических переживаний» или, попросту говоря, переживаний потока. Это состояние полного слияния со своим делом, поглощения им, когда не ощущаешь времени, самого себя, когда вместо усталости возникает постоянный прилив энергии…" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Enjoyment is characterized by this forward movement: by a sense of novelty, of accomplishment" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Those who know how to transform a hopeless situation into a new flow activity that can be controlled will be able to enjoy themselves, and emerge stronger from the ordeal." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"They disregard the quality of immediate experience, and base their motivation instead on the strongly rooted cultural stereotype of what work is supposed to be like." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"As our studies have suggested, the phenomenology of enjoyment has eight major components. When people reflect on how it feels when their experience is most positive, they mention at least one, and often all, of the following. First, the experience usually occurs when we confront tasks we have a chance of completing. Second, we must be able to concentrate on what we are doing. Third and fourth, the concentration is usually possible because the task undertaken has clear goals and provides immediate feedback. Fifth, one acts with a deep but effortless involvement that removes from awareness the worries and frustrations of everyday life. Sixth, enjoyable experiences allow people to exercise a sense of control over their actions. Seventh, concern for the self disappears, yet paradoxically the sense of self emerges stronger after the flow experience is over. Finally, the sense of the duration of time is altered; hours pass by in minutes, and minutes can stretch out to seem like hours. The combination of all these elements causes a sense of deep enjoyment that is so rewarding people feel that expending a great deal of energy is worthwhile simply to be able to feel it." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"When a person is able to organize his or her consciousness so as to experience flow as often as possible, the quality of life is inevitably going to improve, because, as in the case of Rico and Pam, even the usually boring routines of work become purposeful and enjoyable. In flow we are in control of our psychic energy, and everything we do adds order to consciousness." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"True, most married men are convinced that their lives are dedicated to the family, and from a material standpoint this might be true. But it takes more than food in the fridge and two cars in the garage to keep a family going." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The tremendous leisure industry that has arisen in the last few generations has been designed to help fill free time with enjoyable experiences. Nevertheless, instead of using our physical and mental resources to experience flow, most of us spend many hours each week watching celebrated athletes playing in enormous stadiums. Instead of making music, we listen to platinum records cut by millionaire musicians. Instead of making art, we go to admire paintings that brought in the highest bids at the latest auction. We do not run risks acting on our beliefs, but occupy hours each day watching actors who pretend to have adventures, engaged in mock-meaningful action. This vicarious participation is able to mask, at least temporarily, the underlying emptiness of wasted time. But it is a very pale substitute for attention invested in real challenges. The flow experience that results from the use of skills leads to growth; passive entertainment leads nowhere. Collectively we are wasting each year the equivalent of millions of years of human consciousness. The energy that could be used to focus on complex goals, to provide for enjoyable growth, is squandered on patterns of stimulation that only mimic reality. Mass leisure, mass culture, and even high culture when only attended to passively and for extrinsic reasons—such as the wish to flaunt one's status—are parasites of the mind. They absorb psychic energy without providing substantive strength in return. They leave us more exhausted, more disheartened than we were before. Unless a person takes charge of them, both work and free time are likely to be disappointing. Most jobs and many leisure activities—especially those involving the passive consumption of mass media—are not designed to make us happy and strong. Their purpose is to make money for someone else. If we allow them to, they can suck out the marrow of our lives, leaving only feeble husks. But like everything else, work and leisure can be appropriated for our needs. People who learn to enjoy their work, who do not waste their free time, end up feeling that their lives as a whole have become much more worthwhile. 'The future,' wrote C. K. Brightbill, 'will belong not only to the educated man, but to the man who is educated to use his leisure wisely." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Much of what we label juvenile delinquency—car theft, vandalism, rowdy behavior in general—is motivated by the same need to have flow experiences not available in ordinary life. As long as a significant segment of society has few opportunities to encounter meaningful challenges, and few chances to develop the skills necessary to benefit from them, we must expect that violence and crime will attract those who cannot find their way to more complex autotelic experiences." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Work not only transforms the environment by building bridges across rivers and cultivating barren plains; it also transforms the worker from an animal guided by instincts into a conscious, goal-directed, skillful person." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The price one pays for changing goals whenever opposition threatens is that while one may achieve a more pleasant and comfortable life, it is likely that it will end up empty and void of meaning." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"many leisure activities—especially those involving the passive consumption of mass media—are not designed to make us happy and strong. Their purpose is to make money for someone else." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The task of the next decades and centuries is to realize this[...] Just as we have learned to separate ourselves from each other and from the environment, we now need to learn how to reunite ourselves with other entities around us without losing our hard-won individuality. The most promising faith for the future might be based on the realization that the entire universe is a system related by common laws and that it makes no sense to impose our dreams and desires on nature without taking them into account. Recognizing the limitations of human will, accepting a cooperative rather than a ruling role in the universe, we should feel the relief of the exile who is finally returning home. The problem of meaning will then be resolved as the individual's purpose merges with the universal flow." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Often we feel a sense of transcendence, as if the boundaries of the self had been expanded. The sailor feels at one with the boat, the wind, and the sea;" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Don't aim at success—the more you aim at it and make it a target, the more you are going to miss it. For success, like happiness, cannot be pursued; it must ensue…as the unintended side-effect of one's personal dedication to a course greater than oneself." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Pleasure is an important component of the quality of life, but by itself it does not bring happiness." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Pleasure is a feeling of contentment that one achieves whenever information in consciousness says that expectations set by biological programs or by social conditioning have been met. The" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"How can it help a person learn to rid himself of anxieties and fears and thus become free of the controls of society, whose rewards he can now take or leave? As suggested before, the way is through control over consciousness, which in turn leads to control over the quality of experience. Any small gain in that direction will make life more rich, more enjoyable, more meaningful." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Instead of feeling oppressed by the necessity to work hard, they share the opinion of Giuliana B., a seventy-four-year-old lady: 'I am free, free in my work, because I do whatever I want. If I don't do something today I will do it tomorrow. I don't have a boss, I am the boss of my own life. I have kept my freedom and I have fought for my freedom." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"As Democritus said so simply many centuries ago: 'Water can be both good and bad, useful and dangerous. To the danger, however, a remedy has been found: learning to swim.' To swim in this case involves learning to distinguish the useful and the harmful forms of flow, and then making the most of the former while placing limits on the latter. The task is to learn how to enjoy everyday life without diminishing other people's chances to enjoy theirs." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Every relationship requires a reorienting of attention, a repositioning of goals." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The term 'autotelic' derives from two Greek words, auto meaning self, and telos meaning goal. It refers to a self-contained activity, one that is done not with the expectation of some future benefit, but simply because the doing itself is the reward." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"If being alone is seen as a chance to accomplish goals that cannot be reached in the company of others, then instead of feeling lonely, a person will enjoy solitude and might be able to learn new skills in the process. On the other hand, if solitude is seen as a condition to be avoided at all costs instead of as a challenge, the person will panic and resort to distractions that cannot lead to higher levels of complexity." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"We tried to answer these questions with the Experience Sampling Method (ESM), the procedure I developed at the University of Chicago to study the quality of experience." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"«Nosotros siempre estamos luchando por vivir –solía decir Ralph Waldo Emerson–, pero nunca vivimos.»" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The reason it is possible to achieve such complete involvement in a flow experience is that goals are usually clear, and feedback immediate." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"When people start believing that progress is inevitable and life easy, they may quickly lose courage and determination in the face of the first signs of adversity." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"To improve the quality of life through work, two complementary strategies are necessary. On the one hand jobs should be redesigned so that they resemble as closely as possible flow activities—as do hunting, cottage weaving, and surgery. But it will also be necessary to help people develop autotelic personalities like those of Serafina, Joe, and Ting, by training them to recognize opportunities for action, to hone their skills, to set reachable goals. Neither one of these strategies is likely to make work much more enjoyable by itself; in combination, they should contribute enormously to optimal experience." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Purpose gives direction to one's efforts, but it does not necessarily make life easier. Goals can lead into all sorts of trouble, at which point one gets tempted to give them up and find some less demanding script by which to order one's actions. The price one pays for changing goals whenever opposition threatens is that while one may achieve a more pleasant and comfortable life, it is likely that it will end up empty and void of meaning. The" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Act always as if the future of the Universe depended on what you did, while laughing at yourself for thinking that whatever you do makes any difference." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Repeatedly we question the necessity of our actions, and evaluate critically the reasons for carrying them out." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Each of us has a picture, however vague, of what we would like to accomplish before we die. How close we get to attaining this goal becomes the measure for the quality of our lives. If it remains beyond reach, we grow resentful or resigned; if it is at least in part achieved, we experience a sense of happiness and satisfaction." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Power returns to the person when rewards are no longer relegated to outside forces. It is no longer necessary to struggle for goals that always seem to recede into the future, to end each boring day with the hope that tomorrow, perhaps, something good will happen. Instead of forever straining for the tantalizing prize dangled just out of reach, one begins to harvest the genuine rewards of living." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"It is not the hearing that improves life, it is the listening." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"In the pages that follow we shall review some of the ways that the quality of experience can be improved through the refined use of bodily processes. These include physical activities like sports and dance, the cultivation of sexuality, and the various Eastern disciplines for controlling the mind through the training of the body. They also feature the discriminating use of the senses of sight, hearing, and taste. Each of these modalities offers an almost unlimited amount of enjoyment, but only to persons who work to develop the skills they require. To those who do not, the body remains indeed a lump of rather inexpensive flesh." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"It is precisely because the unknowns are so great and dangerous that we require some manner of faith to choose our path and to give us courage." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Another universally enjoyable activity is being with other people. Socializing might at first sight appear to be an exception to the statement that one needs to use skills to enjoy an activity, for it does not seem that gossiping or joking around with another person requires particular abilities. But of course, it does; as so many shy people know, if a person feels self-conscious, he or she will dread establishing informal contacts, and avoid company whenever possible." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"concepto del flujo, el estado en el cual las personas se hallan tan involucradas en la actividad que nada más parece importarles;" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"No great improvements in the lot of mankind are possible, until a great change takes place in the fundamental constitution of their modes of thought." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"In the heyday of its material splendor, our society is suffering from an astonishing variety of strange ills." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Whether we are happy depends on inner harmony, not on the controls we are able to exert over the great forces of the universe" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Without a consistent set of goals, it is difficult to develop a coherent self. It is through the patterned investment of psychic energy provided by goals that one creates order in experience. This order, which manifests itself in predictable actions, emotions, and choices, in time becomes recognizable as a more or less unique ""self." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"It seems we can manage at most seven bits of information—such as differentiated sounds, or visual stimuli, or recognizable nuances of emotion or thought—at any one time, and that the shortest time it takes to discriminate between one set of bits and another is about 1/18 of a second. By using these figures one concludes that it is possible to process at most 126 bits of information per second, or 7,560 per minute, or almost half a million per hour. Over a lifetime of seventy years, and counting sixteen hours of waking time each day, this amounts to about 185 billion bits of information. It is out of this total that everything in our life must come—every thought, memory, feeling, or action. It" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Each person allocates his or her limited attention either by focusing it intentionally like a beam of energy—as do E. and R. in the previous examples—or by diffusing it in desultory, random movements. The shape and content of life depend on how attention has been used. Entirely different realities will emerge depending on how it is invested." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"incluso estos sucesos maravillosos deben tomar su lugar en la conciencia y deben conectarse positivamente a nuestra personalidad antes de que puedan afectar a nuestra calidad de vida." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"starting point would be to say that one society is 'better' than another if a greater number of its people have access to experiences that are in line with their goals." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"When we choose a goal and invest ourselves in it to the limits of our concentration, whatever we do will be enjoyable. And once we have tasted this joy, we will redouble our efforts to taste it again. This is the way the self grows." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"attention is our most important tool in the task of improving the quality of experience." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"So loss of self-consciousness does not involve a loss of self, and certainly not a loss of consciousness, but rather, only a loss of consciousness of the self. What slips below the threshold of awareness is the concept of self, the information we use to represent to ourselves who we are. And being able to forget temporarily who we are seems to be very enjoyable. When not preoccupied with our selves, we actually have a chance to expand the concept of who we are. Loss of self-consciousness can lead to self-transcendence, to a feeling that the boundaries of our being have been pushed forward." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"When it is no longer clear what is permitted and what is not, when it is uncertain what public opinion values, behavior becomes erratic and meaningless. People who depend on the rules of society to give order to their consciousness become anxious. Anomic situations might arise when the economy collapses, or when one culture is destroyed by another, but they can also come about when prosperity increases rapidly, and old values of thrift and hard work are no longer as relevant as they had been. Alienation" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The fathers of the Church well understood that infatuation with the pleasures of the flesh could easily drain psychic energy away from other goals." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Мы вырастаем в уверенности, что наиболее важные события нашей жизни предстоят нам в будущем. Родители внушают детям, что если они с ранних лет усвоят хорошие привычки, это поможет им в будущем добиться благосостояния. Учителя убеждают студентов, что польза от скучных занятий станет очевидна им после, когда они начнут искать работу. Вице-президент компании советует молодым подчиненным набраться терпения и усердно работать, потому что однажды они получат повышение. И в конце этой долгой, изнурительной борьбы за продвижение нас ждут золотые годы жизни на пенсии. «Мы все время готовимся к жизни, — говаривал философ Ральф Уолдо Эмерсон, — но никогда не живем». Или, как в конце концов выяснил герой одной старой английской сказки, пироги с вареньем всегда бывают завтра, но никогда сегодня." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The same person can meditate in the morning and shut out all sensory experience, and then look at a great work of art in the afternoon; either way he may be transformed by the same sense of exhilaration." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"means that we must constantly reevaluate what we do, lest habits and past wisdom blind us to new possibilities." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The good things which belong to prosperity are to be wished, but the good things that belong to adversity are to be admired." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"the love of fate corresponds to a willingness to accept ownership of one's actions, whether these are spontaneous or imposed from the outside. It is this acceptance that leads to personal growth, and provides the feeling of serene enjoyment which removes the burden of entropy from everyday life." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"This is where the presumed advantage of a contemplative life comes in. Detached reflection upon experience, a realistic weighing of options and their consequences, have long been held to be the best approach to a good life." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"As our studies have suggested, the phenomenology of enjoyment has eight major components. When people reflect on how it feels when their experience is most positive, they mention at least one, and often all, of the following. First, the experience usually occurs when we confront tasks we have a chance of completing. Second, we must be able to concentrate on what we are doing. Third and fourth, the concentration is usually possible because the task undertaken has clear goals and provides immediate feedback. Fifth, one acts with a deep but effortless involvement that removes from awareness the worries and frustrations of everyday life. Sixth, enjoyable experiences allow people to exercise a sense of control over their actions. Seventh, concern for the self disappears, yet paradoxically the sense of self emerges stronger after the flow experience is over. Finally, the sense of the duration of time is altered; hours pass by in minutes, and minutes can stretch out to seem like hours. The combination of all these elements causes a sense of deep enjoyment that is so rewarding people feel that expending a great deal of energy is worthwhile simply to be able to feel it. We" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The autotelic self transforms potentially entropic experience into flow." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Los mejores momentos suelen suceder cuando el cuerpo o la mente de una persona han llegado hasta su límite en un esfuerzo voluntario para conseguir algo difícil y que valiera la pena." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Entropy is the normal state of consciousness—a condition that is neither useful nor enjoyable. To" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"As Freud and many others before and after him have noted, civilization is built on the repression of individual desires." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Don't aim at success—the more you aim at it and make it a target, the more you are going to miss it. For success, like happiness, cannot be pursued; it must ensue . . . as the unintended side-effect of one's personal dedication to a course greater than oneself." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"One can survive solitude, but only if one finds ways of ordering attention that will prevent entropy from destructuring the mind." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"But how enjoyable an activity is depends ultimately on its complexity. The small automatic games woven into the fabric of everyday life help reduce boredom, but add little to the positive quality of experience. For that one needs to face more demanding challenges, and use higher-level skills." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"When the information that keeps coming into awareness is congruent with goals, psychic energy flows effortlessly." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"If I set as my goal to remain alive while sitting on the living-room sofa, I also could spend days knowing that I was achieving it, just as the rock climber does. But this realization would not make me particularly happy, whereas the climber's knowledge brings exhilaration to his dangerous ascent." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Every piece of information we process gets evaluated for its bearing on the self. Does it threaten our goals, does it support them, or is it neutral?" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"But complexity consists of integration as well as differentiation. The task of the next decades and centuries is to realize this under-developed component of the mind. Just as we have learned to separate ourselves from each other and from the environment, we now need to learn how to reunite ourselves with other entities around us without losing our hard-won individuality. The most promising faith for the future might be based on the realization that the entire universe is a system related by common laws and that it makes no sense to impose our dreams and desires on nature without taking them into account. Recognizing the limitations of human will, accepting a cooperative rather than a ruling role in the universe, we should feel the relief of the exile who is finally returning home. The problem of meaning will then be resolved as the individual's purpose merges with the universal flow." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"the shortest time it takes to discriminate between one set of bits and another is about 1/18 of a second. By using these figures one concludes that it is possible to process at most 126 bits of information per second, or 7,560 per minute, or almost half a million per hour. Over a lifetime of seventy years, and counting sixteen hours of waking time each day, this amounts to about 185 billion bits of information. It is out of this total that everything in our life must come—every thought, memory, feeling, or action. It seems like a huge amount, but in reality it does not go that far. The limitation of consciousness is demonstrated by the fact that to understand what another person is saying we must process 40 bits of information each second." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Paradoxically, this sense of humility—the recognition that one's goals may have to be subordinated to a greater entity, and that to succeed one may have to play by a different set of rules from what one would prefer—is a hallmark of strong people." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"This is not to imply that a return to the rigid values and limited choices of the past would be preferable—even if that were a possibility, which it is not. The complexity and freedom that have been thrust upon us, and that our ancestors had fought so hard to achieve, are a challenge we must find ways to master." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"when attention is not focused on a goal, the mind typically begins to be filled with disjointed and depressing thoughts." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"It is a circuitous path that begins with achieving control over the contents of our consciousness." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"one's neighbors, and think about God—if these are the things one has decided are worth pursuing. But it is difficult to accomplish any of them unless one has earlier acquired the habit of using solitude" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Again, the importance of personally taking control of the direction of learning from the very first steps cannot be stressed enough. If a person feels coerced to read a certain book, to follow a given course because that is supposed to be the way to do it, learning will go against the grain. But if the decision is to take that same route because of an inner feeling of rightness, the learning will be relatively effortless and enjoyable. When" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"One might argue here that endorsing Joe's life-style over that of his fellow workers is reprehensibly 'elitist.' After all, the guys in the saloon are having a good time, and who is to say that grubbing away in the backyard making rainbows is a better way to spend one's time? By the tenets of cultural relativism the criticism would be justifiable, of course. But when one understands that enjoyment depends on increasing complexity, it is no longer possible to take such radical relativism seriously. The quality of experience of people who play with and transform the opportunities in their surroundings, as Joe did, is clearly more developed as well as more enjoyable than that of people who resign themselves to live within the constraints of the barren reality they feel they cannot alter." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Competition is enjoyable only when it is a means to perfect one's skills; when it becomes an end in itself, it ceases to be fun. But" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"TWENTY-THREE HUNDRED YEARS AGO Aristotle concluded that, more than anything else, men and women seek happiness. While happiness itself is sought for its own sake, every other goal—health, beauty, money, or power—is valued only because we expect that it will make us happy." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Some people produce more than the usual amount of androgens and therefore become excessively aggressive. Does that mean they should freely express violence? We cannot deny the facts of nature, but we should certainly try to improve on them." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Non self-conscious individualism, or a strongly directed purpose that is not self-seeking. People who have that quality are bent on doing their best in all circumstances, yet they are not concerned primarily with advancing their own interests. Because they are intrinsically motivated in their actions, they are not easily disturbed by external threats. With enough psychic energy free to observe and analyze their surroundings objectively, they have a better chance of discovering in them new opportunities for action." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"in the long run optimal experiences add up to a sense of mastery—or perhaps better, a sense of participation in determining the content of life—" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"I developed a theory of optimal experience based on the concept of flow—the state in which people are so involved in an activity that nothing else seems to matter; the experience itself is so enjoyable that people will do it even at great cost, for the sheer sake of doing it." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"When people restrain themselves out of fear, their lives are by necessity diminished. They" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Fundamentalist religions, mass movements, and extremist political parties also offer opportunities for self-transcendence that millions are eager to accept. They also provide a welcome extension of the boundaries of the self, a feeling that one is involved in something great and powerful. The true believer also becomes part of the system in concrete terms, because his psychic energy will be focused and shaped by the goals and rules of his belief. But the true believer is not really interacting with the belief system; he usually lets his psychic energy be absorbed by it. From this submission nothing new can come; consciousness may attain a welcome order, but it will be an order imposed rather than achieved." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"without concentration, a complex activity breaks down into chaos." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Because attention determines what will or will not appear in consciousness, and because it is also required to make any other mental events — such as remembering, thinking, feeling, and making decisions — happen there, it is useful to think of it as psychic energy. Attention is like energy in that without it no work can be done, and in doing work it is dissipated. We create ourselves by how we invest this energy. Memories, thoughts, and feelings are all shaped by how we use it. And it is an energy under our control, to do with as we please; hence, attention is our most important tool in the task of improving the quality of experience." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"It is within each person's power to decide whether its order will be restored from the outside, in ways over which we have no control, or whether the order will be the result of an internal pattern that grows organically from our skills and knowledge." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"What I 'discovered' was that happiness is not something that happens. It is not the result of good fortune or random chance. It is not something that money can buy or power command. It does not depend on" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"This cultural hubris, or overweening presumption about what we are entitled to from a universe that is basically insensitive to human needs, generally leads to trouble. The unwarranted sense of security sooner or later results in a rude awakening. When people start believing that progress is inevitable and life easy, they may quickly lose courage and determination in the face of the first signs of adversity. As they realize that what they had believed in is not entirely" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"«Si te sientes dolido por las cosas externas, no son éstas las que te molestan, sino tu propio juicio acerca de ellas." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"It seems we can manage at most seven bits of information—such as differentiated sounds, or visual stimuli, or recognizable nuances of emotion or thought—at any one time, and that the shortest time it takes to discriminate between one set of bits and another is about ⅛ of a second. By using these figures one concludes that it is possible to process at most 126 bits of information per second, or 7,560 per minute, or almost half a million per hour. Over a lifetime of seventy years, and counting sixteen hours of waking time each day, this amounts to about 185 billion bits of information. It is out of this total that everything in our life must come—every thought, memory, feeling, or action." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"A person can make himself happy, or miserable, regardless of what is actually happening 'outside,' just by changing the contents of consciousness. We" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"This paradox of rising expectations suggests that improving the quality of life might be an insurmountable task. In fact, there is no inherent problem in our desire to escalate our goals, as long as we enjoy the struggle along the way. The" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"For each person there are thousands of opportunities, challenges to expand ourselves." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"A symbolic system is like a game in that it provides a separate reality, a world of its own where one can perform actions that are permitted to occur in that world, but that would not make much sense anywhere else." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Enjoyable events occur when a person has not only met some prior expectation or satisfied a need or a desire but also gone beyond what he or she has been programmed to do and achieved something unexpected, perhaps something even unimagined before." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"And the great emperor Marcus Aurelius wrote: 'If you are pained by external things, it is not they that disturb you, but your own judgment of them. And it is in your power to wipe out that judgment now." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Since what we experience is reality, as far as we are concerned, we can transform reality to the extent that we influence what happens in consciousness and thus free ourselves from the threats and blandishments of the outside world." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Ask yourself whether you are happy,' said J. S. Mill, 'and you cease to be so.' It" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The problem is that it has recently become fashionable to regard whatever we feel inside as the true voice of nature speaking. The only authority many people trust today is instinct. If something feels good, if it is natural and spontaneous, then it must be right. But when we follow the suggestions of genetic and social instructions without question we relinquish the control of consciousness and become helpless playthings of impersonal forces. The person who cannot resist food or alcohol, or whose mind is constantly focused on sex, is not free to direct his or her psychic energy." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Information enters consciousness either because we intend to focus attention on it or as a result of attentional habits based on biological or social instructions." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"What counts is to set a goal, to concentrate one's psychic energy, to pay attention to the feedback, and to make certain that the challenge is appropriate to one's skill. Sooner or later the interaction will begin to hum, and the flow experience follows." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"In each person's life, the chances of only good things happening are extremely slim. The likelihood that our desires will be always fulfilled is so minute as to be negligible." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"And, finally, the last step will be to describe how people manage to join all experience into a meaningful pattern (chapter 10). When that is accomplished, and a person feels in control of life and feels that it makes sense, there is nothing left to desire." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Unfortunately, this natural connection between growth and enjoyment tends to disappear with time. Perhaps because 'learning' becomes an external imposition when schooling starts, the excitement of mastering new skills gradually wears out. It becomes all too easy to settle down within the narrow boundaries of the self developed in adolescence." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Holistic medicine and such books as Norman Cousins's account of his successful fight against terminal illness and Dr. Bernie Siegel's descriptions of self-healing are beginning to redress the abstractly materialist view of health that has become so prevalent in this century." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"By the sixth century B.C. Pythagoras and his students had embarked on the immense ordering task that attempted to find common numerical laws binding together astronomy, geometry, music, and arithmetic. Not surprisingly, their work was difficult to distinguish from religion, since it tried to accomplish similar goals: to find a way of expressing the structure of the universe. Two thousand years later, Kepler and then Newton were still on the same quest. Theoretical" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"civilization is built on the repression of individual desires" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Жизнь проходит, на смену молодости, полной иррациональных надежд, приходит отрезвляющая зрелость, и рано или поздно перед нами все острее встает вопрос: «И это все?» В детстве мы, возможно, испытывали боль, в подростковом возрасте часто бывали сбиты с толку, но большинство в глубине души верило, что жизнь станет лучше, когда мы вырастем. В молодости жизнь все еще кажется нам многообещающей, мы верим, что сумеем достичь своих целей. Но вот в волосах появляется неизбежная седина, лишние килограммы не уходят, неуклонно слабеет зрение, и подступают какие-то странные недомогания. Мы подобны засидевшимся посетителям в опустевшем к ночи ресторане, когда официанты начинают нарочито громко раскладывать приборы для завтрака, давая тем самым понять, что нам пора домой, наше время истекло. Немногие оказываются готовы мужественно принять это неприятное напоминание о нашей смертности. «Подождите минуточку, это какая-то ошибка. Ведь я еще толком и не начинал жить. Где же все предназначенные мне деньги и удовольствия?" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"It is easier to enhance creativity by changing conditions in the environment than by trying to make people think more creatively." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Few things are sadder than encountering a person who knows exactly what he should do, yet cannot muster enough energy to do it. 'He who desires but acts not,' wrote Blake with his accustomed vigor, 'breeds pestilence." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"But as soon as these basic problems of survival are solved, merely having enough food and a comfortable shelter is no longer sufficient to make people content. New needs are felt, new desires arise. With affluence and power come escalating expectations, and as our level of wealth and comforts keeps increasing, the sense of well-being we hoped to achieve keeps receding into the distance." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The names we use to describe personality traits—such as extrovert, high achiever, or paranoid—refer to the specific patterns people have used to structure their attention." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"How can it help a person learn to rid himself of anxieties and fears and thus become free of the controls of society, whose rewards he can now take or leave? As suggested before, the way is through control over consciousness, which in turn leads to control over the quality of experience." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Whenever information disrupts consciousness by threatening its goals we have a condition of inner disorder, or psychic entropy, a disorganization of the self that impairs its effectiveness. Prolonged experiences of this kind can weaken the self to the point that it is no longer able to invest attention and pursue its goals." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"To transform the biological necessity of feeding into a flow experience, one must begin by paying attention to what one eats. It is astonishing—as well as discouraging—when guests swallow lovingly prepared food without any sign of having noticed its virtues. What" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Pleasure helps to maintain order, but by itself cannot create new order in consciousness." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"In Erikson's words: 'A meaningful old age…serves the need for that integrated heritage which gives indispensable perspective on the life cycle. Strength here takes the form of that detached yet active concern with life bounded with death, which we call wisdom…' The notion of integrity connotes the ability to tie together, to relate to others outside oneself. Erikson thought that the perspective of an older person is based on a new definition of identity, which could be summarized in the sentence 'I am what survives me.' If toward the end of life I conclude that nothing of myself is likely to survive, despair is likely to take over. But if I have identified with some more enduring entities, my survival will provide a sense of connection, of continuity, that keeps despair at bay. If I love my grandchildren, or the work I have accomplished, or the causes I have championed, then I am bound to feel a part of the future even after personal death. Jonas Salk calls this attitude 'being a good ancestor." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"One of the most ironic paradoxes of our time is this great availability of leisure that somehow fails to be translated into enjoyment. Compared" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The universe is not hostile, nor yet is it friendly,' in the words of J. H. Holmes. 'It is simply indifferent.' Chaos" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Without interest in the world, a desire to be actively related to it, a person becomes isolated into himself." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Some of the tensions of teenage life can be eased if the family provides a sense of acceptance, control, and self-confidence to the adolescent. A relationship that has these dimensions is one in which people trust one another, and feel totally accepted. One does not have to worry constantly about being liked, being popular, or living up to others' expectations. As the popular sayings go, 'Love means never having to say ‘I'm sorry,'' 'Home is where you're always welcome.' Being assured of one's worth in the eyes of one's kin gives a person the strength to take chances; excessive conformity is usually caused by fear of disapproval." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"If you win these battles enough, that battle against yourself, at least for a moment, it becomes easier to win the battles in the world." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Agon includes games that have competition as their main feature, such as most sports and athletic events;" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Pain and pleasure occur in consciousness and exist only there." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"And being able to forget temporarily who we are seems to be very enjoyable. When not preoccupied with our selves, we actually have a chance to expand the concept of who we are. Loss of self-consciousness can lead to self-transcendence, to a feeling that the boundaries of our being have been pushed forward." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"A true friend is someone we can occasionally be crazy with, someone who does not expect us to be always true to form. It is someone who shares our goal of self-realization, and therefore is willing to share the risks that any increase in complexity entails." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The profits made from the widespread dependence on illicit drugs are enriching murderers and terrorists. It seems possible that in the near future we shall be ruled by an oligarchy of former drug dealers, who are rapidly gaining wealth and power at the expense of law-abiding citizens. And in our sexual lives, by shedding the shackles of 'hypocritical' morality, we have unleashed destructive viruses upon one another." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Each biblical parable, for instance, tries to encode the hard-won experience of many individuals over unknown eons of time." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Those who always worry about what can go wrong might be well prepared against dangers but will never know how enjoyable life can be." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Oppression is often made possible by a new technological advance—sometimes as dramatic as the introduction of farming, sometimes as apparently trivial as the stirrup." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Many people have impressive record libraries, full of the most exquisite music ever produced, yet they fail to enjoy it. They listen a few times to their recording equipment, marveling at the clarity of the sound it produces, and then forget to listen again until it is time to purchase a more advanced system. Those who make the most of the potential for enjoyment inherent in music, on the other hand, have strategies for turning the experience into flow. They begin by setting aside specific hours for listening. When the time comes, they deepen concentration by dousing the lights, by sitting in a favorite chair, or by following some other ritual that will focus attention. They plan carefully the selection to be played, and formulate specific goals for the session to come." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"These are the terms amateur and dilettante. Nowadays these labels are slightly derogatory. An amateur or a dilettante is someone not quite up to par, a person not to be taken very seriously, one whose performance falls short of professional standards. But originally, 'amateur,' from the Latin verb amare, 'to love,' referred to a person who loved what he was doing. Similarly a 'dilettante,' from the Latin delectare, 'to find delight in,' was someone who enjoyed a given activity." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"accepting limitations is liberating." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"It is for this reason that courage, resilience, perseverance, mature defense, or transformational coping—the dissipative structures of the mind—are so essential. Without them we would be constantly suffering through the random bombardment of stray psychological meteorites. On the other hand, if we do develop such positive strategies, most negative events can be at least neutralized, and possibly even used as challenges that will help make the self stronger and more complex." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Huxley suggested rock climbing as an ideal basic training for citizenship. This sport teaches young people that survival depends on developing skills and on preparing oneself to face risks and unexpected contingencies. They discover that every move they make has real consequences involving life and death. In addition, a rock climber learns to take responsibility for another person's life, and learns to trust his life in the hands of the companion who holds the other end of the rope to which he is attached. What could be a more concrete way of shaping a complex self? The" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The last great attempt to free consciousness from the domination of impulses and social controls was psychoanalysis; as Freud pointed out, the two tyrants that fought for control over the mind were the id and the superego, the first a servant of the genes, the second a lackey of society—both representing the 'Other.' Opposed to them was the ego, which stood for the genuine needs of the self connected to its concrete environment." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"direct control of experience, the ability to derive moment-by-moment enjoyment from everything we do, can overcome the obstacles to fulfillment." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Yet, the elders said, at times the world became too predictable and the challenge began to go out of life. Without challenge, life had no meaning." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Almost any kind of feedback can be enjoyable, provided it is logically related to a goal in which one has invested psychic energy. If" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Jefferson's uncomfortable dictum 'Eternal vigilance is the price of liberty' applies outside the fields of politics as well; it means that we must constantly reevaluate what we do, lest habits and past wisdom blind us to new possibilities." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The intentions we either inherit or acquire are organized in hierarchies of goals, which specify the order of precedence among them. For the protester, achieving a given political reform may be more important than anything else, life included. That one goal takes precedence over all others. Most people, however, adopt 'sensible' goals based on the needs of their body—to live a long and healthy life, to have sex, to be well fed and comfortable—or on the desires implanted by the social system—to be good, to work hard, to spend as much as possible, to live up to others' expectations." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"De todas las virtudes que podemos aprender no hay otra característica más útil, más necesaria para la supervivencia y con más probabilidades de mejorar la calidad de vida que la capacidad de transformar la adversidad en un desafío que pueda proporcionarnos disfrute." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"if we accept the fact that optimal experience is what gives real value to life, then we must conclude that politicians who strive to realize the common good are actually smarter, because they are taking on the higher challenges, and thus have a better chance to experience real enjoyment." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Setting goals. Becoming immersed in the activity. Paying attention to what is happening. Learning to enjoy the immediate experience." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Hay tantas cosas de las que debemos preocuparnos y tan poco tiempo para atenderlas todas…" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"personas que, sin importar sus condiciones materiales, han sido capaces de mejorar la calidad de sus vidas, se sienten satisfechas y han logrado que las personas que les rodean también se sientan algo más felices. Tales individuos tienen ganas de vivir, están abiertos a una gran variedad de experiencias, siguen aprendiendo hasta el día de su muerte y tienen fuertes lazos y compromisos con otras personas y con el entorno en que viven. Disfrutan de todo lo que hacen, incluso aunque sea algo tedioso o difícil, pocas veces se aburren y pueden tomarse con calma cualquier cosa que les suceda. Tal vez su mayor fuerza resida en que controlan sus vidas." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Progress is relatively fast in fields that apply knowledge to the material world, such as physics or genetics. But it is painfully slow when knowledge is to be applied to modify our own habits and desires." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Children who grow up in family situations that facilitate clarity of goals, feedback, feeling of control, concentration on the task at hand, intrinsic motivation, and challenge will generally have a better chance to order their lives so as to make flow possible." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"creative,' 'concentrated,' and 'motivated.' What was unexpected, however, is how frequently people reported flow situations at work, and how rarely in leisure." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"To most people, the sheer wall of El Capitan in Yosemite valley is just a huge chunk of featureless rock. But to the climber it is an arena offering an endlessly complex symphony of mental and physical challenges." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"How to keep love fresh? The answer is the same as it is for any other activity. To be enjoyable, a relationship must become more complex. To become more complex, the partners must discover new potentialities in themselves and in each other. To discover these, they must invest attention in each other—so that they can learn what thoughts and feelings, what dreams reside in their partner's mind. This in itself is a never-ending process, a lifetime's task. After" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Individuals who require a great deal of outside information to form representations of reality in consciousness may become more dependent on the external environment for using their minds. They would have less control over their thoughts, which in turn would make it more difficult for them to enjoy experience. By contrast, people who need only a few external cues to represent events in consciousness are more autonomous from the environment. They have a more flexible attention that allows them to restructure experience more easily, and therefore to achieve optimal experiences more frequently." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Contrary to what we tend to assume, the normal state of the mind is chaos." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Such individuals lead vigorous lives, are open to a variety of experiences, keep on learning until the day they die, and have strong ties and commitments to other people and to the environment in which they live. They enjoy whatever they do, even if tedious or difficult; they are hardly ever bored, and they can take in stride anything that comes their way." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The opposite state from the condition of psychic entropy is optimal experience. When the information that keeps coming into awareness is congruent with goals, psychic energy flows effortlessly. There is no need to worry, no reason to question one's adequacy. But whenever one does stop to think about oneself, the evidence is encouraging: 'You are doing all right.' The positive feedback strengthens the self, and more attention is freed to deal with the outer and the inner environment." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"a yogi disciplines his mind to ignore pain that ordinary people would have no choice but to let into their awareness; similarly he can ignore the insistent claims of hunger or sexual arousal that most people would be helpless to resist. The same effect can be achieved in different ways, either through perfecting a severe mental discipline as in Yoga or through cultivating constant spontaneity as in Zen." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Getting married requires a radical and permanent reorientation of attentional habits. When a child is added to the pair, both parents have to readapt again to accommodate the needs of the infant: their sleep cycle must change, they will go out less often, the wife may give up her job, they may have to start saving for the child's education. All this can be very hard work, and it can also be very frustrating. If a person is unwilling to adjust personal goals when starting a relationship, then a lot of what subsequently happens in that relationship" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"People who learn to control inner experience will be able to determine the quality of their lives," -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"As a result, one of the most universal and distinctive features of optimal experience takes place: people become so involved in what they are doing that the activity becomes spontaneous, almost automatic; they stop being aware of themselves as separate from the actions they are performing." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"At this point in our scientific knowledge we are on the verge of being able to estimate how much information the central nervous system is capable of processing. It seems we can manage at most seven bits of information—such as differentiated sounds, or visual stimuli, or recognizable nuances of emotion or thought—at any one time, and that the shortest time it takes to discriminate between one set of bits and another is about 1/18 of a second. By using these figures one concludes that it is possible to process at most 126 bits of information per second, or 7,560 per minute, or almost half a million per hour." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"according to Sorokin. More recent and disturbing examples might include the Nazi interlude in Germany, the communist regimes in Russia and China, and the Islamic revival in Iran." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"El último gran intento de liberar a la conciencia del dominio de los impulsos y del control social fue el psicoanálisis;" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"the control of consciousness determines the quality of life" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Unconditional acceptance is especially important to children. If parents threaten to withdraw their love from a child when he fails to measure up, the child's natural playfulness will be gradually replaced by chronic anxiety." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"la felicidad no es algo que sucede. No es el resultado de la buena suerte o del azar. No es algo que pueda comprarse con dinero o con poder. No parece depender de los acontecimientos externos, sino más bien de cómo los interpretamos. De hecho, la felicidad es una condición vital que cada persona debe preparar, cultivar y defender individualmente. Las personas que saben controlar su experiencia interna son capaces de determinar la calidad de sus vidas, eso es lo más cerca que podemos estar de ser felices. De todos modos, no se puede alcanzar la felicidad mediante la búsqueda consciente de ella. «Pregúntese a sí mismo si es feliz –decía J.S. Mill– y dejará de serlo». Es al estar totalmente involucrados en cada detalle de nuestras vidas, sea bueno o malo, cuando encontramos la felicidad, no intentando buscarla directamente. Viktor Frankl, el psicólogo austríaco, lo resumió bellamente en el prefacio de su libro Man's Search for Meaning: «No aspiren al éxito: cuanto más aspiren a él y más lo conviertan en su objetivo, con mayor probabilidad lo perderán. Puesto que el éxito, como la felicidad, no puede conseguirse, debe seguirse… como si fuese el efecto secundario no intencionado de la dedicación personal a algo mayor que uno mismo.» Así, ¿cómo podemos alcanzar esta meta tan escurridiza que no puede alcanzarse por una ruta directa? Mis estudios durante este último cuarto de siglo me han convencido de que existe un modo. Es un camino tortuoso que empieza consiguiendo el control sobre los contenidos de nuestra conciencia. Nuestras percepciones sobre nuestras vidas son el resultado de muchas fuerzas que conforman nuestra experiencia, y cada" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"If one does not expect perfect safety, recognizes that risks are inevitable, and succeeds in enjoying a less than ideally predictable world, the threat of insecurity will not have as great a chance of marring happiness." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"In many ways, competition is a quick way of developing complexity: 'He who wrestles with us,' wrote Edmund Burke, 'strengthens our nerves, and sharpens our skill. Our antagonist is our helper." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The concentration of the flow experience—together with clear goals and immediate feedback—provides order to consciousness, inducing the enjoyable condition of psychic negentropy." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Yet we cannot reach happiness by consciously searching for it. 'Ask yourself whether you are happy,' said J. S. Mill, 'and you cease to be so.' It is by being fully involved with every detail of our lives, whether good or bad, that we find happiness, not by trying to look for it directly." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"A person who has achieved control over psychic energy and has invested it in consciously chosen goals cannot help but grow into a more complex being." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"In any case, an individual can experience only so much. Therefore, the information we allow into consciousness becomes extremely important; it is, in fact, what determines the content and the quality of life." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"山姆·布朗寧（Sam Browning）是我們長期追蹤研究的一位青少年，他就是解釋這種循環關係很好的例子。山姆十五歲時，和父親到百慕達過耶誕假期。那時，他對自己將來想做什麼毫無頭緒；他的自我還沒有定型，自我的認知也還不夠。他尚未發展出特定目標，想要的東西與同年齡的男孩如出一轍，要不是基因決定的，就是社會環境灌輸他們的——也就是說，他考慮要念大學、畢業後找份好差事，結婚、在郊區買間房子住下來。但是在百慕達的時候，父親帶他去探訪珊瑚礁，還潛到水裡去探索海底世界。山姆簡直不敢相信自己的眼睛，這個神祕、美麗中帶點危險的環境太迷人了，他下定決心要更深入的認識它。他後來在高中修了幾門生物課，決意日後要成為海洋生物學家。" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"What I 'discovered' was that happiness is not something that happens. It is not the result of good fortune or random chance. It is not something that money can buy or power command. It does not depend on outside events, but, rather, on how we interpret them. Happiness, in fact, is a condition that must be prepared for, cultivated, and defended privately by each person. People who learn to control inner experience will be able to determine the quality of their lives, which is as close as any of us can come to being happy. Yet" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Of course we don't have to undertake any of these plans. But if we don't, chances are, sooner or later, we will regret it." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Compared to people living only a few generations ago, we have enormously greater opportunities to have a good time, yet there is no indication that we actually enjoy life more than our ancestors did. Opportunities alone, however, are not enough. We also need the skills to make use of them. And we need to know how to control consciousness—a skill that most people have not learned to cultivate. Surrounded by an astounding panoply of recreational gadgets and leisure choices, most of us go on being bored and vaguely frustrated." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"si Cristo hubiese regresado para predicar su mensaje de liberación en la Edad Media, habría sido crucificado de nuevo por los dirigentes de la misma iglesia cuyo poder mundano se había levantado en su nombre." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"But symbols can be deceptive: they have a tendency to distract from the reality they are supposed to represent." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"But if one assumes that people have a choice in how they respond to external events, in what meaning they attribute to suffering, then one can interpret the constructive response as normal and the neurotic one as a failure to rise to the challenge, as a breakdown in the ability to flow." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"All social controls, for instance, are ultimately based on a threat to the survival instinct. The people of an oppressed country obey their conquerors because they want to go on living." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"that the body does not produce flow merely by its movements. The mind is always involved as well. To get enjoyment from swimming, for instance, one needs to cultivate a set of appropriate skills, which requires the concentration of attention. Without" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The optimists claim that through the course of evolution the nervous system has become adept at 'chunking' bits of information so that processing capacity is constantly expanded. Simple functions like adding a column of numbers or driving a car grow to be automated, leaving the mind free to deal with more data. We" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Two terms describing states of social pathology apply also to conditions that make flow difficult to experience: anomie and alienation. Anomie—" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"In the roughly one-third of the day that is free of obligations, in their precious 'leisure' time, most people in fact seem to use their minds as little as possible. The largest part of free time—almost half of it for American adults—is spent in front of the television set. The" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Some people have a tendency to become very mystical when talking about consciousness and expect it to accomplish miracles that at present it is not designed to perform. They would like to believe that anything is possible in what they think of as the spiritual realm. Other individuals claim the power to channel into past existences, to communicate with spiritual entities, and to perform uncanny feats of extrasensory perception. When not outright frauds, these accounts usually turn out to be self-delusions—lies that an overly receptive mind tells itself." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"If parents just talked more about their ideals and dreams—even if these had been frustrated—the children might develop the ambition needed to break through the complacency of their present selves. If nothing else, discussing one's job or the thoughts and events of the day, and treating children as young adults, as friends, help to socialize them into thoughtful adults. But if the father spends all his free time at home vegetating in front of the TV set with a glass of alcohol in his hand, children will naturally assume that adults are boring people who don't know how to have fun, and will turn to the peer group for enjoyment." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"a new faith is to capture our imagination, it must be one that will account rationally for the things we know, the things we feel, the things we hope for, and the ones we dread. It must be a system of beliefs that will marshal our psychic energy toward meaningful goals, a system that provides rules for a way of life that can provide flow." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Changing external conditions might seem to work at first, but if a person is not in control of his consciousness, the old fears or desires will soon return, reviving previous anxieties. One" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Without challenge, life had no meaning." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"the universe was not designed with the comfort of human beings in mind." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Even when children are taught music, the usual problem often arises: too much emphasis is placed on how they perform, and too little on what they experience." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"«El universo no es hostil, pero tampoco es amigable– en palabras de J.H. Holmes–; sencillamente es indiferente.»" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Contrary to what we usually believe, moments like these, the best moments in our lives, are not the passive, receptive, relaxing times--although such experiences can also be enjoyable, if we have worked hard to attain them. The best moments usually occur when a person's body or mind is stretch to its limits in a voluntary effort to accomplish something difficult or worthwhile. Optimal experience is thus something that we make happen." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"One of the major functions of every culture has been to shield its members from chaos, to reassure them of their importance and ultimate success." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"It seems, for instance, that the early hunter-gatherers, like their present-day descendants living in the inhospitable deserts of Africa and Australia, spent only three to five hours each day on what we would call working—providing for food, shelter, clothing, and tools. They spent the rest of the day in conversation, resting, or dancing. At the opposite extreme were the industrial workers of the nineteenth century, who were often forced to spend twelve-hour days, six days a week, toiling in grim factories or dangerous mines." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The 'autotelic self' is one that easily translates potential threats into enjoyable challenges, and therefore maintains its inner harmony." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Contrary to what we usually believe, moments like these, the best moments in our lives, are not the passive, receptive, relaxing times--although such experiences can also be enjoyable, if we have worked hard to attain them. The best moments usually occur when a person's body or mind is stretched to its limits in a voluntary effort to accomplish something difficult or worthwhile. Optimal experience is thus something that we make happen." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Free time, on the other hand, is unstructured, and requires much greater effort to be shaped into something that can be enjoyed." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"you don't conquer anything except things in yourself…. The act of writing justifies poetry." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"In other words, with nothing to do, the mind is unable to prevent negative thoughts from elbowing their way to center stage." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Learning to use time alone, instead of escaping from it, is especially important in our early years. Teenagers who can't bear solitude disqualify themselves from later carrying out adult tasks that require serious mental preparation." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"These are some of the comments Lucio made in his interview: 'When I became paraplegic, it was like being born again. I had to learn from scratch everything I used to know, but in a different way. I had to learn to dress myself, to use my head better. I had to become part of the environment, and use it without trying to control it…. it took commitment, willpower, and patience. As far as the future is concerned, I hope to keep improving, to keep breaking through the limitations of my handicap…. Everybody must have a purpose. After becoming a paraplegic, these improvements have become my life goal." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"From the earliest years we have been conditioned to believe that a benign fate would provide for us. After all, everybody seemed to agree that we had the great fortune of living in the richest country that ever was, in the most scientifically advanced period of human history, surrounded by the most efficient technology, protected by the wisest Constitution. Therefore, it made sense to expect that we would have a richer, more meaningful life than any earlier members of the human race. If our grandparents, living in that ridiculously primitive past, could be content, just imagine how happy we would be! Scientists told us this was so, it was preached from the pulpits of churches, and it was confirmed by thousands of TV commercials celebrating the good life. Yet despite all these assurances, sooner or later we wake up alone, sensing that there is no way this affluent, scientific, and sophisticated world is going to provide us with happiness." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Yet we have all experienced times when, instead of being buffeted by anonymous forces, we do feel in control of our actions, masters of our own fate. On the rare occasions that it happens, we feel a sense of exhilaration, a deep sense of enjoyment that is long cherished and that becomes a landmark in memory for what life should be like." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Part of the answer probably has to do with innate genetic causes." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"It is for this reason that pleasure is so evanescent, and that the self does not grow as a consequence of pleasurable experiences. Complexity requires investing psychic energy in goals that are new, that are relatively challenging." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Teenagers, who swing from one threat to their fragile evolving personhood to another in quick succession throughout the day, especially depend on the soothing patterns of sound to restore order in their consciousness. But so do many adults. One" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"«Nosotros siempre estamos luchando por vivir –solía decir Ralph Waldo Emerson–, pero nunca vivimos.» O como la pobre Frances aprendió en el cuento para niños: siempre habrá pan y jamón mañana, pero nunca habrá pan y jamón hoy." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The best moments usually occur when a person's body or mind is stretched to its limits in a voluntary effort to accomplish something difficult and worthwhile." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Socialization, or the transformation of a human organism into a person who functions successfully within a particular social system, cannot be avoided." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"They are situations in which attention can be freely invested to achieve a person's goals, because there is no disorder to straighten out, no threat for the self to defend against. We have called this state the flow experience, [...] and those who attain it develop a stronger, more confident self, because more of their psychic energy has been invested successfully in goals they themselves had chosen to pursue." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Ideally, the end of extrinsically applied education should be the start of an education that is motivated intrinsically. At that point the goal of studying is no longer to make the grade, earn a diploma, and find a good job. Rather, it is to understand what is happening around one, to develop a personally meaningful sense of what one's experience is all about. From that will come the profound joy of the thinker, like that experienced by the disciples of Socrates that Plato describes in Philebus: 'The young man who has drunk for the first time from that spring is as happy as if he had found a treasure of wisdom; he is positively enraptured. He will pick up any discourse, draw all its ideas together to make them into one, then take them apart and pull them to pieces. He will puzzle first himself, then also others, badger whoever comes near him, young and old, sparing not even his parents, nor anyone who is willing to listen. . . ." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Cultures are defensive constructions against chaos, designed to reduce the impact of randomness on experience." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Bertrand Russell, one of the greatest philosophers of our century, described how he achieved personal happiness: ""Gradually I learned to be indifferent to myself and my deficiencies; I came to center my attention increasingly upon external objects: the state of the world, various branches of knowledge, individuals for whom I felt affection."" There could be no better short description of how to build for oneself an autotelic personality." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Being in control of the mind means that literally anything that happens can be a source of joy." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"la civilización se construye sobre la represión de los deseos individuales." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"There are no strict formulas, however, for how much time people actually have to work. It seems, for instance, that the early hunter-gatherers, like their present-day descendants living in the inhospitable deserts of Africa and Australia, spent only three to five hours each day on what we would call working—providing for food, shelter, clothing, and tools. They spent the rest of the day in conversation, resting, or dancing." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"To be enjoyable, a relationship must become more complex. To become more complex, the partners must discover new potentialities in themselves and in each other. To discover these, they must invest attention in each other—so that they can learn what thoughts and feelings, what dreams reside in their partner's mind. This in itself is a never-ending process, a lifetime's task." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"alea is the class that includes all games of chance, from dice to bingo;" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The ballet dancer may fall, break her leg, and never make the perfect turn, and the chess player may be defeated and never become a champion. But at least in principle, in the world of flow perfection is attainable." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"But increasingly the emphasis has been to value behavior over subjective states; what is admired is success, achievement, the quality of performance rather than the quality of experience. Consequently it has become embarrassing to be called a dilettante, even though to be a dilettante is to achieve what counts most—the enjoyment one's actions provide. It" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"This cultural hubris, or overweening presumption about what we are entitled to from a universe that is basically insensitive to human needs, generally leads to trouble. The unwarranted sense of security sooner or later results in a rude awakening. When people start believing that progress is inevitable and life easy, they may quickly lose courage and determination in the face of the first signs of adversity. As they realize that what they had believed in is not entirely true, they abandon faith in everything else they have learned. Deprived of the customary supports that cultural values had given them, they flounder in a morass of anxiety and apathy. Such" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Because the family is our first and in many ways our most important social environment, quality of life depends to a large extent on how well a person succeeds in making the interaction with his or her relatives enjoyable. For no matter how strong the ties biology and culture have forged between family members, it is no secret that there is great variety in how people feel about their relatives. Some families are warm and supportive, some are challenging and demanding, others threaten the self of their members at every turn, still others are just insufferably boring. The frequency of murder is much higher among family members than among unrelated people. Child abuse and incestuous sexual molestation, once thought to be rare deviations from the norm, apparently occur much more often than anyone had previously suspected. In John Fletcher's words, 'Those have most power to hurt us that we love.' It is clear that the family can make one very happy, or be an unbearable burden. Which one it will be depends, to a great extent, on how much psychic energy family members invest in the mutual relationship, and especially in each other's goals." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"whenever a culture has had a run of good luck and for a while seems indeed to have found a way of controlling the forces of nature. At that point it is logical for it to begin believing that it is a chosen people who need no longer fear any major setback. The" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Of the many causes that shaped St. Francis's actions, a primary one was the belief that his actions mattered, and that he had a responsibility to change the world around him. This belief, in itself, is a 'cause.' The idea of free will is a self-fulfilling prophecy; those who abide by it are liberated from the absolute determinism of external forces. Chance" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"el gran emperador Marco Aurelio escribió: «Si te sientes dolido por las cosas externas, no son éstas las que te molestan, sino tu propio juicio acerca de ellas. Y está en tu poder el cambiar este juicio ahora mismo»." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"A similar distinction is that between discovered life themes, when a person writes the script for her actions out of personal experience and awareness of choice; and accepted life themes, when a person simply takes on a predetermined role from a script written long ago by others. Both" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"the apathy of many of the people around us is not due to their being physically or mentally exhausted. The problem seems to lie more in the modern worker's relation to his job, with the way he perceives his goals in relation to it." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The meaning of life is meaning: whatever it is, wherever it comes from, a unified purpose is what gives meaning to life." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"It is usual to explain the motivation of those who enjoy dangerous activities as some sort of pathological need: they are trying to exorcise a deep-seated fear, they are compensating, they are compulsively reenacting an Oedipal fixation, they are 'sensation seekers.' While such motives may be occasionally involved, what is most striking, when one actually speaks to specialists in risk, is how their enjoyment derives not from the danger itself, but from their ability to minimize it. So rather than a pathological thrill that comes from courting disaster, the positive emotion they enjoy is the perfectly healthy feeling of being able to control potentially dangerous forces." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"if workers really enjoyed their jobs they would not only benefit personally, but sooner or later they would almost certainly produce more efficiently and reach all the other goals that now take precedence." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The meaning of life is meaning: whatever it is, wherever it comes from, a unified purpose is what gives meaning to life. The" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Вероятно, обитатели снегов и пустынь, не умевшие радоваться жизни, в конце концов сдались и вымерли. Но тот факт, что некоторые выжили, доказывает, что одних суровых условий обитания недостаточно, чтобы помешать наступлению состояния потока." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"After each episode of flow a person becomes more of a unique individual, less predictable, possessed of rarer skills." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"There is no need to visit far-off lands to see how flow can be a natural part of living. Every child, before self-consciousness begins to interfere, acts spontaneously with total abandon and complete involvement. Boredom is something children have to learn the hard way, in response to artificially restricted choices. Again, this does not mean that children are always happy. Cruel or neglectful parents, poverty and sickness, the inevitable accidents of living make children suffer intensely. But a child is rarely unhappy without good reason. It is understandable that people tend to be so nostalgic about their early years; like Tolstoy's Ivan Ilyich, many feel that the wholehearted serenity of childhood, the undivided participation in the here and now, becomes increasingly difficult to recapture as the years go by." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Athletes know well that to improve performance beyond a certain point they must learn to discipline their minds." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"[W]hat we call religion is actually the oldest and most ambitious attempt to create order in consciousness. It therefore makes sense that religious rituals would be a profound source of enjoyment." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Because our present social arrangements, however, do not provide adequate challenges for the skills teenagers have, they must discover opportunities for action outside those sanctioned by adults. The only outlets they find, all too often, are vandalism, delinquency, drugs, and recreational sex." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Although, as we have seen, people generally long to leave their places of work and get home, ready to put their hard-earned free time to good use, all too often they have no idea what to do there." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Teenagers without strong family ties can become so dependent on their peer group that they will do anything to be accepted by it. About twenty years ago in Tucson, Arizona, the entire senior class of a large high school knew for several months that an older dropout from the school, who had kept up a 'friendship' with the younger students, had been killing their classmates, and burying their corpses in the desert. Yet none of them reported the crimes to the authorities, who discovered them by chance. The students, all nice middle-class suburban kids, claimed that they could not divulge the murders for fear of being cut by their friends." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Happiness, in fact, is a condition that must be prepared for, cultivated, and defended privately by each person. People who learn to control inner experience will be able to determine the quality of their lives, which is as close as any of us can come to being happy. Yet we cannot reach happiness by consciously searching for it." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Friendships allow us to express parts of our beings that we seldom have the opportunity to act out otherwise." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"It is important to realize that seeking pleasure is a reflex response built into our genes for the preservation of the species, not for the purpose of our own personal advantage." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Childhood can be painful, adolescence confusing, but for most people, behind it all there is the expectation that after one grows up, things will get better. During the years of early adulthood the future still looks promising, the hope remains that one's goals will be realized. But inevitably the bathroom mirror shows the first white hairs, and confirms the fact that those extra pounds are not about to leave; inevitably eyesight begins to fail and mysterious pains begin to shoot through the body. Like waiters in a restaurant starting to place breakfast settings on the surrounding tables while one is still having dinner, these intimations of mortality plainly communicate the message: Your time is up, it's time to move on. When this happens, few people are ready." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"the self does not grow as a consequence of pleasurable experiences. Complexity requires investing psychic energy in goals that are new, that are relatively challenging." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"People without an internalized symbolic system can all too easily become captives of the media. They are easily manipulated by demagogues, pacified by entertainers, and exploited by anyone who has something to sell. If we have become dependent on television, on drugs, and on facile calls to political or religious salvation, it is because we have so little to fall back on, so few internal rules to keep our mind from being taken over by those who claim to have the answers. Without the capacity to provide its own information, the mind drifts into randomness. It is within each person's power to decide whether its order will be restored from the outside, in ways over which we have no control, or whether the order will be the result of an internal pattern that grows organically from our skills and knowledge." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"natural processes do not take human desires into account. They are deaf and blind to our needs, and thus they are random in contrast with the order we attempt to establish through our goals." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Even when children _are_ taught music, the usual problem often arises: too much emphasis is placed on how they perform, and too little on what they experience. Parents who push their children to excel at the violin are generally not interested in whether the children are actually enjoying the playing; they want the child to perform well enough to attract attention, to win prizes, to end up on the stage of Carnegie Hall. By doing so, they succeed in perverting music into the opposite of what it was designed to be: they turn it into a source of psychic disorder. Parental expectations for musical _behavior_ often create great stress, and sometimes a complete breakdown." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The perfect society would be able to strike a healthy balance between the spiritual and material worlds, but short of aiming for perfection, we can look toward Eastern religions for guidance in how to achieve control over consciousness." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"It is in the company of friends that we can most clearly experience the freedom of the self and learn who we really are. The ideal of a modern marriage is to have one's spouse as a friend." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"In Confucian China, in ancient Sparta, in Republican Rome, in the early Pilgrim settlements of New England, and among the British upper classes of the Victorian era, people were held responsible for keeping a tight rein on their emotions. Anyone who indulged in self-pity, who let instinct rather than reflection dictate actions, forfeited the right to be accepted as a member of the community. In other historical periods, such as the one in which we are now living, the ability to control oneself is not held in high esteem. People who attempt it are thought to be faintly ridiculous, 'uptight,' or not quite 'with" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"family must be both differentiated and integrated. Differentiation means that each person is encouraged to develop his or her unique traits, maximize personal skills, set individual goals. Integration, in contrast, guarantees that what happens to one person will affect all others." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The same effect can be achieved in different ways, either through perfecting a severe mental discipline as in Yoga or through cultivating constant spontaneity as in Zen. But the intended result is identical: to free inner life from the threat of chaos, on the one hand, and from the rigid conditioning of biological urges, on the other, and hence to become independent from the social controls that exploit both." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Differentiation implies a movement toward uniqueness, toward separating oneself from others. Integration refers to its opposite: a union with other people, with ideas and entities beyond the self. A complex self is one that succeeds in combining these opposite tendencies." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"When there are too many demands, options, challenges, we become anxious; when too few, we get bored." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Cicero once wrote that to be completely free one must become a slave to a set of laws. In other words, accepting limitations is liberating. For" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The distinction between serial and parallel processing of information may also explain what happens during incubation. In a serial system like that of an old-fashioned calculator, a complex numerical problem must be solved in a sequence, one step at a time. In a parallel system such as in advanced computer software, a problem is broken up into its component steps, the partial computations are carried out simultaneously, and then these are reconstituted into a single final solution. Something similar to parallel processing may be taking place when the elements of a problem are said to be incubating. When we think consciously about an issue, our previous training and the effort to arrive at a solution push our ideas in a linear direction, usually along predictable or familiar lines. But intentionality does not work in the subconscious. Free from rational direction, ideas can combine and pursue each other every which way. Because of this freedom, original connections that would be at first rejected by the rational mind have a chance to become established." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Our perceptions about our lives are the outcome of many forces that shape experience, each having an impact on whether we feel good or bad." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"In the past few centuries economic rationality has een so successful that we have come to take for granted that the ""bottom line"" of any human effort is to be measured in dollars and cents. But an exclusively economic approach to life is profoundly irrational; the true bottom line consists in the quality and complexity of experience" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Sadece var olduğu için tüm dürtü ve içgüdülerimizi kabul eden ve destekleyen insan doğasıyla ilgili ""liberal"" görüş oldukça tepkisel sonuçlara neden olur. Modern ""realizmlerin"" çoğunun bilindik eski moda kaderciliğin yalnızca bir türü olduğu ortaya çıktı: İnsanlar ""doğa"" kavramına başvurarak sorumluluktan kurtulurlar. Ama doğaya göre biz cahil doğarız. Bu nedenle deneyip öğrenmemiz gerekmez mi? Bazı insanlar normalden daha fazla androjen üretirler ve bu nedenle aşırı saldırgandırlar. Bu durum, şiddeti özgürce ifade etmeleri gerektiği anlamına mı gelir? Doğanın gerçeklerini inkâr edemeyiz ama kesinlikle bunu geliştirmeyi denemeliyiz." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"In making us work for its goals, society is assisted by some powerful allies: our biological needs and our genetic conditioning." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"A person who cannot override genetic instructions when necessary is always vulnerable. Instead of deciding how to act in terms of personal goals, he has to surrender to the things that his body has been programmed (or misprogrammed) to do." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"seems more beneficial to find out how everyday life can be made more harmonious and more satisfying, and thus achieve by a direct route what cannot be reached through the pursuit of symbolic goals." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"But a person does not have to be turned into a puppet jerked about by social controls. The solution is to gradually become free of societal rewards and learn how to substitute for them rewards that are under one's own powers. This is not to say that we should abandon every goal endorsed by society; rather, it means that, in addition to or instead of the goals others use to bribe us with, we develop a set of our own. The most important step in emancipating oneself from social controls is the ability to find rewards in the events of each moment." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"humankind collectively has increased its material powers a thousandfold, it has not advanced very far in terms of improving the content of experience." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"If we are learning to be more assertive, we might inadvertently alienate our friends." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The quality of experience of people who play with and transform the opportunities in their surroundings, as Joe did, is clearly more developed as well as more enjoyable than that of people who resign themselves to live within the constraints of the barren reality they feel they cannot alter." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Cultures are defensive constructions against chaos, designed to reduce the impact of randomness on experience. They" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Developing a discriminating palate, like any other skill, requires the investment of psychic energy. But the energy invested is returned many times over in a more complex experience. The" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"there are enough exceptions in every culture to show that goals are quite flexible. Individuals who depart from the norms—heroes, saints, sages, artists, and poets, as well as madmen and criminals—look for different things in life than most others do. The existence of people like these shows that consciousness can be ordered in terms of different goals and intentions. Each of us has this freedom to control our subjective reality." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"one society is 'better' than another if a greater number of its people have access to experiences that are in line with their goals." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"thoroughly socialized person is one who desires only the rewards that others around him have agreed he should long for—" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Narcissistic individuals, who are mainly concerned with protecting their self, fall apart when the external conditions turn threatening. The ensuing panic prevents them from doing what they must do; their attention turns inward in an effort to restore order in consciousness, and not enough remains to negotiate outside reality." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The function of consciousness is to represent information about what is happening outside and inside the organism in such a way that it can be evaluated and acted upon by the body." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The roots of the discontent are internal, and each person must untangle them personally, with his or her own power." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"One cannot enjoy doing the same thing at the same level for long. We grow either bored or frustrated; and then the desire to enjoy ourselves again pushes us to stretch our skills, or discover new opportunities for using them." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Marcus Aurelius wrote: 'If you are pained by external things, it is not they that disturb you, but your own judgment of them. And it is in your power to wipe out that judgment now." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Bertrand Russell, one of the greatest philosophers of our century, described how he achieved personal happiness: 'Gradually I learned to be indifferent to myself and my deficiencies; I came to center my attention increasingly upon external objects: the state of the world, various branches of knowledge, individuals for whom I felt affection.' There could be no better short description of how to build for oneself an autotelic personality." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"La fe más prometedora para el futuro podría basarse en la comprensión de que el universo entero es un sistema relacionado por leyes comunes y que no tiene sentido imponer nuestros sueños y deseos sobre la naturaleza sin tenerla en cuenta." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"What would really satisfy people is not getting slim or rich, but feeling good about their lives. In the quest for happiness, partial solutions don't work." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Children who grow up in family situations that facilitate clarity of goals, feedback, feeling of control, concentration on the task at hand, intrinsic motivation, and challenge will generally have a better chance to order their lives so as to make flow possible. Moreover," -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"the worst moods are reported when one is alone and there is nothing that needs to be done." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"How we feel about ourselves, the joy we get from living, ultimately depend directly on how to the mind filters and interprets everyday experiences. [...] To do that we must learn to achieve mastery over consciousness itself." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"When people reflect on how it feels when their experience is most positive, they mention at least one, and often all, of the following. First, the experience usually occurs when we confront tasks we have a chance of completing. Second, we must be able to concentrate on what we are doing. Third and fourth, the concentration is usually possible because the task undertaken has clear goals and provides immediate feedback. Fifth, one acts with a deep but effortless involvement that removes from awareness the worries and frustrations of everyday life. Sixth, enjoyable experiences allow people to exercise a sense of control over their actions. Seventh, concern for the self disappears, yet paradoxically the sense of self emerges stronger after the flow experience is over. Finally, the sense of the duration of time is altered; hours pass by in minutes, and minutes can stretch out to seem like hours. The combination of all these elements causes a sense of deep enjoyment that is so rewarding people feel that expending a great deal of energy is worthwhile simply to be able to feel it." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"However well-intentioned, books cannot give recipes for how to be happy. Because optimal experience depends on the ability to control what happens in consciousness moment by moment, each person has to achieve it on the basis of his own individual efforts and creativity. What a book can do, however, and what this one will try to accomplish, is to present examples of how life can be made more enjoyable, ordered in the framework of a theory, for readers to reflect upon and from which they may then draw their own conclusions. Rather than presenting a list of dos and don'ts, this book intends to be a voyage through the realms of the mind, charted with the tools of science. Like all adventures worth having it will not be an easy one. Without some intellectual effort, a commitment to reflect and think hard about your own experience, you will not gain much from what follows." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Thus we have the paradoxical situation: On the job people feel skillful and challenged, and therefore feel more happy, strong, creative, and satisfied. In their free time people feel that there is generally not much to do and their skills are not being used, and therefore they tend to feel more sad, weak, dull, and dissatisfied. Yet they would like to work less and spend more time in leisure. What does this contradictory pattern mean? There are several possible explanations, but one conclusion seems inevitable: when it comes to work, people do not heed the evidence of their senses. They disregard the quality of immediate experience, and base their motivation instead on the strongly rooted cultural stereotype of what work is supposed to be like. They think of it as an imposition, a constraint, an infringement of their freedom, and therefore something to be avoided as much as possible." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"One of the most basic delusions of our time is that home life takes care of itself naturally, and that the best strategy for dealing with it is to relax and let it take its course." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Almost every situation we encounter in life presents possibilities for growth." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"People who learn to enjoy their work, who do not waste their free time, end up feeling that their lives as a whole have become much more worthwhile. 'The future,' wrote C. K. Brightbill, 'will belong not only to the educated man, but to the man who is educated to use his leisure wisely." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Sleep, rest, food, and sex provide restorative homeostatic experiences that return consciousness to order after the needs of the body intrude and cause psychic entropy to occur. But they do not produce psychological growth. They do not add complexity to the self. Pleasure helps to maintain order, but by itself cannot create new order in consciousness." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"But the true believer is not really interacting with the belief system; he usually lets his psychic energy be absorbed by it. From this submission nothing new can come; consciousness may attain a welcome order, but it will be an order imposed rather than achieved." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Any activity contains a bundle of opportunities for action, or 'challenges,' that require appropriate skills to realize. For those who don't have the right skills, the activity is not challenging; it is simply meaningless." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"In the 1960s, when abstract expressionism was the reigning style, those art students who tended to be sullen, brooding, and antisocial were thought by their teachers to be very creative." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The apologists for the medium claim that all sorts of interesting information is provided by television. This is true, but as it is much easier to produce programs that titillate rather than elevate the viewer, what most people watch is unlikely to help in developing the self." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"But a person who forgoes the use of his symbolic skills is never really free. His thinking will be directed by the opinions of his neighbors, by the editorials in the papers, and by the appeals of television. He will be at the mercy of 'experts." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"the past can never be literally true in memory: it must be continuously edited, and the question is only whether we take creative control of the editing or not." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Observing, recording, and preserving the memory of both the large and small events of life is one of the oldest and most satisfying ways to bring order to consciousness." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The optimal state of inner experience is one in which there is order in consciousness. This happens when psychic energy—or attention—is invested in realistic goals, and when skills match the opportunities for action. The pursuit of a goal brings order in awareness because a person must concentrate attention on the task at hand and momentarily forget everything else. These periods of struggling to overcome challenges are what people find to be the most enjoyable times of their lives (chapter 3). A person who has achieved control over psychic energy and has invested it in consciously chosen goals cannot help but grow into a more complex being. By stretching skills, by reaching toward higher challenges, such a person becomes an increasingly extraordinary individual." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"La persona que no puede resistirse a la comida o al alcohol, o cuya mente está siempre pensando en el sexo, no es libre para dirigir su energía psíquica." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"In the past few thousand years—a mere split second in evolutionary time—humanity has achieved incredible advances in the differentiation of consciousness. We have developed a realization that mankind is separate from other forms of life. We have conceived of individual human beings as separate from one another. We have invented abstraction and analysis—the ability to separate dimensions of objects and processes from each other, such as the velocity of a falling object from its weight and its mass. It is this differentiation that has produced science, technology, and the unprecedented power of mankind to build up and to destroy its environment. But complexity consists of integration as well as differentiation. The task of the next decades and centuries is to realize this underdeveloped component of the mind. Just as we have learned to separate ourselves from each other and from the environment, we now need to learn how to reunite ourselves with other entities around us without losing our hard-won individuality. The most promising faith for the future might be based on the realization that the entire universe is a system related by common laws and that it makes no sense to impose our dreams and desires on nature without taking them into account. Recognizing the limitations of human will, accepting a cooperative rather than a ruling role in the universe, we should feel the relief of the exile who is finally returning home. The problem of meaning will then be resolved as the individual's purpose merges with the universal flow." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"We are always getting to live,' as Ralph Waldo Emerson used to say, 'but never living.' Or as poor Frances learned in the children's story, it is always bread and jam tomorrow, never bread and jam today." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Flow is important both because it makes the present instant more enjoyable, and because it builds the self-confidence that allows us to develop skills and make significant contributions to humankind." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Cultures are defensive constructions against chaos, designed to reduce the impact of randomness on experience. They are adaptive responses, just as feathers are for birds and fur is for mammals. Cultures prescribe norms, evolve goals, build beliefs that help us tackle the challenges of existence. In so doing they must rule out many alternative goals and beliefs, and thereby limit possibilities; but this channeling of attention to a limited set of goals and means is what allows effortless action within self-created boundaries." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"In John Fletcher's words, 'Those have most power to hurt us that we love." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Happiness, in fact, is a condition that must be prepared for, cultivated, and defended privately by each person. People who learn to control inner experience will be able to determine the quality of their lives, which is as close as any of us can come to being happy." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Poets make much of the majestic eagle soaring freely among the snowy peaks. But the eyes of the eagle are generally focused on the ground, searching for rodents lurking in the shadows. The lives of much of humanity could be summed up in similar terms. Let" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Being in control of the mind means that literally anything that hap-pens can be a source of joy." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"the best moments in our lives, are not the passive, receptive, relaxing times—although such experiences can also be enjoyable, if we have worked hard to attain them. The best moments usually occur when a person's body or mind is stretched to its limits in a voluntary effort to accomplish something difficult and worthwhile. Optimal experience is thus something that we make happen." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"There is an old Italian saying: 'Il lavoro nobilita I'uomo, e lo rende simile alle bestie'; or, 'Work gives man nobility, and turns him into an animal." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Todo lo que experimentamos –gozo o dolor, interés o aburrimiento– se representa en la mente como información. Si somos capaces de controlar esta información, podremos decidir cómo será nuestra vida. El estado óptimo de experiencia interna es cuando hay orden en la conciencia. Esto sucede cuando la energía psíquica (o atención) se utiliza para obtener metas realistas y cuando las habilidades encajan con las oportunidades para actuar. La búsqueda de un objetivo trae orden a la conciencia porque una persona debe concentrar su atención en la tarea que está llevando a cabo y olvidarse momentáneamente de todo lo demás. Estos períodos de lucha para superar desafíos son lo que la gente define como los mejores momentos de su vida (capítulo 3). Una persona que ha conseguido controlar la energía psíquica y la ha utilizado conscientemente para obtener una meta no puede más que desarrollarse y convertirse en un ser más complejo. Al adiestrar nuestras habilidades, al enfrentarnos a desafíos superiores, tal persona se convierte, cada vez más, en un individuo extraordinario." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The mystique of climbing is climbing; you get to the top of a rock glad it's over but really wish it could go on forever. The justification of climbing is climbing, like the justification of poetry is writing; you don't conquer anything except things in yourself…. The act of writing justifies poetry. Climbing is the same: recognizing that you are a flow. The purpose of the flow is to keep on flowing, not looking for a peak or utopia but staying in the flow. It is not a moving up but a continuous flowing; you move up only to keep the flow going. There is no possible reason for climbing except the climbing itself; it is a self-communication. What" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"When a person becomes so dependent on the ability to control an enjoyable activity that he cannot pay attention to anything else, then he loses the ultimate control: the freedom to determine the content of consciousness. Thus enjoyable activities that produce flow have a potentially negative aspect: while they are capable of improving the quality of existence by creating order in the mind, they can become addictive, at which point the self becomes captive of a certain kind of order, and is then unwilling to cope with the ambiguities of life." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Because attention determines what will or will not appear in consciousness, and because it is also required to make any other mental events—such as remembering, thinking, feeling, and making decisions—happen there, it is useful to think of it as psychic energy. Attention is like energy in that without it no work can be done, and in doing work it is dissipated. We create ourselves by how we invest this energy. Memories, thoughts, and feelings are all shaped by how we use it. And it is an energy under our control, to do with as we please; hence, attention is our most important tool in the task of improving the quality of experience." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"During the ceremony celebrating the unveiling of Chicago's huge outdoor Picasso sculpture in the plaza across from City Hall, I happened to be standing next to a personal-injury lawyer with whom I was acquainted. As the inaugural speech droned on, I noticed a look of intense concentration on his face, and that his lips were moving. Asked what he was thinking, he answered that he was trying to estimate the amount of money the city was going to have to pay to settle suits involving children who got hurt climbing the sculpture. Was this lawyer lucky, because he could transform everything he saw into a professional problem his skills could master, and thus live in constant flow? Or was he depriving himself of an opportunity to grow by paying attention only to what he was already familiar with, and ignoring the aesthetic, civic, and social dimensions of the event? Perhaps both interpretations are accurate. In the long run, however, looking at the world exclusively from the little window that one's self affords is always limiting. Even the most highly respected physicist, artist, or politician becomes a hollow bore and ceases to enjoy life if all he can interest himself in is his limited role in the universe." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The worst solitude,' wrote Sir Francis Bacon, 'is to be destitute of sincere friendship." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The problem arises when people are so fixated on what they want to achieve that they cease to derive pleasure from the present. When that happens, they forfeit their chance of contentment." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Those who try to make life better for everyone without having learned to control their own lives first usually end up making things worse all around." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"And the reality is that the quality of life does not depend directly on what others think of us or on what we own. The bottom line is, rather, how we feel about ourselves and about what happens to us. To improve life one must improve the quality of experience." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"from the Latin verb amare, 'to love,' referred to a person who loved what he was doing. Similarly a 'dilettante,' from the Latin delectare, 'to find delight in," -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"During the years of early adulthood the future still looks promising, the hope remains that one's goals will be realized. But inevitably the bathroom mirror shows the first white hairs, and confirms the fact that those extra pounds are not about to leave; inevitably eyesight begins to fail and mysterious pains begin to shoot through the body. Like waiters in a restaurant starting to place breakfast settings on the surrounding tables while one is still having dinner, these intimations of mortality plainly communicate the message: Your time is up, it's time to move on. When this happens, few people are ready. 'Wait a minute, this can't be happening to me. I haven't even begun to live. Where's all that money I was supposed to have made? Where are all the good times I was going to have?' A feeling of having been led on, of being cheated, is an understandable consequence of this realization." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Control over consciousness cannot be institutionalized. As soon as it becomes part of a set of social rules and norms, it ceases to be effective in the way it was originally intended to be." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"it is never a waste to write for intrinsic reasons. First of all, writing gives the mind a disciplined means of expression. It allows one to record events and experiences so that they can be easily recalled, and relived in the future. It is a way to analyze and understand experiences, a self-communication that brings order to them." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"the human nervous system has become so complex that it is now able to affect its own states, making it to a certain extent functionally independent of its genetic blueprint and of the objective environment. A person can make himself happy, or miserable, regardless of what is actually happening 'outside,' just by changing the contents of consciousness. We all know individuals who can transform hopeless situations into challenges to be overcome, just through the force of their personalities." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"It does not matter whether we see or we not-see, as long as we are in control of what is happening to us. The same person can meditate in the morning and shut out all sensory experience, and then look at a great work of art in the afternoon; either way he may be transformed by the same sense of exhilaration." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"we develop a set of our own. The most important step in emancipating oneself from social controls is the ability to find rewards in the events of each moment. If a person learns to enjoy and find meaning in the ongoing stream of experience, in the process of living itself, the burden of social controls automatically falls from one's shoulders." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"potenciales" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Early ethnographers have described North American Plains Indians so hypnotically involved in gambling with buffalo rib bones that losers would often leave the tepee without clothes in the dead of winter, having wagered away their weapons, horses, and wives as well." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"consciousness is not a strictly linear system, but one in which circular causality obtains. Attention shapes the self, and is in turn shaped by it." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The important thing is that the energy is under their own control" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Yet we have all experienced times when, instead of being buffeted by anonymous forces, we do feel in control of our actions, masters of our own fate. On the rare occasions that it happens, we feel a sense of exhilaration, a deep sense of enjoyment that is long cherished and that becomes a landmark in memory for what life should be like. This is what we mean by optimal experience. It is what the sailor holding a tight course feels when the wind whips through her hair, when the boat lunges through the waves like a colt—sails, hull, wind, and sea humming a harmony that vibrates in the sailor's veins." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"psychic entropy." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Many people give up on learning after they leave school because thirteen or twenty years of extrinsically motivated education is still a source of unpleasant memories." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Ask yourself whether you are happy,' said J. S. Mill, 'and you cease to be so.' It is by being fully involved with every detail of our lives, whether good or bad, that we find happiness, not by trying to look for it directly." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The same is true of all flow experiences: there is a mutual relationship between goals and the effort they require. Goals justify the effort they demand at the outset, but later it is the effort that justifies the goal. One gets married because the spouse seems worthy of sharing one's life with, but unless one then behaves as if this is true, the partnership will appear to lose value with time. All" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"An open stance makes it possible for a person to be objective, to be aware of alternative possibilities, to feel a part of the surrounding world." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Unselfconscious self-assurance. [...] one common attitude shared by such people was the implicit belief that their destiny was in their hands." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"From the point of view of an individual, it does not matter what the ultimate goal is—provided it is compelling enough to order a lifetime's worth of psychic energy. The challenge might involve the desire to have the best beer-bottle collection in the neighborhood, the resolution to find a cure for cancer, or simply the biological imperative to have children who will survive and prosper. As long as it provides clear objectives, clear rules for action, and a way to concentrate and become involved, any goal can serve to give meaning to a person's life." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Unfortunately, while free time might be a necessary condition for happiness, by itself it is not sufficient to guarantee it. Learning how to use it beneficially turns out to be more difficult than expected. Nor does it seem that more of a good thing is necessarily better; as is true of so many other things, what enriches life in small quantities might impoverish it in larger doses." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"One of the main forces that affects consciousness adversely is psychic disorder—that is, information that conflicts with existing intentions, or distracts us from carrying them out. We give this condition many names, depending on how we experience it: pain, fear, rage, anxiety, or jealousy. All these varieties of disorder force attention to be diverted to undesirable objects, leaving us no longer free to use it according to our preferences. Psychic energy becomes unwieldy and ineffective." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The foremost reason that happiness is so hard to achieve is that the universe was not designed with the comfort of human beings in mind. It is almost immeasurably huge," -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"These periods of struggling to overcome challenges are what people find to be the most enjoyable times of their lives (chapter 3)." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"So people take intelligence very seriously, because the mental ability we call by that name can be measured by tests; whereas few bother about how sensitive, altruistic, or helpful someone is, because as yet there is no good way to measure such qualities." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"instead of using our physical and mental resources to experience flow, most of us spend many hours each week watching celebrated athletes playing in enormous stadiums. Instead of making music, we listen to platinum records cut by millionaire musicians. Instead of making art, we go to admire paintings that brought in the highest bids at the latest auction. We do not run risks acting on our beliefs, but occupy hours each day watching actors who pretend to have adventures, engaged in mock-meaningful action." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Such individuals lead vigorous lives, are open to a variety of experiences, keep on learning until the day they die, and have strong ties and commitments to other people and to the environment in which they live. They enjoy whatever they do, even if tedious or difficult; they are hardly ever bored," -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Preoccupation with the self consumes psychic energy because in everyday life we often feel threatened." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"When we feel that we are investing attention in a task against our will, it is as if our psychic energy is being wasted. Instead of helping us reach our own goals, it is called upon to make someone else's come true. The time channeled into such a task is perceived as time subtracted from the total available for our life. Many people consider their jobs as something they have to do, a burden imposed from the outside, an effort that takes life away from the ledger of their existence. So even though the momentary on-the-job experience may be positive, they tend to discount it, because it does not contribute to their own long-range goals." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"We often call the manifestation of intentionality by other names, such as instinct, need, drive, or desire." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The price one pays for changing goals whenever opposition threatens is that while one may achieve a more pleasant and comfortable life, it is likely that it will end up empty and void of meaning. The" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"But if it is true that people have known for thousands of years what it takes to become free and in control of one's life, why haven't we made more progress in this direction? Why are we as helpless, or more so, than our ancestors were in facing the chaos that interferes with happiness? There are at least two good explanations for this failure. In the first place, the kind of knowledge—or wisdom—one needs for emancipating consciousness is not cumulative. It cannot be condensed into a formula; it cannot be memorized and then routinely applied. Like other complex forms of expertise, such as a mature political judgment or a refined aesthetic sense, it must be earned through trial-and-error experience by each individual, generation after generation. Control over consciousness is not simply a cognitive skill. At least as much as intelligence, it requires the commitment of emotions and will. It is not enough to know how to do it; one must do it, consistently, in the same way as athletes or musicians who must keep practicing what they know in theory. And this is never easy. Progress is relatively fast in fields that apply knowledge to the material world, such as physics or genetics. But it is painfully slow when knowledge is to be applied to modify our own habits and desires." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"To many people activities like working or raising children provide more flow than playing a game or painting a picture, because these individuals have learned to perceive opportunities in such mundane tasks that others do not see." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"be" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The pleasure we take in eating is an efficient way to ensure that the body will get the nourishment it needs. The pleasure of sexual intercourse is an equally practical method for the genes to program the body to reproduce and thereby to ensure the continuity of the genes." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"I am free, free in my work, because I do whatever I want. If I don't do something today I will do it tomorrow. I don't have a boss, I am the boss of my own life. I have kept my freedom and I have fought for my freedom." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"establishing priorities among all the diverse information. Without consciousness we would still 'know' what is going on, but we would have to react to it in a reflexive, instinctive way. With consciousness, we can deliberately weigh what the senses tell us, and respond accordingly." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"aim at success—the more you aim at it and make it a target, the more you are going to miss it. For success, like happiness, cannot be pursued; it must ensue…as the unintended side-effect of one's personal dedication to a course greater than oneself." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Why are we as helpless, or more so, than our ancestors were in facing the chaos that interferes with happiness? There are at least two good explanations for this failure. In the first place, the kind of knowledge—or wisdom—one needs for emancipating consciousness is not cumulative. It cannot be condensed into a formula; it cannot be memorized and then routinely applied. Like other complex forms of expertise, such as a mature political judgment or a refined aesthetic sense, it must be earned through trial-and-error experience by each individual, generation after generation. Control over consciousness is not simply a cognitive skill. At least as much as intelligence, it requires the commitment of emotions and will. It is not enough to know how to do it; one must do it, consistently, in the same way as athletes or musicians who must keep practicing what they know in theory. And this is never easy. Progress is relatively fast in fields that apply knowledge to the material world, such as physics or genetics. But it is painfully slow when knowledge is to be applied to modify our own habits and desires. Second, the knowledge of how to control consciousness must be reformulated every time the cultural context changes. The wisdom of the mystics, of the Sufi, of the great yogis, or of the Zen masters might have been excellent in their own time—and might still be the best, if we lived in those times and in those cultures. But when transplanted to contemporary California those systems lose quite a bit of their original power. They contain elements that are specific to their original contexts, and when these accidental components are not distinguished from what is essential, the path to freedom gets overgrown by brambles of meaningless mumbo jumbo. Ritual form wins over substance, and" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"la felicidad no es algo que sucede. No es el resultado de la buena suerte o del azar. No es algo que pueda comprarse con dinero o con poder. No parece depender de los acontecimientos externos, sino más bien de cómo los interpretamos. De hecho, la felicidad es una condición vital que cada persona debe preparar, cultivar y defender individualmente. Las personas que saben controlar su experiencia interna son capaces de determinar la calidad de sus vidas, eso es lo más cerca que podemos estar de ser felices." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"If we do actually succeed in becoming richer, or more powerful, we believe, at least for a time, that life as a whole has improved. But symbols can be deceptive: they have a tendency to distract from the reality they are supposed to represent. And the reality is that the quality of life does not depend directly on what others think of us or on what we own. The bottom line is, rather, how we feel about ourselves and about what happens to us. To improve life one must improve the quality of experience." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"To overcome the anxieties and depressions of contemporary life, individuals must become independent of the social environment to the degree that they no longer respond exclusively in terms of its rewards and punishments." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"It is how people respond to stress that determines whether they will profit from misfortune or be miserable." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Pero si una persona se toma unos momentos para reflexionar, el desencanto vuelve: tras cada éxito se ve con mayor claridad que el dinero, el poder, la posición social y las posesiones, por sí mismas, no añaden ni un ápice a la calidad de vida." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Having a record of the past can make a great contribution to the quality of life. It frees us from the tyranny of the present, and makes it possible for consciousness to revisit former times." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"But for a person who has nothing to remember, life can become severely impoverished. This possibility was completely overlooked by educational reformers early in this century, who, armed with research results, proved that 'rote learning' was not an efficient way to store and acquire information. As a result of their efforts, rote learning was phased out of the schools. The reformers would have had justification, if the point of remembering was simply to solve practical problems. But if control of consciousness is judged to be at least as important as the ability to get things done, then learning complex patterns of information by heart is by no means a waste of effort." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"A more substantive potential use of words to enhance our lives is the lost art of conversation." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"A good example of this method is the act of walking, which is as simple a use of the body as one can imagine, yet which can become a complex flow activity, almost an art form. A great number of different goals might be set for a walk. For instance, the choice of the itinerary: where one wishes to go, and by what route. Within the overall route, one might select places to stop, or certain landmarks to see. Another goal may be to develop a personal style, a way to move the body easily and efficiently. An economy of motion that maximizes physical well-being is another obvious goal. For measuring progress, the feedback may include how fast and how easily the intended distance was covered; how many interesting sights one has seen; and how many new ideas or feelings were entertained along the way." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The essence of socialization is to make people dependent on social controls, to have them respond predictably to rewards and punishments. And" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Unselfconscious self-assurance. [...] one common attitude shared by such people was the implicit belief that their destiny was in their hands. [...] This attitude occurs when a person no longer sees himself in opposition to the environment, as an individual who insists that his goals, his intentions take precedence over everything else." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"But it seems clear that an increasing majority are not being helped by traditional religions and belief systems. Many are unable to separate the truth in the old doctrines from the distortions and degradations that time has added, and since they cannot accept error, they reject the truth as well. Others are so desperate for some order that they cling rigidly to whatever belief happens to be at hand—warts and all—and become fundamentalist Christians, or Muslims, or communists." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Practically every desire that has become part of human nature, from sexuality to aggression, from a longing for security to a receptivity to change, has been exploited as a source of social control by politicians, churches, corporations, and advertisers." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Without enjoyment life can be endured, and it can even be pleasant. But it can be so only precariously, depending on luck and the cooperation of the external environment. To gain personal control over the quality of experience, however, one needs to learn how to build enjoyment into what happens day in, day out." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"the encounter from a holdup to one that involved, at least to some degree, a rational democratic decision. In this case his success was largely dependent on luck: the robbers could have been drunk, or alienated beyond the reach of reason, and then he might have been seriously hurt. But the point is still valid: human relations are malleable, and if a person has the appropriate skills their rules can be transformed. But before considering in more depth how relationships can be reshaped to provide optimal experiences, it is necessary to take a detour through the realms of solitude. Only after understanding a bit better how being alone affects the mind can we see more clearly why companionship is so indispensable to well-being." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The true believer also becomes part of the system in concrete terms, because his psychic energy will be focused and shaped by the goals and rules of his belief. But the true believer is not really interacting with the belief system; he usually lets his psychic energy be absorbed by it. From this submission nothing new can come; consciousness may attain a welcome order, but it will be an order imposed rather than achieved. At best the self of the true believer resembles a crystal: strong and beautifully symmetrical, but very slow to grow." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"But even when there is nothing else pressing occupying their minds, most people fall far below the peak capacity for processing information. In the roughly one-third of the day that is free of obligations, in their precious 'leisure' time, most people in fact seem to use their minds as little as possible." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Men are not afraid of things, but of how they view them,' said Epictetus" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Yet such blows do not necessarily diminish happiness. It is how people respond to stress that determines whether they will profit from misfortune or be miserable." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"one begins to harvest the genuine rewards of living. But it is not by abandoning ourselves to instinctual desires that we become free of social controls. We must also become independent from the dictates of the body, and learn to take charge of what happens in the mind. Pain and pleasure occur in consciousness and exist only there. As long as we obey the socially conditioned stimulus-response patterns that exploit our biological inclinations, we are controlled from the outside." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"When a person's psychic energy coalesces into a life theme, consciousness achieves harmony." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Contrariamente a lo que creemos normalmente, los momentos como éstos, los mejores momentos de nuestra vida, no son momentos pasivos, receptivos o relajados (aunque tales experiencias también pueden ser placenteras si hemos trabajado duramente para conseguirlas). Los mejores momentos suelen suceder cuando el cuerpo o la mente de una persona han llegado hasta su límite en un esfuerzo voluntario para conseguir algo difícil y que valiera la pena. Una experiencia óptima es algo que hacemos que suceda. Para un niño puede ser poner con sus temblorosos dedos el último bloque de una torre que ha construido, más alta que todas las que ha construido hasta entonces;" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"the personal happiness rating of U.S. citizens was about the same as that of Cubans and Egyptians, whose per-capita GNPs were respectively five and over ten times less than that of the Americans. West Germans and Nigerians came out with identical happiness ratings, despite an over fifteenfold difference in per-capita GNP. So far, these discrepancies only demonstrate that our instruments for measuring optimal experience are still very primitive. Yet the fact that differences do exist seems incontestable. Despite ambiguous findings, all large-scale surveys agree that citizens of nations that are more affluent, better educated, and ruled by more stable governments report higher levels of happiness and satisfaction with life." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"At work one must behave according to the expectations for one's role, and be a competent mechanic, a sober judge, a deferent waiter. At home one has to be a caring mother or a respectful son. And in between, on the bus or the subway, one has to turn an impassive face to the world. It is only with friends that most people feel they can let their hair down and be themselves. Because we choose friends who share our ultimate goals, these are the people with whom we can sing, dance, share jokes, or go bowling. It is in the company of friends that we can most clearly experience the freedom of the self and learn who we really are." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"WE HAVE SEEN HOW PEOPLE DESCRIBE the common characteristics of optimal experience: a sense that one's skills are adequate to cope with the challenges at hand, in a goal-directed, rule-bound action system that provides clear clues as to how well one is performing. Concentration is so intense that there is no attention left over to think about anything irrelevant, or to worry about problems. Self-consciousness disappears, and the sense of time becomes distorted. An activity that produces such experiences is so gratifying that people are willing to do it for its own sake, with little concern for what they will get out of it, even when it is difficult, or dangerous." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"THE AUTOTELIC SELF: A SUMMARY" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"We grow up believing that what counts most in our lives is that which will occur in the future." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"How we feel about ourselves, the joy we get from living, ultimately depend directly on how the mind filters and interprets everyday experiences. Whether we are happy depends on inner harmony, not on the controls we are able to exert over the great forces of the universe." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"WE HAVE SEEN HOW PEOPLE DESCRIBE the common characteristics of optimal experience: a sense that one's skills are adequate to cope with the challenges at hand, in a goal-directed, rule-bound action system that provides clear clues as to how well one is performing. Concentration is so intense that there is no attention left over to think about anything irrelevant, or to worry about problems." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Shaping one's own reality, living in a world one has created, can be as enjoyable as writing a symphony. No" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The original condition of human beings, prior to the development of self-reflective consciousness, must have been a state of inner peace disturbed only now and again by tides of hunger, sexuality, pain, and danger. The forms of psychic entropy that currently cause us so much anguish—unfulfilled wants, dashed expectations, loneliness, frustration, anxiety, guilt—are all likely to have been recent invaders of the mind. They are by-products of the tremendous increase in complexity of the cerebral cortex and of the symbolic enrichment of culture. They are the dark side of the emergence of consciousness." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"THERE ARE TWO main strategies we can adopt to improve the quality of life. The first is to try making external conditions match our goals. The second is to change how we experience external conditions to make them fit our goals better." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"flow—the state in which people are so involved in an activity that nothing else seems to matter; the experience itself is so enjoyable that people will do it even at great cost, for the sheer sake of doing it." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"concupiscencia." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"to impose order in consciousness through the performance of patterned action." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"This dry definition, accurate as it is, does not fully suggest the importance of what it conveys. Since for us outside events do not exist unless we are aware of them, consciousness corresponds to subjectively experienced reality. While everything we feel, smell, hear, or remember is potentially a candidate for entering consciousness, the experiences that actually do become part of it are much fewer than those left out. Thus, while consciousness is a mirror that reflects what our senses tell us about what happens both outside our bodies and within the nervous system, it reflects those changes selectively, actively shaping events, imposing on them a reality of its own. The reflection consciousness provides is what we call our life: the sum of all we have heard, seen, felt, hoped, and suffered from birth to death. Although we believe that there are 'things' outside consciousness, we have direct evidence only of those that find a place in it. As" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"psychic entropy, a disorganization of the self that impairs its effectiveness. Prolonged experiences of this kind can weaken the self to the point that it is no longer able to invest attention and pursue its goals." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"the universe was not created to answer our needs. Frustration is deeply woven into the fabric of life. And whenever some of our needs are temporarily met, we immediately start wishing for more." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Ideally, the end of extrinsically applied education should be the start of an education that is motivated intrinsically. At that point the goal of studying is no longer to make the grade, earn a diploma, and find a good job. Rather, it is to understand what is happening around one, to develop a personally meaningful sense of what one's experience is all about. From that will come the profound joy of the thinker, like that experienced by the disciples of Socrates that Plato describes in Philebus: 'The young man who has drunk for the first time from that spring is as happy as if he had found a treasure of wisdom; he is positively enraptured. He will pick up any discourse, draw all its ideas together to make them into one, then take them apart and pull them to pieces. He will puzzle first himself, then also others, badger whoever comes near him, young and old, sparing not even his parents, nor anyone who is willing to listen….' The quotation is about twenty-four centuries old, but a contemporary observer could not describe more vividly what happens when a person first discovers the flow of the mind." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"»Wir stehen immer kurz davor zu leben«, sagte Ralph Waldo Emerson, »aber wir leben nie.«" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"If one prays in order to be holy, or exercises to develop strong pectoral muscles, or learns to be knowledgeable, then a great deal of the benefit is lost. The important thing is to enjoy the activity for its own sake, and to know that what matters is not the result, but the control one is acquiring over one's attention." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"But repression is not the way to virtue. When people restrain themselves out of fear, their lives are by necessity diminished. They become rigid and defensive, and their self stops growing. Only through freely chosen discipline can life be enjoyed, and still kept within the bounds of reason. If a person learns to control his instinctual desires, not because he has to, but because he wants to, he can enjoy himself without becoming addicted. A fanatical devotee of food is just as boring to himself and to others as the ascetic who refuses to indulge his taste. Between these two extremes, there is quite a bit of room for improving the quality of life." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The psychic entropy peculiar to the human condition involves seeing more to do than one can actually accomplish and feeling able to accomplish more than what conditions allow." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"We grow up believing that what counts most in our lives is that which will occur in the future. Parents teach children that if they learn good habits now, they will be better off as adults. Teachers assure pupils that the boring classes will benefit them later, when the students are going to be looking for jobs. The company vice president tells junior employees to have patience and work hard, because one of these days they will be promoted to the executive ranks. At the end of the long struggle for advancement, the golden years of retirement beckon." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"How we feel at any given moment of a flow activity is strongly influenced by the objective conditions; but consciousness is still free to follow its own assessment of the case." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"One of the most basic delusions of our time is that home life takes care of itself naturally, and that the best strategy for dealing with it is to relax and let it take its course. Men especially like to comfort themselves with this notion. They know how hard it is to succeed on the job, how much effort they have to put into their careers. So at home they just want to unwind, and feel that any serious demand from the family is unwarranted. They often have an almost superstitious faith in the integrity of the home. Only when it is too late—when the wife has become dependent on alcohol, when the children have turned into cold strangers—do many men wake up to the fact that the family, like any other joint enterprise, needs constant investments of psychic energy to assure its existence." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Attention can be invested in innumerable ways, ways that can make life either rich or miserable." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"while personal income in the U.S. more than doubled between i 96o and the 19gos in constant dollars, the proportion of people saying they are very happy remained a steady 30 percent. One conclusion that the findings seem to justify is that beyond the threshold of poverty, additional resources do not appreciably improve the chances of being happy." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Control over consciousness is not simply a cognitive skill. At least as much as intelligence, it requires the commitment of emotions and will. It is not enough to know how to do it; one must do it, consistently, in the same way as athletes or musicians who must keep practicing what they know in theory. And this is never easy. Progress is relatively fast in fields that apply knowledge to the material world, such as physics or genetics. But it is painfully slow when knowledge is to be applied to modify our own habits and desires." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"A community should be judged good not because it is technologically advanced, or swimming in material riches; it is good if it offers people a chance to enjoy as many aspects of their lives as possible, while allowing them to develop their potential in the pursuit of ever greater challenges." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"while humankind collectively has increased its material powers a thousandfold, it has not advanced very far in terms of improving the content of experience." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Instead of feeling oppressed by the necessity to work hard, they share the opinion of Giuliana B., a seventy-four-year-old lady: 'I am free, free in my work, because I do whatever I want. If I don't do something today I will do it tomorrow. I don't have a boss, I am the boss of my own life. I have kept my freedom and I have fought for my freedom.' Certainly," -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"This cultural hubris, or overweening presumption about what we are entitled to from a universe that is basically insensitive to human needs, generally leads to trouble." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"It is usual to explain the motivation of those who enjoy dangerous activities as some sort of pathological need: they are trying to exorcise a deep-seated fear, they are compensating, they are compulsively reenacting an Oedipal fixation, they are 'sensation seekers.' While such motives may be occasionally involved, what is most striking, when one actually speaks to specialists in risk, is how their enjoyment derives not from the danger itself, but from their ability to minimize it." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"the apathy of many of the people around us is not due to their being physically or mentally exhausted. The problem seems to lie more in the modern worker's relation to his job, with the way he perceives his goals in relation to it. When we feel that we are investing attention in a task against our will, it is as if our psychic energy is being wasted. Instead of helping us reach our own goals, it is called upon to make someone else's come true. The time channeled into such a task is perceived as time subtracted from the total available for our life. Many people consider their jobs as something they have to do, a burden imposed from the outside, an effort that takes life away from the ledger of their existence. So even though the momentary on-the-job experience may be positive, they tend to discount it, because it does not contribute to their own long-range goals." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"what we call religion is actually the oldest and most ambitious attempt to create order in consciousness." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Проблемы начинаются, когда люди настолько сосредоточиваются на своих целях, что перестают получать удовольствие от настоящего." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"This simple truth—that the control of consciousness determines the quality of life—has been known for a long time; in fact, for as long as human records exist." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Pleasure is a feeling of contentment that one achieves whenever information in consciousness says that expectations set by biological programs or by social conditioning have been met." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"But whatever the dictates of fashion, it seems that those who take the trouble to gain mastery over what happens in consciousness do live a happier life." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"As Francis Bacon remarked, quoting from a speech by the Stoic philosopher Seneca, 'The good things which belong to prosperity are to be wished, but the good things that belong to adversity are to be admired." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"modo" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Even the approach of death itself can serve to create harmony in consciousness, rather than despair." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Leisure that uses up external resources, however, often requires less attention, and as a consequence it generally provides less memorable rewards." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Given the recurring need to return to this central question of how to achieve mastery over one's life, what does the present state of knowledge say about it? How can it help a person learn to rid himself of anxieties and fears and thus become free of the controls of society, whose rewards he can now take or leave? As suggested before, the way is through control over consciousness, which in turn leads to control over the quality of experience. Any small gain in that direction will make life more rich, more enjoyable, more meaningful." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"One does not get to be a man by getting married, by having sex: to be a man means to be responsible, to know when it is time to speak, to know what has to be said, to know when one must stay silent." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The challenges of the activity are what force us to concentrate." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"hay una manera de salir del bosque oscuro, pero la mala noticia es que el camino atraviesa el infierno. Y" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Given that we are who we are, with whatever hang-ups and repressions, what can we do to improve our future? To overcome the anxieties and depressions of contemporary life, individuals must become independent of the social environment to the degree that they no longer respond exclusively in terms of its rewards and punishments. To achieve such autonomy, a person has to learn to provide rewards to herself. She has to develop the ability to find enjoyment and purpose regardless of external circumstances." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The foremost reason that happiness is so hard to achieve is that the universe was not designed with the comfort of human beings in mind. It is almost immeasurably huge, and most of it is hostilely empty and cold." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"What love is to the heart, appetite is to the stomach. The stomach is the conductor that leads and livens up the great orchestra of our emotions." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"parents were significantly more happy, satisfied, and strong in most life situations than their peers who" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The most important step in emancipating oneself from social controls is the ability to find rewards in the events of each moment. If a person learns to enjoy and find meaning in the ongoing stream of experience, in the process of living itself, the burden of social controls automatically" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"As with any other flow activity, family activities should also provide clear feedback. In this case, it is simply a matter of keeping open channels of communication. If a husband does not know what bothers his wife, and vice versa, neither has the opportunity to reduce the inevitable tensions that will arise. In this context it is worth stressing that entropy is the basic condition of group life, just as it is of personal experience. Unless the partners invest psychic energy in the relationship, conflicts are inevitable, simply because each individual has goals that are to a certain extent divergent from those of all other members of the family. Without good lines of communication the distortions will become amplified, until the relationship falls apart. Feedback" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Opuesto a ellos está el Yo, que se ocupa de las necesidades genuinas de la persona relacionadas con su entorno concreto." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The most detailed information about who we are as individuals comes from those we communicate with, and from the way we accomplish our jobs." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"if we don't take charge of its direction, our life will be controlled by the outside to serve the purpose of some other agency. Biologically programmed instincts will use it to replicate the genetic material we carry; the culture will make sure that we use it to propagate its values and institutions; and other peoplewill try to take as much of our energy as possible to further their own agenda-all of this without regard to how any of this will affect us. We cannot expect anyone to help us live; we must discover how to do it by ourselves." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Unfortunately, too many adults feel that once they have hit twenty or thirty—or certainly forty—they are entitled to relax in whatever habitual grooves they have established." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"If a person is unwilling to adjust personal goals when starting a relationship, then a lot of what subsequently happens in that relationship will produce disorder in the person's consciousness, because novel patterns of interaction will conflict with old patterns of expectation." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"It is the full involvement of flow, rather than happiness, that makes for excellence in life. When we are in flow, we are not happy, because to experience happiness we must focus on our inner states, and that would take away attention from the task at hand." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"It is probably true that humans, like the majority of mammalian species, are not monogamous by nature. It is impossible for partners not to grow bored unless they work to discover new challenges in each other's company, and learn appropriate skills for enriching the relationship. Initially physical challenges alone are enough to sustain flow, but unless romance and genuine care also develop, the relationship will grow stale." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The instructions contained in our genes, the pull of gravity, the pollen in the air, the historical period into which we are born—these and innumerable other conditions determine what we see, how we feel, what we do. It is not surprising that we should believe that our fate is primarily ordained by outside agencies. Yet we have all experienced times when, instead of being buffeted by anonymous forces, we do feel in control of our actions, masters of our own fate. On the rare occasions that it happens, we feel a sense of exhilaration, a deep sense of enjoyment that is long cherished and that becomes" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"In normal life, we keep interrupting what we do with doubts and questions. 'Why am I doing this? Should I perhaps be doing something else?' Repeatedly we question the necessity of our actions, and evaluate critically the reasons for carrying them out. But in flow there is no need to reflect, because the action carries us forward as if by magic." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"of the Zen masters might have been excellent in their own time—and might still be the best, if" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"This ability to persevere despite obstacles and setbacks is the quality people most admire in others, and justly so; it is probably the most important trait not only for succeeding in life, but for enjoying it as well." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"When people ponder further about what makes their lives rewarding, they tend to move beyond pleasant memories and begin to remember other events, other experiences that overlap with pleasurable ones but fall into a category that deserves a separate name: enjoyment. Enjoyable events occur when a person has not only met some prior expectation or satisfied a need or a desire but also gone beyond what he or she has been programmed to do and achieved something unexpected, perhaps something even unimagined before. Enjoyment is characterized by this forward movement: by a sense of novelty, of accomplishment." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Individuals who depart from the norms—heroes, saints, sages, artists, and poets, as well as madmen and criminals—look for different things in life than most others do." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"When all a person's relevant skills are needed to cope with the challenges of a situation, that person's attention is completely absorbed by the activity." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Marco Aurelio escribió: «Si te sientes dolido por las cosas externas, no son éstas las que te molestan, sino tu propio juicio acerca de ellas. Y está en tu poder el cambiar este juicio ahora mismo»." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Ideally, the end of extrinsically applied education should be the start of an education that is motivated intrinsically." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"It is true that if one finds flow in work, and in relations with other people, one is well on the way toward improving the quality of life as a whole." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Inner conflict is the result of competing claims on attention." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"are also perceived: to find out what sort of a person the other really is, what movies she likes, what he thinks about South Africa, and whether the encounter is likely to develop into a 'meaningful relationship.' Then there are fun things to do together, places to visit, parties to go to and talk about afterward, and so on." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Ask yourself whether you are happy,' said J. S. Mill, 'and you cease to be so." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"A person who is healthy, rich, strong, and powerful has no greater odds of being in control of his consciousness than one who is sickly, poor, weak, and oppressed. The difference between someone who enjoys life and someone who is overwhelmed by it is a product of a combination of such external factors and the way a person has come to interpret them—that is, whether he sees challenges as threats or as opportunities for action." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Everything the body can do is potentially enjoyable. Yet many people ignore this capacity, and use their physical equipment as little as possible, leaving its ability to provide flow unexploited." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The optimal state of inner experience is one in which there is order in consciousness. This happens when psychic energy—or attention—is invested in realistic goals, and when skills match the opportunities for action. The pursuit of a goal brings order in awareness because a person must concentrate attention on the task at hand and momentarily forget everything else. These periods of struggling to overcome challenges are what people find to be the most enjoyable times of their lives" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"This fact brings us to the second condition that affects whether an optimal experience will occur or not: an individual's ability to restructure consciousness so as to make flow possible." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Involvement is greatly facilitated by the ability to concentrate. People who suffer from attentional disorders, who cannot keep their minds from wandering, always feel left out of the flow of life." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"When we choose a goal and invest ourselves in it to the limits of our concentration, whatever we do will be enjoyable. And once we have tasted this joy, we will redouble our efforts to taste it again." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"when we are left alone, with no demands on attention, the basic disorder of the mind reveals itself. With nothing to do, it begins to follow random patterns, usually stopping to consider something painful or disturbing. Unless a person knows how to give order to his or her thoughts, attention will be attracted to whatever is most problematic at the moment: it will focus on some real or imaginary pain, on recent grudges or long-term frustrations. Entropy is the normal state of consciousness—a condition that is neither useful nor enjoyable." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Because our present social arrangements, however, do not provide adequate challenges for the skills teenagers have, they must discover opportunities for action outside those sanctioned by adults." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"¿O el malestar penetrante que a menudo nos amarga hasta los instantes más preciosos es el resultado de buscar la felicidad en el lugar equivocado?" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"From our point of view, what is important to realize is that attentional disorders not only interfere with learning, but effectively rule out the possibility of experiencing flow as well. When a person cannot control psychic energy, neither learning nor true enjoyment is possible." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"A major catastrophe that frustrates a central goal of life will either destroy the self, forcing a person to use all his psychic energy to erect a barrier around remaining goals, defending them against further onslaughts of fate; or it will provide a new, more clear, and more urgent goal: to overcome the challenges created by the defeat." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Flow – the state in which people are so involved in an activity that nothing else seems to matter; the experience itself is so enjoyable that people will do it even at great cost, for the sheer sake of doing it." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The record seems to suggest that a society begins to rely heavily on leisure-and especially on passive leisure-only when it has become incapable of offering meaningful productive occupation to its members." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Purpose gives direction to one's efforts, but it does not necessarily make life easier. Goals can lead into all sorts of trouble, at which point one gets tempted to give them up and find some less demanding script by which to order one's actions. The price one pays for changing goals whenever opposition threatens is that while one may achieve a more pleasant and comfortable life, it is likely that it will end up empty and void of meaning." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The other danger in becoming involved with culinary delights—and here again the parallels with sex are obvious—is that they can become addictive. It" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"AT CERTAIN TIMES in history cultures have taken it for granted that a person wasn't fully human unless he or she learned to master thoughts and feelings." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Whosoever is delighted in solitude,' goes the old saying that Francis Bacon repeated, 'is either a wild beast or a god." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Altius, citius, fortius—is" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"As long as a significant segment of society has few opportunities to encounter meaningful challenges, and few chances to develop the skills necessary to benefit from them, we must expect that violence and crime will attract those who cannot find their way to more complex autotelic experiences." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"A thoroughly socialized person is one who desires only the rewards that others around him have agreed he should long for—rewards often grafted onto genetically programmed desires." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"competition as their main feature, such as most sports and athletic events; alea is the class that includes all games of chance, from dice to bingo; ilinx, or vertigo, is the name he gives to activities that alter consciousness by scrambling ordinary perception, such as riding a merry-go-round or skydiving; and mimicry is the group of activities in which alternative realities are created, such as dance, theater, and the arts in general." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Peasant women in Eastern Europe, for instance, were not judged to be ready for marriage unless they had learned to cook a different soup for each day of the year." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Compared to people living only a few generations ago, we have enormously greater opportunities to have a good time, yet there is no indication that we actually enjoy life more than our ancestors did. Opportunities alone, however, are not enough. We also need the skills to make use of them." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"the information we allow into consciousness becomes extremely important; it in, in fact, what determines the content and quality of life." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Fundamentalist religions, mass movements, and extremist political parties also offer opportunities for self-transcendence that millions are eager to accept. They also provide a welcome extension of the boundaries of the self, a feeling that one is involved in something great and powerful. The true believer also becomes part of the system in concrete terms, because his psychic energy will be focused and shaped by the goals and rules of his belief. But the true believer is not really interacting with the belief system; he usually lets his psychic energy be absorbed by it. From this submission" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"the robbers could have been drunk, or alienated beyond the reach of reason, and then he might have been seriously hurt. But the point is still valid: human relations are malleable, and if a person has the appropriate skills their rules can be transformed." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"glorify and justify goals in terms of tangible experience. According to Sorokin, sensate culture predominated in Europe from about 440 to about 200 B.C., with a peak between 420 and 400 B.C.; it has become dominant once again in the past century or so, at least in the advanced capitalist democracies." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"A self that is only differentiated—not integrated—may attain great individual accomplishments, but risks being mired in self-centered egotism. By the same token, a person whose self is based exclusively on integration will be connected and secure, but lack autonomous individuality. Only when a person invests equal amounts of psychic energy in these two processes and avoids both selfishness and conformity is the self likely to reflect complexity." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The best moments usually occur when a person's body or mind is stretched to its limits in a voluntary effort to accomplish something difficult and worthwhile. Optimal experience is thus something that we make happen." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The ability to take misfortune and make something good come of it is a very rare gift. Those who possess it are called 'survivors,' and are said to have 'resilience,' or 'courage." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Men are not afraid of things, but of how they view them,' said Epictetus a long time ago. And the great emperor Marcus Aurelius wrote: 'If you are pained by external things, it is not they that disturb you, but your own judgment of them. And it is in your power to wipe out that judgment now." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"ban fire because it could be used to burn things down, we would not have grown to be very different from the great apes. As Democritus said so simply many centuries ago: 'Water can be both good and bad, useful and dangerous. To the danger, however, a remedy has been found: learning to swim.' To swim in this case involves learning to distinguish the useful and the harmful forms of flow, and then making the most of the former while placing limits on the latter. The task is to learn how to enjoy everyday life without diminishing other people's chances to enjoy theirs." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"In a threatening situation it is natural to mobilize psychic energy, draw it inward, and use it as a defense against the threat. But this innate reaction more often than not compromises the ability to cope. It exacerbates the experience of inner turmoil, reduces the flexibility of response, and, perhaps worse than anything else, it isolates a person from the rest of the world, leaving him alone with his frustrations. On the other hand, if one continues to stay in touch with what is going on, new possibilities are likely to emerge, which in turn might suggest new responses, and one is less likely to be entirely cut off from the stream of life." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"As people move through life, passing from the hopeful ignorance of youth into sobering adulthood, they inevitably face an increasingly nagging question: Is this all there is? Childhood can be painful, adolescence confusing; most people, expect that in adulthood things will get better. During the early years of adulthood the future still looks promising. But inevitably the mirror' shows the first white hairs and confirms the fact that those few extra pounds are not about to leave; eyesight begins to fail and mysterious pains begin to shoot through the body...' Where's all that money I was to have made? Where are all of the good times I was going to have?" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Great art and great science involve a leap of imagination into a world that is different from the present." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Thus the creative process is less linear than recursive. How many iterations it goes through, how many loops are involved, how many insights are needed, depends on the depth and breadth of the issues dealt with." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"If one does not use the mind to its fullest, then good feelings fulfill just a fraction of the potential we possess." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The word success is an ambiguous word. Success with respect to the outside? Or success with respect to oneself? And if it is a success with respect to the outside, then how do you evaluate it? Very often outside success is irrelevant, wrong, and misplaced. So how can one talk about it? Externally, you may think I am successful because people write about some aspects of my work. But that is an external judgment. And I have no idea as to how to value that judgment." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"When people reflect on how it feels when their experience is most positive, they mention at least one, and often all, of the following. First, the experience usually occurs when we confront tasks we have a chance of completing. Second, we must be able to concentrate on what we are doing. Third and fourth, the concentration is usually possible because the task undertaken has clear goals and provides immediate feedback. Fifth, one acts with a deep but effortless involvement that removes from awareness the worries and frustrations of everyday life. Sixth, enjoyable experiences allow people to exercise a sense of control over their actions. Seventh, concern for the self disappears, yet paradoxically the sense of self emerges stronger after the flow experience is over. Finally, the sense of the duration of time is altered; hours pass by in minutes, and minutes can stretch out to seem like hours." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"what you are doing is sort of architectural. You have to have a design in view, in which you design a chapter, or a proof of a theorem, as the case may be. Then you have to put it together out of words or out of symbols as the case may be, but if you don't have a clear architecture in mind then the thing won't end up being any good." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The conventional explanation is that Raphael, Mendel, and Bach were always creative, only their reputation changed with the vagaries of social recognition. But the systems model recognizes the fact that creativity cannot be separated from its recognition. Mendel was not creative during his years of relative obscurity because his experimental findings were not that important until a group of British geneticists, at the end of the nineteenth century, recognized their implications for evolution." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"More serious health, family, or financial problems could occupy the mind of a person so insistently that he or she is no longer able to devote enough attention to work. Then a long period of drought may follow, a writer's block, a burnout, which may even end a creative career. It is this kind of distraction that Jacob Rabinow talks about: Freedom from worry is one thing—that you don't have any problem of health or sickness in the family or something that occupies your mind. Or financial worries, that you're going crazy about how you're going to pay the next bill. Or children's worries, or drugs or something. No, it's nice to be free of responsibility. That doesn't mean you have no responsibility to the project, but to be free of other things. And you're not likely to be an inventor if you're very sick. You're too busy with your problems, too many pains. Many of our respondents were thankful to their spouses for providing a buffer from exactly these kinds of distractions. This was especially true of the men; the women sometimes mentioned pointedly that they also would have liked to have had a wife to spare them from worries that interfered with their concentration on work." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"It is true that sincetime immemorial those who paid another person's wages were not particularly concerned with the well-being of their employees. It takes extraordinary inner resources to achieve flow while digging a mile below ground in a South African mine, or cutting sugarcane on a sweltering plantation. Even in our enlightened days, with all the emphasis on ""human resources,"" management is all too often disinterested in how employees experience work." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Por supuesto, estas correlaciones no significan necesariamente que los hábitos de ocio pasivo produzcan malos empleos, malas relaciones, etc., etc. Es probable que los vínculos causales empiecen por el otro extremo: las personas solitarias con empleos insatisfactorios llenarán su tiempo libre con ocio pasivo. O los que no pueden encontrar de otra forma los estados de fluidez en su vida recurren a actividades de ocio que no exigen gran esfuerzo. Pero en el desarrollo humano la relación causa efecto es habitualmente circular: lo que al principio pudo ser un efecto se convierte más adelante en una causa. Un padre o una madre que maltrata o abusa de sus hijos puede provocar que éstos adopten una actitud defensiva basada en la agresión reprimida; cuando el niño crece, es esta forma de defenderse, en lugar del trauma inicial, lo que podría inclinarle a convertirse a su vez en un padre o una madre que abusa también de sus hijos. Así pues, adoptar hábitos de ocio pasivo no es simplemente un efecto de problemas anteriores, sino que se convierte en causa por propio derecho, que corta cualquier opción posterior de mejorar la calidad de vida." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"In many ways, Max Planck's obsession with understanding the Absolute underlies most human attempts to transcend the limitations of a body doomed to die after a short span of years." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Счастье зависит не от происходящих вокруг событий, а от нашей их интерпретации." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Как сказал Достоевский, если бы Христос в средние века вернулся на землю и начал проповедовать освобождение, его, несомненно, снова распяли бы отцы той самой церкви, чье мировое могущество построено на его имени." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The domain of mental testing, including the whole concept of the IQ test and its uses, owes much of its success to the U.S. Army's need to have a way of selecting recruits for World War I." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"You can drive a car all your life without knowing how the engine works, because the goal of driving is to get from one place to the next, regardless how it's done. But to live without understanding how we think, why we feel the way we feel, what directs our actions is to miss what is most important in life, which is the experience itself." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Cuando fluimos no es que seamosfelices, porque para experimentar la felicidad debemos centrarnos en nuestros estados internos, y esto distraería la atención de la tarea que tenemos entre manos. Si un escalador se toma un tiempo para sentirse feliz mientras está considerando un movimiento difícil, puede caer al fondo del precipicio. El cirujano no puede permitirse sentirse feliz durante una difícil operación ni un músico mientras está tocando una pieza arriesgada. Sólo después de que se ha completado la tarea tenemos tiempo para mirar hacia atrás, considerar lo que sucedió, y es entonces cuando nos vemos inundados de gratitud por la plenitud de esa experiencia; es entonces cuando podemos afirmar que somos retrospectivamente felices. Pero no se puede ser feliz sin las experiencias de flujo.Podemos ser felices experimentando el placer pasivo de un cuerpo en descanso, una cálida puesta de sol, la satisfacción de unarelación serena. Éstos también son momentos que podemos atesorar, pero esta clase de felicidad es muy vulnerable y dependede circunstancias externas que sean favorables. La felicidad que se produce después de un estado de fluidez sólo nos pertenece a nosotros y conduce a una complejidad y a un crecimiento crecientes de la conciencia." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"try very hard to be at the cutting edge of problems. Very often that puts me so far out in front that people are upset about it, but that's OK." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"without disinterested interest life is uninteresting." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Complexity is the result of two broad psychological processes: differentiation and integration. Differentiation implies a movement toward uniqueness, toward separating oneself from others. Integration refers to its opposite: a union with other people, with ideas and entities beyond the self. A complex self is one that succeeds in combining these opposite tendencies." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"WE HAVE SEEN how people describe the common characteristics of optimal experience: a sense that one's skills are adequate to cope with the challenges at hand, in a goal-directed, rule-hound action system that provides clear clues as to how well one is performing. Concentration is so intense that there is no attention left over to think about anything irrelevant, or to worry about problems. Self-consciousness disappears, and the sense of time becomes distorted. An activity that produces such experiences is so gratifying that people are willing to do it for its own sake, with little concern for what they will get out of it, even when it is difficult, or dangerous." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Creativity testing owes its existence to World War II, when the air force commissioned J. P. Guilford, a psychologist at the University of Southern California, to study the subject. The air force wanted to select pilots who in an emergency—the unexpected failure of a gear or instrument—would respond with appropriately original behavior, saving themselves and the plane." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The real story of creativity is more difficult and strange than many overly optimistic accounts have claimed." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"you have to assume that it can be done. If you don't assume that, you won't even try. And I always assume that not only it can be done, but I can do it." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"happiness is not something that happens. It is not the result of good fortune or random chance. It is not something that money can buy or power command. It does not depend on outside events, but, rather, on how we interpret them. Happiness, in fact, is a condition that must be prepared for, cultivated, and defended privately by each person. People who learn to control inner experience will be able to determine the quality of their lives, which is as close as any of us can come to being happy." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"When attention is focused, minor aches and pains have no chance to register in consciousness." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The best moments in our lives are not the passive, receptive, relaxing times . . . The best moments usually occur if a person's body or mind is stretched to its limits in a voluntary effort to accomplish something difficult and worthwhile" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"creativity must, in the last analysis, be seen not as something happening within a person but in the relationships within a system." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Scientists often describe the autotelic aspects of their work as the exhilaration that comes from the pursuit of truth and of beauty. What they seem to describe, however, is the joy of discovery, of solving a problem, of being able to express an observed relationship in a simple and elegant form. So what is rewarding is not a mysterious and ineffable goal but the activity of science itself. It is the pursuit that counts, not the attainment." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"A creative individual is more likely to be both aggressive and cooperative, either at the same time or at different times, depending on the situation. Having a complex personality means being able to express the full range of traits that are potentially present in the human repertoire but usually atrophy because we think that one or the other pole is 'good,' whereas the other extreme is 'bad.' This kind of person has many traits in common with what the Swiss analytic psychologist Carl Jung considered a mature personality." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"An Australian social scientist, Jim Macbeth, interviewed dozens of ocean sailors who spend year after year navigating among the islands of the South Pacific, many of them own ing nothing except the boat into which they've invested all their savings. When they run out of money for food or repairs, they stop in a port to do odd jobs until they can replenish their supplies, then they cast off on the next journey. ""I was able to throw off responsibility, cast off a humdrum life, be a bit adventurous. I had to do something with life besides vegetate,"" says one of these modern argonauts. ""It was a chance to do one really big thing in my life; big and memorable,"" says another." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Nhiều người từ bỏ việc học sau khi họ ra trường vì mười ba hoặc hai mươi năm giáo dục với động lực từ bên ngoài vẫn là một nguồn ký ức khó chịu. Sự chú ý của họ đã bị thao túng đủ lâu từ bên ngoài bởi những quyển sách giáo khoa và các giáo viên, và họ đã coi ngày tốt nghiệp là ngày đầu tiên của tự do." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"If we really want to live, we'd better start at once to try; If we don't, it doesn't matter, but we'd better start to die." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Artists agree that a painter cannot make a creative contribution without looking, and looking, and looking at previous art, and without knowing what other artists and critics consider good and bad art. Writers say that you have to read, read, and read some more, and know what the critics' criteria for good writing are, before you can write creatively yourself." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"In the United States and the other technologically advanced societies, individualism and materialism have almost completely prevailed over allegiance to the community and to spiritual values." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Lack of true friends is often the main complaint of people confronting an emotional crisis in the second half of life." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Generalmente existen tres razones principales por las que nos resentimos de nuestros trabajos. [4] En primer lugar porque la tarea no tiene sentido, no hace bien a nadie y, de hecho, puede ser perjudicial. Algunos funcionarios, los vendedores sometidos a una elevada presión e incluso los científicos que trabajan en la industria armamentística o del tabaco tienen que engañarse seriamente a sí mismos para tolerar lo que hacen para vivir. La segunda razón es que el trabajo es aburrido y rutinario; no proporciona variedad ni reto alguno. Después de unos años podemos hacerlo dormidos y todo lo que nos proporciona es estancamiento en lugar de crecimiento. El tercer problema del trabajo es que a menudo produce estrés; especialmente cuando no se puede soportar al supervisor o a los compañeros que esperan demasiado de uno o que no valoran suficientemente nuestra aportación. Al contrario de lo que se piensa generalmente, el interés por tener más dinero y más seguridad generalmente no es tan importante como las otras tres razones expuestas para determinar si alguien está satisfecho o no con el trabajo." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"То, как мы расходуем наше внимание, какие мысли, чувства, воспоминания пропускаем в наше сознание, определяет наше личностное развитие." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"A leading philosopher in our study maintains that if a young person wants to learn philosophy these days, he or she would be better advised to become immersed in the domain directly and avoid the field altogether: 'I'd tell him to read the great books of philosophy. And I would tell him not to do graduate study at any university. I think all philosophy departments are no good. They are all terrible." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"self becomes complex as a result of experiencing flow. Paradoxically, it is when we act freely, for the sake of the action itself rather than for ulterior motives, that we learn to become more than what we were." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"In a really enjoyable game, the players are balanced on the fine line between boredom and anxiety. The same is true when work, or a conversation, or a relationship is going well." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Perhaps the most important quality, the one that is most consistently present in all creative individuals, is the ability to enjoy the process of creation for its own sake." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"In contemporary preliterate societies this knowledge is so deeply ingrained that a person who likes to be alone is assumed to be a witch, for a normal person would not choose to leave the company of others unless forced to do so." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Human beings are the only creatures who are allowed to fail. If an ant fails, it's dead. But we're allowed to learn from our mistakes and from our failures." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"In the long run optimal experiences add up to a sense of mastery--or perhaps better, a sense of participation in determining the contents of life--that comes as close to what is usually meant by happiness as anything else we can conceivably imagine." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"To say that the theory of relativity was created by Einstein is like saying that it is the spark that is responsible for the fire. The spark is necessary, but without air and tinder there would be no flame." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"It sounds somewhat ridiculous to say that one of the problems we face at this point in history is that we haven't learned how to spend free time in a sensible way." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"When a field becomes too self-referential and cut off from reality, it runs the risk of becoming irrelevant. It is often dissatisfaction with the rigidity of domains that makes great creative advances possible." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Openness to experience, a fluid attention that constantly processes events in the environment, is a great advantage for recognizing potential novelty." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Someone who is motivated solely by the desire to become rich and famous might struggle hard to get ahead but will rarely have enough inducement to work beyond what is necessary, to venture beyond what is already known." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"If you are interested in something you will focus on it, and if you focus attention on anything, it is likely that you will become interested in it." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"This does not mean that creative persons are hyperactive, always 'on,' constantly churning away. In fact, they often take rests and sleep a lot. The important thing is that the energy is under their own control—it is not controlled by the calendar, the clock, an external schedule. When necessary they can focus it like a laser beam; when it is not, they immediately start recharging their batteries." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Normal people are rarely original, but they are sometimes bizarre." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"joy, creativity, the process of total involvement with life" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"creativity results from the interaction of a system composed of three elements: a culture that contains symbolic rules, a person who brings novelty into the symbolic domain, and a field of experts who recognize and validate the innovation" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"creative people usually enjoy not only their work but also the many other activities in their lives." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"People who view television more often than the average tend also to have worse jobs and worse relationships. In a large scale study in Germany, it was found that the more often people report reading books, the more flow experiences they claimed to have. While the opposite trend was found for watching television. The most flow was reported by individuals who read a lot and watched little TV. The least by those who read seldom and watched often." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"How we feel about ourselves, the joy we get from living, ultimately depend directly on how the mind filters and interprets everyday experiences" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Because for better or for worse, our future is now closely tied to human creativity." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"We value money because to a certain extent it liberates us from the constraints of life by making it possible to have free time to do in it what we want." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"But increasingly the emphasis has been to value behavior over subjective states; what is admired is success, achievement, the quality of performance rather than the quality of experience. Consequently it has become embarrassing to be called a dilettante, even though to be a dilettante is to achieve what counts" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"A person who can remember stories, poems, lyrics of songs, baseball statistics, chemical formulas, mathematical operations, historical dates, biblical passages, and wise quotations has many advantages over one who has not cultivated such a skill. The consciousness of such a person is independent of the order that may or may not be provided by the environment. She can always amuse herself, and find meaning in the contents of her mind. While others need external stimulation—television, reading, conversation, or drugs—to keep their minds from drifting into chaos, the person whose memory is stocked with patterns of information is autonomous and self-contained." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Sometimes fields that are not competent in the domain take control over it." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Science is very much fun. And I think women should have the opportunity to have fun." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"How to avoid the danger of polarizing life into work that is meaningless because it is unfree, and leisure that is meaningless because it has no purpose?" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"but a homeopathic cure so improved her health" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The old fable continues to echo down the centuries. The waiting rooms of psychiatrists are filled with rich and successful patients who, in their forties or fifties, suddenly wake up to the fact that a plush suburban home, expensive cars, and even an Ivy League education are not enough to bring peace of mind. Yet people keep hoping that changing the external conditions of their lives will provide a solution. If only they could earn more money, be in better physical shape, or have a more understanding" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"a society begins to rely heavily on leisure—and especially on passive leisure—only when it has become incapable of offering meaningful productive occupation to its members. Thus 'bread and circuses' is a ploy of last resort that postpones the dissolution of society only temporarily." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"the secret to a happy life is to learn to get flow from as many of the things we have to do as possible." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"To be trusted in a position of leadership, it helps to advance other people's goals as well as one's own." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Flow tends to occur when a person's skills are fully involved in overcoming a challenge that is just about manageable." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The popular assumption is that no skills are involved in enjoying free time, and that anybody can do it. Yet the evidence suggests the opposite: free time is more difficult to enjoy than work." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"It is possible to improve the quality of life by making sure that clear goals, immediate feedback, skills balanced to action opportunities, and the remaining conditions of flow are as much as possible a constant part of everyday life. ((p. 34))" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Now, people don't like this explanation. They say, 'What? You think of junk?' I say, 'Yup. You must.' You cannot a priori think only of good ideas." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Cuando fluimos no es que seamos felices, porque para experimentar la felicidad debemos centrarnos en nuestros estados internos, y esto distraería la atención de la tarea que tenemos entre manos. Si un escalador se toma un tiempo para sentirse feliz mientras está considerando un movimiento difícil, puede caer al fondo del precipicio. El cirujano no puede permitirse sentirse feliz durante una difícil operación ni un músico mientras está tocando una pieza arriesgada. Sólo después de que se ha completado la tarea tenemos tiempo para mirar hacia atrás, considerar lo que sucedió, y es entonces cuando nos vemos inundados de gratitud por la plenitud de esa experiencia; es entonces cuando podemos afirmar que somos retrospectivamente felices. Pero no se puede ser feliz sin las experiencias de flujo.Podemos ser felices experimentando el placer pasivo de un cuerpo en descanso, una cálida puesta de sol, la satisfacción de una relación serena. Éstos también son momentos que podemos atesorar, pero esta clase de felicidad es muy vulnerable y dependede circunstancias externas que sean favorables. La felicidad que se produce después de un estado de fluidez sólo nos pertenece a nosotros y conduce a una complejidad y a un crecimiento crecientes de la conciencia." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Yeah, there's a trick I pull for this. When I have a job to do like that, where you have to do something that takes a lot of effort, slowly, I pretend I'm in jail. Don't laugh. And if I'm in jail, time is of no consequence. In other words, if it takes a week to cut this, it'll take a week. What else have I got to do? I'm going to be here for twenty years. See? This is a kind of mental trick." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Chance and necessity are sole rulers of beings who are incapable of reflection." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"When you write poetry honestly, and when you read it honestly, then you become an individual and build up a defense against becoming programmed. And if you read poetry to young people, which I very often do—I go to schools, I have even gone to prisons—I feel you can raise in people's minds the wish never to be an opportunist, never to be a mindless follower. To look always at what's happening and not to look away from it. That's the most you can do. You cannot change the world, but you can change the single person, I guess. And a single person who decides not to join the crowd…." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Edison's or Einstein's discoveries would be inconceivable without the prior knowledge, without the intellectual and social network that stimulated their thinking, and without the social mechanisms that recognized and spread their innovations." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Por ser el trabajo una parte tan fundamental de la vida para la mayoría de las personas, es esencial que la actividad que se realice sea lo más placentera y gratificante posible. Sin embargo, muchas personas creen que mientras tengan una paga decente y cierta seguridad, no importa lo aburrido o alienante que sea su trabajo. Sin embargo, esta actitud contribuye a desperdiciar casi el 40% de la parte de la vida que vivimos despiertos. Y puesto que nadie más va a tomarse la molestia de hacer lo posible para que disfrutemos de nuestro trabajo," -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"It's fun to come up with an idea, and if nobody wants it, I don't give a damn. It's just fun to come up with something strange and different." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"it's very clear to me that my ability to think and write at the same time depends on the flow of ink. The thing I enjoy most is the flow of my own ideas and getting them down on paper. I will not write with a ballpoint pen, because it doesn't really flow. That's why I use a fountain pen. And only a fountain pen that really works very well." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"because these individuals have learned to perceive opportunities in such mundane tasks that others do not see." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Another force motivates us, and it is more primitive and more powerful than the urge to create: the force of entropy. This too is a survival mechanism built into our genes by evolution. It gives us pleasure when we are comfortable, when we relax, when we can get away with feeling good without expending energy." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"person also needs access to a domain. This depends to a great extent on luck. Being born to an affluent family, or close to good schools, mentors, and coaches obviously is a great advantage. It does no good to be extremely intelligent and curious if I cannot learn what it takes to operate in a given symbolic system." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"It was because the leading citizens, as well as the common people, were so seriously concerned with the outcome of their work that the artists were pushed to perform beyond their previous limits." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Philebus: 'The young man who has drunk for the first time from that spring is as happy as if he had found a treasure of wisdom; he is positively enraptured. He will pick up any discourse, draw all its ideas together to make them into one, then take them apart and pull them to pieces. He will puzzle first himself, then also others, badger whoever comes near him, young and old, sparing not even his parents, nor anyone who is willing to listen…." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Suffering is not bad: It helps you very much. Do you know a novel about happiness? Or a film about happy people? We are a perverse race, only suffering interests us." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"After an insight occurs, one must check it out to see if the connections genuinely make sense. The painter steps back from the canvas to see whether the composition works, the poet rereads the verse with a more critical eye, the scientist sits down to do the calculations or run the experiments. Most lovely insights never go any farther, because under the cold light of reason fatal flaws appear. But if everything checks out, the slow and often routine work of elaboration begins" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Работа ставит перед людьми задачи, требующие актуализации их навыков и умений; в результате они чувствуют себя более счастливыми, сильными, креативными и удовлетворенными. В свободное время перед ними, как правило, не стоит никаких задач, их способности не задействованы, и потому они скучают и чувствуют себя опечаленными, слабыми и неудовлетворенными. При этом люди стремятся поменьше работать и побольше отдыхать." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Yet a culture could not survive long unless all of its members paid attention to at least a few of the same things. In fact it could be said that a culture exists when the majority of people agree that painting X deserves more attention than painting Y, or idea X deserves more thought than idea Y." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The requirements of life still dictate that we spend our time in a way that is not that different from the African baboons. Give and take a few hours, most people sleep one-third of the day, and use the remainder to work, travel, and rest in more or less the same proportions as the baboons do. And as the historian Emmanuel Le Roy Ladurie has shown, in thirteenth century French villages-which were among the most advanced in the world at the time-the most common leisure pursuit was still that of picking lice out of each other's hair." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Si realmente queremos vivir, sería mejor que empezáramos de una vez a intentarlo; Si no queremos, no importa, pero sería mejor que empezáramos a morir." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Many of the peculiarities attributed to creative persons are really just ways to protect the focus of concentration so that they may lose themselves in the creative process. Distractions interrupt flow, and it may take hours to recover the peace of mind one needs to get on with the work. The more ambitious the task, the longer it takes to lose oneself in it, and the easier it is to get distracted." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"If one reads the biographies of physicists like Bohr, Heisenberg, Chandrashekhar, and Bethe, one gets the impression that without hikes in the mountains and the vision of night skies their science would not have amounted to much." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"It is easy to resent this attitude and see the inner freedom of the creative person as an elite privilege. While the rest of us are struggling at boring jobs, they have the luxury of doing what they love to do, not knowing whether it is work or play. There might be an element of truth in this. But far more important, in my opinion, is the message that the creative person is sending us: You, too, can spend your life doing what you love to do. After all, most of the people we interviewed were not born with a silver spoon in their mouth; many came from humble origins and struggled to create a career that allowed them to keep exploring their interests. Even if we don't have the good fortune to discover a new chemical element or write a great story, the love of the creative process for its own sake is available to all. It is difficult to imagine a richer life. FIVE THE FLOW OF CREATIVITY Creative persons differ from one another in a variety of ways, but in one respect they are unanimous: They all love what they do." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"his attention is stretched as far as it can go, interacting with the world around him. And like E., he seems to enjoy his life intensely." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"By learning to concentrate, a person acquires control over psychic energy, the basic fuel upon which all thinking depends." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The energy that could be used to focus on complex goals, to provide for enjoyable growth, is squandered on patterns of stimulations that only mimic reality. Mass leisure, mass culture, and even high culture when only attended to passively and for extrinsic reasons, such as the wish to flaunt one's status, are parasites of the mind. They absorb psychic energy without providing substantive strength in return. They leave us more exhausted, more disheartened than we were before." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Научившись ставить цели, развивать умения, отслеживать обратную связь, концентрироваться и включаться в происходящее, – человек сможет радоваться жизни даже тогда, когда объективные обстоятельства к этому не располагают. Умение контролировать свой разум подразумевает способность превращать в источник радости практически все происходящее. Легкий бриз в жаркий полдень, облако, отраженное в зеркальном фасаде небоскреба, работа над деловым проектом, вид ребенка, играющего со щенком, вкус воды – все это может нести глубочайшее удовлетворение, обогащать жизнь." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"В последнее время стало модно считать заложенные в нас инстинкты подлинным голосом природы, и многие доверяют только им как единственным авторитетам. Если что-то приносит и удовольствие, если оно естественно и спонтанно, значит всё делается правильно. Но безоговорочно следуя генетическим и социальным инструкциям, мы теряем контроль над сознанием и становимся беспомощным игрушками внешних сил. Человек, не способный устоять перед искушением вкусной еды или выпивки, или же постоянно сосредоточенный на мыслях о сексе, не может свободно распоряжаться своей психической энергией." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"It also seems true that centers of creativity tend to be at the intersection of different cultures, where beliefs, lifestyles, and knowledge mingle and allow individuals to see new combinations of ideas with greater ease. In cultures that are uniform and rigid, it takes a greater investment of attention to achieve new ways of thinking. In other words, creativity is more likely in places where new ideas require less effort to be perceived." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"A second level of analysis for conceptualizing spirituality is in terms of personalized goals or strivings, or what Emmons and colleagues have called ""ultimate concerns"" (Emmons, 1999; Emmons, Cheung, & Tehrani, 1998). A rapidly expanding database now exists that demonstrates that personal goals are a valid representation of how people structure and experience their lives: They are critical constructs for understanding the ups and downs of everyday life, and they are key elements for understanding both the positive life as well as psychological dysfunction (Karoly, 1999). People's priorities, goals, and concerns are key determinants of their overall quality of life. The possession of and progression toward important life goals are essential for long-term well-being. Several investigators have found that individuals who are involved in the pursuit of personally meaningful goals possess greater emotional well-being and better physical health than do persons who lack goal direction (see Emmons, 19 9 9, for a review)." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The rest of society often views these new ideas as fantasies without relevance to current reality. And they are right. But the whole point of art and science is to go beyond what we now consider real, and create a new reality." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"a genuinely creative accomplishment is almost never the result of a sudden insight, a light-bulb flashing on in the dark, but comes after years of hard work." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"What this life will amount to is in part determined by the chemical processes in our body, by the biological interaction among organs, by the tiny electrical currents jumping between the synapses of the brain, and by the organization of information that the culture imposes on our mind. But the actual quality of life—what we do, and how we feel about it—will be determined by our thoughts and emotions; by the interpretations we give to chemical, biological, and social processes." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Variety and frequency of sexual encounters have taken precedence over the depth and intensity of the relationship in which they are embedded. It is ironic that on this issue the traditional teachings of the churches are closer to a scientific position than the up-to-date beliefs of the populace, for an evolutionary approach confirms that the original purpose of sexuality is making children and binding the parental couple." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Work as we know it now is a very recent historical development. It didn't exist before the great agricultural revolutions that made intensive farming possible about twelve thousand years ago." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Someone who is relatively more introverted may wish to perfect his act before stepping before the limelight. A more extroverted person may enjoy competitive pressures from the very beginning of her career." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Breaking out of the fatalistic acceptance of genetic or historical programming requires, at the very least, a belief in freedom and self-determination." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"I feel that all the various features of Nature around me…provoked an emotional reaction in the depth of my soul, which I have tried to transcribe in music' wrote Franz Liszt during his stay here." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"complexity of consciousness." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"for real growth, it is necessary to find people whose opinions are interesting and whose conversation is stimulating. A more difficult, but in the long run even more useful, skill to acquire is the ability to tolerate solitude, and to even enjoy it." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Only lack of imagination, or lack of energy, stand in the way of each of us becoming a poet or musician, an inventor or explorer, an amateur scholar, scientist, artist, or collector." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"At Linus Pauling's sixtieth birthday celebration, a student asked him, 'Dr. Pauling, how does one go about having good ideas?' He replied, 'You have a lot of ideas and throw away the bad ones." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Learning to manage one's goals is an important step in achieving excellence in everyday life. To do so, however, does not involve either the extreme of spontaneity on the one hand, or compulsive control on the other. The best solution might be to understand the roots of one's motivation, and while recognizing the biases involved in one's desires, in all humbleness to choose goals that will provide order in one's consciousness without causing too much disorder in the social or material environment." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The whine of the victim is absent from his repertoire—as from that of practically all the individuals we interviewed." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Traditionally, men's identity and self-respect have been based on the ability to obtain energy from the environment for their own and their families' use. Whether the satisfaction a man gets from doing a necessary job is partly genetically programmed, or is entirely learned from the culture, the fact is that more or less everywhere a man who is not a provider is to some extent a misfit." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"our perception of both what can be accomplished and what we as individuals are able to accomplish, until the two are in balance." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"As one focuses on any segment of reality, a potentially infinite range of opportunities for action-physical, mental, or emotional-is revealed for our skills to engage with. There is never a good excuse for being bored." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The quality of life is much improved if we learn to love what we have to do. (p.139)" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"a young person wants to learn philosophy these days, he or she would be better advised to become immersed in the domain directly and avoid the field altogether: 'I'd tell him to read the great books of philosophy. And I would tell him not to do graduate study at any university. I think all philosophy departments are no good. They are all terrible.' By and large, however, jurisdiction over a given domain is officially left in the hands of a field of experts. These may range from grade school teachers to university professors and include anyone who has a right to decide whether a new idea or product is 'good' or 'bad.' It is impossible to understand creativity without understanding how fields operate, how they decide whether something new should or should not be added to the domain." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Albert Einstein once wrote that art and science are two of the greatest forms of escape from reality that humans have devised." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The shape and content of life depend on how attention has been used." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"So the first step in improving the quality of life consists inengineering daily activities so that one gets the most rewarding experiences from them." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"One of the values in walking to work is mental meandering. Or if driving, not to have the car radio on. Now I don't think of myself as necessarily especially creative, but this creativity has to be a profoundly wasteful process. And that mental meandering, mind wandering and so on, is an essential process." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"When the job presents clear goals, unambiguous feedback, a sense of control, challenges that match the worker's skills, and few distractions, the feelings it provides are not that different from what one experiences in a sport or an artistic performance." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"In order to survive, cultures must eliminate most of the new ideas their members produce. Cultures are conservative, and for good reason. No culture could assimilate all the novelty people produce without dissolving into chaos." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"When idleness is forced on someone without a handsome income, it just produces a severe drop in self-esteem, and general listlessness. As John Hay-worth, a psychologist at the University of Manchester, has shown, young men out of work, even when paid relatively generous unemployment compensation, have a very hard time finding satisfaction in their lives." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"To keep up interest in a subject, a teenager has to enjoy working in it. If the teacher makes the task of learning excessively difficult, the student will feel too frustrated and anxious to really get into it and enjoy it for its own sake. If the teacher makes learning too easy, the student will get bored and lose interest. The teacher has the difficult task of finding the right balance between the challenges he or she gives and the students' skills, so that enjoyment and the desire to learn more result." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Creativity is a central source of meaning in our lives… most of the things that are interesting, important, and human are the results of creativity… [and] when we are involved in it, we feel that we are living more fully than during the rest of life." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Robert Galvin says that creativity consists of anticipation and commitment. Anticipation involves having a vision of something that will become important in the future before anybody else has it; commitment is the belief that keeps one working to realize the vision despite doubt and discouragement." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"1. Nhiều người từ bỏ việc học sau khi họ ra trường vì mười ba hoặc hai mươi năm giáo dục với động lực từ bên ngoài vẫn là một nguồn ký ức khó chịu. Sự chú ý của họ đã bị thao túng đủ lâu từ bên ngoài bởi những quyển sách giáo khoa và các giáo viên, và họ đã coi ngày tốt nghiệp là ngày đầu tiên của tự do.2. Truyền thuyết xưa cũ này tiếp tục truyền đi qua hàng thế kỷ. Phòng chờ của các bác sĩ tâm thần được lấp đầy bởi những bệnh nhân giàu có và thành công, những người ở độ tuổi bốn mươi, năm mươi bất chợt thức tỉnh trước sự thật rằng một căn nhà ngoại ô sang trọng, những chiếc xe hơi đắt tiền và ngay cả một nền giáo dục đẳng cấp ở Ivy League15 cũng không đủ để mang lại sự bình yên trong tâm trí. Thế nhưng mọi người vẫn tiếp tục hy vọng rằng sự thay đổi các điều kiện bên ngoài trong đời sống của họ sẽ mang lại một giải pháp. Họ tin rằng chỉ cần có thể kiếm được nhiều tiền hơn, có diện mạo đẹp hơn, hay có một người bạn đời thấu hiểu hơn thì họ sẽ thật sự hạnh phúc. Mặc dù chúng ta nhận ra rằng thành công về mặt vật chất có thể không mang lại hạnh phúc, song chúng ta vẫn lao vào một cuộc chiến đấu không hồi kết để đạt tới các mục tiêu bên ngoài, trông mong rằng chúng sẽ cải thiện cuộc đời mình.3. TẠI NHỮNG THỜI ĐIỂM NHẤT ĐỊNH trong lịch sử, các nền văn hóa đã mặc định rằng một cá nhân không hoàn toàn được xem là con người trừ khi anh ta hoặc cô ta học được cách làm chủ các suy nghĩ và cảm xúc của mình" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Purpose gives direction to one's efforts, but it does not necessarily make life easier. Goals can lead into all sorts of trouble, at which point one gets tempted to give them up and find some less demanding script by which to order one's actions. The price one pays for changing goals whenever opposition threatens is that while one may achieve a more pleasant and" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Мы не можем претендовать на способность самостоятельно определять содержание и качество нашего опыта, если завлекательная реклама вызывает у нас возбуждение, а выволочка от начальника портит нам день." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"To achieve historical creativity many other conditions must be met. For instance, you must be lucky, for to excel in some domains you might need the right genes, you might have to be born in the right family, at the right historical moment. Without access to the domain, potential is fruitless: How many Congolese would make great skiers? Are there really no Papuans who could contribute to nuclear physics? And finally, without the support of a field, even the most promising talent will not be recognized. But if creativity with a capital C is largely beyond our control, living a creative personal life is not. And in terms of ultimate fulfillment, the latter may be the most important accomplishment" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"To achieve creativity in an existing domain, there must be surplus attention available." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"But increasingly the emphasis has been to value behavior over subjective states; what is admired is success, achievement, the quality of performance rather than the quality of experience. Consequently it has become embarrassing to be called a dilettante, even though to be a dilettante is to achieve what counts most—the enjoyment one's actions provide." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Most events in consciousness are built from culturally defined contents as well as from personal meanings developed throughout an individual's life. Thus, two persons can never be expected to have the same experience, and the farther apart in time and place they are, the more the details of the two experiences will differ." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Contrary to what we usually believe, moments like these, the best moments in our lives, are not the passive, receptive, relaxing times—although such experiences can also be enjoyable, if we have worked hard to attain them. The best moments usually occur when a person's body or mind is stretched to its limits in a voluntary effort to accomplish something difficult and worthwhile. Optimal experience is thus something that we make happen. For a child, it could be placing with trembling fingers the last block on a tower she has built, higher than any she has built so far; for a swimmer, it could be trying to beat his own record; for a violinist, mastering an intricate musical passage. For each person there are thousands of opportunities, challenges to expand ourselves." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"So what does ""to live"" mean in this context? Obviously, it doesn't refer simply to biological survival. It must mean to live in fullness, without waste of time and potential, expressing one's uniqueness, yet participating intimately in the complexity of the cosmos." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"It is the full involvement of flow, rather than happiness, that makes for excellence in life." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Passive leisure becomes a problem when a person uses it as the principal-orthe only-strategy to fill up free time." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"After college she worked in the theater and started publishing her stories. She still plays the piano, and in a way that is similar to Mark Strand's strategy of driving a car or running errands when the focus on his work becomes excessively absorbing, she uses music to help clear her mind and get back in touch with experiences beyond the compass of rationality: Playing the piano is for me a way of getting unstuck. If I'm stuck in life or in what I'm writing, if I can I sit down and play the piano. What it does is break the barrier that comes between the conscious and the subconscious mind. The conscious mind wants to take over and refuses to let the subconscious mind work, the intuition. So if I can play the piano, that will break the block, and my intuition will be free to give things up to my mind, my intellect. So it's not just a hobby. It's a joy." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"You feel content because routine consistently reaffirms a decision you already made.If said decision is that you want to write a book—and you commit to doing three pages each night for however long it takes to complete it—you affirm not only your choice to begin, but your ability to do it. It's honestly the healthiest way to feel validated.— Csikszentmihalyi, Mihaly. Flow: The Psychology of Optimal Experience. 2008. Harper Perennial Modern Classics. Quote sourced from 101 Essays That Will Change the Way You Think by Brianna Wiest" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"If you are interested in something you will focus on it, and if you focus attention on anything, you will become interested in it." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"But personalizing patterns of action helps to free the mind from the expectations that make demands on attention and allows intense concentration on matters that count." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"On bad days I have seventeen or twenty-four E-mail messages." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"We don't usually notice how little control we have over the mind, because habits channel psychic energy so well that thoughts seem to follow each other by themselves without a hitch. After sleeping we regain consciousness in the morning when the alarm rings, and then walk to the bathroom and brush our teeth. The social roles culture prescribes then take care of shaping our minds for us, and we generally place ourselves on automatic pilot till the end of the day, when it is time again to lose consciousness in sleep. But when we are left alone, with no demands on attention, the basic disorder of the mind reveals itself. With nothing to do, it begins to follow random patterns, usually stopping to consider something painful or disturbing. Unless a person knows how to give order to his or her thoughts, attention will be attracted to whatever is most problematic at the moment: it will focus on some real or imaginary pain, on recent grudges or long-term frustrations. Entropy is the normal state of consciousness-a condition that is neither useful nor enjoyable." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"Unfortunately, many people find the only challenges they can respond to are violence, gambling, random sex, or drugs. Some of these experiences can be enjoyable, but these episodes of flow do not add up to a sense of satisfaction and happiness over time. Pleasure does not lead to creativity, but soon turns into addiction—the thrall of entropy." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"The Effects of the Family on the AutotelicPersonality" -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
"make a sculpture which stands up. It just sits there. So the next stage, of course, is the hard work. Can you really translate it into a piece of sculpture? Or will it be a wild thing which only seemed exciting while you were sitting in the studio alone? Will it look like something? Can you actually do it physically? Can you, personally, do it physically? What do you have by way of materials? So the second part is a lot of hard work." -Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi