"The three most harmful addictions are heroin, carbohydrates, and a monthly salary." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The writer Umberto Eco belongs to that small class of scholars who are encyclopedic, insightful, and nondull. He is the owner of a large personal library (containing thirty thousand books), and separates visitors into two categories: those who react with "Wow! Signore, professore dottore Eco, what a library you have ! How many of these books have you read?" and the others - a very small minority - who get the point that a private library is not an ego-boosting appendage but a research tool. Read books are far less valuable than unread ones. The library should contain as much of what you don't know as your financial means, mortgage rates and the currently tight real-estate market allows you to put there. You will accumulate more knowledge and more books as you grow older, and the growing number of unread books on the shelves will look at you menancingly. Indeed, the more you know, the larger the rows of unread books. Let us call this collection of unread books an antilibrary." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Love without sacrifice is like theft" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Missing a train is only painful if you run after it! Likewise, not matching the idea of success others expect from you is only painful if that's what you are seeking." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Charm is the ability to insult people without offending them; nerdiness the reverse" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A Stoic is someone who transforms fear into prudence, pain into transformation, mistakes into initiation, and desire into undertaking." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It has been more profitable for us to bind together in the wrong direction than to be alone in the right one. Those who have followed the assertive idiot rather than the introspective wise person have passed us some of their genes. This is apparent from a social pathology: psychopaths rally followers." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Half of the people lie with their lips; the other half with their tears" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"When you develop your opinions on the basis of weak evidence, you will have difficulty interpreting subsequent information that contradicts these opinions, even if this new information is obviously more accurate." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The psychologist Gerd Gigerenzer has a simple heuristic. Never ask the doctor what you should do. Ask him what he would do if he were in your place. You would be surprised at the difference" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Some can be more intelligent than others in a structured environment—in fact school has a selection bias as it favors those quicker in such an environment, and like anything competitive, at the expense of performance outside it. Although I was not yet familiar with gyms, my idea of knowledge was as follows. People who build their strength using these modern expensive gym machines can lift extremely large weights, show great numbers and develop impressive-looking muscles, but fail to lift a stone; they get completely hammered in a street fight by someone trained in more disorderly settings. Their strength is extremely domain-specific and their domain doesn't exist outside of ludic—extremely organized—constructs. In fact their strength, as with over-specialized athletes, is the result of a deformity. I thought it was the same with people who were selected for trying to get high grades in a small number of subjects rather than follow their curiosity: try taking them slightly away from what they studied and watch their decomposition, loss of confidence, and denial. (Just like corporate executives are selected for their ability to put up with the boredom of meetings, many of these people were selected for their ability to concentrate on boring material.) I've debated many economists who claim to specialize in risk and probability: when one takes them slightly outside their narrow focus, but within the discipline of probability, they fall apart, with the disconsolate face of a gym rat in front of a gangster hit man." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Few understand that procrastination is our natural defense, letting things take care of themselves and exercise their antifragility; it results from some ecological or naturalistic wisdom, and is not always bad -- at an existential level, it is my body rebelling against its entrapment. It is my soul fighting the Procrustean bed of modernity." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Heroes are heroes because they are heroic in behavior, not because they won or lost." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"If you have more than one reason to do something (choose a doctor or veterinarian, hire a gardener or an employee, marry a person, go on a trip), just don't do it. It does not mean that one reason is better than two, just that by invoking more than one reason you are trying to convince yourself to do something. Obvious decisions (robust to error) require no more than a single reason." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"What I learned on my own I still remember" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The difference between technology and slavery is that slaves are fully aware that they are not free" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"If you want to annoy a poet, explain his poetry." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Things always become obvious after the fact" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"They will envy you for your success, your wealth, for your intelligence, for your looks, for your status - but rarely for your wisdom." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Wit seduces by signaling intelligence without nerdiness." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Remember that you are a Black Swan." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"People focus on role models; it is more effective to find antimodels - people you don't want to resemble when you grow up" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"They think that intelligence is about noticing things are relevant (detecting patterns); in a complex world, intelligence consists in ignoring things that are irrelevant (avoiding false patterns)" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"If there is something in nature you don't understand, odds are it makes sense in a deeper way that is beyond your understanding. So there is a logic to natural things that is much superior to our own. Just as there is a dichotomy in law: 'innocent until proven guilty' as opposed to 'guilty until proven innocent', let me express my rule as follows: what Mother Nature does is rigorous until proven otherwise; what humans and science do is flawed until proven otherwise." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The best way to measure the loss of intellectual sophistication - this nerdification, to put it bluntly - is in the growing disappearance of sarcasm, as mechanic minds take insults a bit too literally." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A prophet is not someone with special visions, just someone blind to most of what others see" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Difficulty is what wakes up the genius" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The minute I was bored with a book or a subject I moved to another one, instead of giving up on reading altogether - when you are limited to the school material and you get bored, you have a tendency to give up and do nothing or play hooky out of discouragement. The trick is to be bored with a specific book, rather than with the act of reading. So the number of the pages absorbed could grow faster than otherwise. And you find gold, so to speak, effortlessly, just as in rational but undirected trial-and-error-based research. It is exactly like options, trial and error, not getting stuck, bifurcating when necessary but keeping a sense of broad freedom and opportunism. Trial and error is freedom." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It is my great hope someday, to see science and decision makers rediscover what the ancients have always known. Namely that our highest currency is respect." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Antifragility is beyond resilience or robustness. The resilient resists shocks and stays the same; the antifragile gets better." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"You may never know what type of person someone is unless they are given opportunities to violate moral or ethical codes." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Suckers try to win arguments, nonsuckers try to win." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The irony of the process of thought control: the more energy you put into trying to control your ideas and what you think about, the more your ideas end up controlling you." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The problem with experts is that they do not know what they do not know" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The curious mind embraces science; the gifted and sensitive, the arts; the practical, business; the leftover becomes an economist" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Read books are far less valuable than unread ones. The library should contain as much of what you do not know as your financial means, mortgage rates, and the currently tight real-estate market alow you to put there." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Meditation is a way to be narcissistic without hurting anyone" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Doctors most commonly get mixed up between absence of evidence and evidence of abense" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"If you hear a prominent economist using the word 'equilibrium,' or 'normal distribution,' do not argue with him; just ignore him, or try to put a rat down his shirt." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Modernity: we created youth without heroism, age without wisdom, and life without grandeur" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Reality is far more vicious than Russian roulette. First, it delivers the fatal bullet rather infrequently, like a revolver that would have hundreds, even thousands of chambers instead of six. After a few dozen tries, one forgets about the existence of a bullet, under a numbing false sense of security. Second, unlike a well-defined precise game like Russian roulette, where the risks are visible to anyone capable of multiplying and dividing by six, one does not observe the barrel of reality. One is capable of unwittingly playing Russian roulette - and calling it by some alternative "low risk" game." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"When you beat up someone physically, you get excercise and stress relief; when you assault him verbally on the Internet, you just harm yourself." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We tend to use knowledge as therapy." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"My biggest problem with modernity may lie in the growing separation of the ethical and the legal" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The biologist and intellectual E. O. Wilson was once asked what represented the most hindrance to the development of children; his answer was the soccer mom. He did not use the notion of the Procrustean bed, but he outlined it perfectly. His argument is that they repress children's natural biophilia, their love of living things. But the problem is more general; soccer moms try to eliminate the trial and error, the antifragility, from children's lives, move them away from the ecological and transform them into nerds working on preexisting (soccer-mom-compatible) maps of reality. Good students, but nerds--that is, they are like computers except slower. Further, they are now totally untrained to handle ambiguity. As a child of civil war, I disbelieve in structured learning . . . . Provided we have the right type of rigor, we need randomness, mess, adventures, uncertainty, self-discovery, near-traumatic episodes, all those things that make life worth living, compared to the structured, fake, and ineffective life of an empty-suit CEO with a preset schedule and an alarm clock." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The curse of modernity is that we are increasingly populated by a class of people who are better at explaining than understanding, or better at explaining than doing." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Academia is to knowledge what prostitution is to love; close enough on the surface but, to the nonsucker, not exactly the same thing" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Probability is not a mere computation of odds on the dice or more complicated variants; it is the acceptance of the lack of certainty in our knowledge and the development of methods for dealing with our ignorance." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I want to live happily in a world I don't understand." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Karl Marx, a visionary, figured out that you can control a slave much better by convincing him he is an employee." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"This is the tragedy of modernity: as with neurotically overprotective parents, those trying to help are often hurting us the most." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Further, my characterization of a loser is someone who, after making a mistake, doesn't introspect, doesn't exploit it, feels embarrassed and defensive rather than enriched with a new piece of information, and tries to explain why he made the mistake rather than moving on. These types often consider themselves the "victims" of some large plot, a bad boss, or bad weather. Finally, a thought. He who has never sinned is less reliable than he who has only sinned once. And someone who has made plenty of errors—though never the same error more than once—is more reliable than someone who has never made any." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Only the autodidacts are free." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The problem of knowledge is that there are many more books on birds written by ornithologists than books on birds written by birds and books on ornithologists written by birds" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"What organized dating sites fail to understand is that the people are far more interesting in what they don't say about themselves." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"To bankrupt a fool, give him information." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Most humans manage to squander their free time, as free time makes them dysfunctional, lazy, and unmotivated—the busier they get, the more active they are at other tasks." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Abundance is harder for us to handle than scarcity." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Categorizing is necessary for humans, but it becomes pathological when the category is seen as definitive, preventing people from considering the fuzziness of boundaries," -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The inability to predict outliers implies the inability to predict the course of history" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Ideas come and go, stories stay." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Those who were unlucky in life in spite of their skills would eventually rise. The lucky fool might have benefited from some luck in life; over the longer run he would slowly converge to the state of a less-lucky idiot. Each one would revert to his long-term properties." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Modernity has replaced ethics with legalese, and the law can be gamed with a good lawyer." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"He who has never sinned is less reliable than he who has only sinned once." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The imagination of the genius vastly surpasses his intellect; the intellect of the academic vastly surpasses his imagination" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The simpler, the better. Complications lead to multiplicative chains of unanticipated effects." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I will repeat the following until I am hoarse: it is contagion that determines the fate of a theory in social science, not its validity." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"If you survive until tomorrow, it could mean that either a) you are more likely to be immortal or b) that you are closer to death." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"true humility is when you can surprise yourself more than others; the rest is either shyness or good marketing" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Some things benefit from shocks; they thrive and grow when exposed to volatility, randomness, disorder, and stressors and love adventure, risk, and uncertainty." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"What matters isn't what a person has or doesn't have; it is what he or she is afraid of losing." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Prediction, not narration, is the real test of our understanding of the world." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I suspect the I.Q., SAT, and school grades are tests designed by nerds so they can get high scores in order to call each other intelligent...Smart and wise people who score low on IQ tests, or patently intellectually defective ones, like the former U.S. president George W. Bush, who score high on them (130), are testing the test and not the reverse." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The best way to verify that you are alive is by checking if you like variations. Remember that food would not have a taste if it weren't for hunger; results are meaningless without effort, joy without sadness, convictions without uncertainty, and an ethical life isn't so when stripped of personal risks." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I am most often irritated by those who attack the bishop but somehow fall for the securities analyst--those who exercise their skepticism against religion but not against economists, social scientists, and phony statisticians. Using the confirmation bias, these people will tell you that religion was horrible for mankind by counting deaths from the Inquisition and various religious wars. But they will not show you how many people were killed by nationalism, social science, and political theory under Stalin or during the Vietnam War. Even priests don't go to bishops when they feel ill: their first stop is the doctor's. But we stop by the offices of many pseudoscientists and experts without alternative. We no longer believe in papal infallibility; we seem to believe in the infallibility of the Nobel, though...." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We are quick to forget that just being alive is an extraordinary piece of good luck, a remote event, a chance occurrence of monstrous proportions." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Believe me, it is tough to deal with the social consequences of the appearance of continuous failure. We are social animals; hell is other people." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Let me be more aggressive: we are largely better at doing than we are at thinking, thanks to antifragility. I'd rather be dumb and antifragile than extremely smart and fragile, any time." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The classical man's worst fear was inglorious death; the modern man's worst fear is just death" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I don't run for trains." Snub your destiny. I have taught myself to resist running to keep on schedule. This may seem a very small piece of advice, but it registered. In refusing to run to catch trains, I have felt the true value of elegance and aesthetics in behavior, a sense of being in control of my time, my schedule, and my life. Missing a train is only painful if you run after it! Likewise, not matching the idea of success others expect from you is only painful if that's what you are seeking. You stand above the rat race and the pecking order, not outside of it, if you do so by choice." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Never ask anyone for their opinion, forecast, or recommendation. Just ask them what they have—or don't have—in their portfolio." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Bureaucracy is a construction by which a person is conveniently separated from the consequences of his or her actions." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"If you want to get an idea of a friend's temperament, ethics, and personal elegance, you need to look at him under the tests of severe circumstances, not under the regular rosy glow of daily life." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"In poor countries, officials receive explicit bribes; in D.C. they get the sophisticated, implicit, unspoken promise to work for large corporations" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Those who talk should do and only those who do should talk." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"By all means, avoid words—threats, complaints, justification, narratives, reframing, attempts to win arguments, supplications; avoid words!" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Never ask a man if he is from Sparta: If he were, he would have let you know such an important fact - and if he were not, you could hurt his feelings." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The difference between successful people and really successful people is that really successful people say no to almost everything," -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I propose that if you want a simple step to a higher form of life, as distant from the animal as you can get, then you may have to denarrate, that is, shut down the television set, minimize time spent reading newspapers, ignore the blogs. Train your reasoning abilities to control your decisions; nudge System 1 (the heuristic or experiential system) out of the important ones. Train yourself to spot the difference between the sensational and the empirical. This insulation from the toxicity of the world will have an additional benefit: it will improve your well-being." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"You can define a free person precisely as someone whose fate is not centrally or directly dependent on peer assessment." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A mistake is not something to be determined after the fact, but in light of the information available until that point" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"that if you need something urgently done, give the task to the busiest (or second busiest) person in the office." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"My best definition of a nerd: someone who asks you to explain an aphorism" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Suckers think that you cure greed with money, addiction with substances, expert problems with experts, banking with bankers, economics with economists, and debt crises with debt spending" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Courage is the only virtue you cannot fake." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Avoidance of boredom is the only worthy mode of action. Life otherwise is not worth living.)" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Steve Jobs: "People think focus means saying yes to the thing you've got to focus on. But that's not what it means at all. It means saying no to the hundred other good ideas that there are. You have to pick carefully. I'm actually as proud of the things we haven't done as the things I have done. Innovation is saying no to 1,000 things." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The strategy for the discoverers and entrepreneurs is to rely less on top-down planning and focus on maximum tinkering and recognizing opportunities when they present themselves. So I disagree with the followers of Marx and those of Adam Smith: the reason free markets work is because they allow people to be lucky, thanks to aggressive trial and error, not by giving rewards or "incentives" for skill. The strategy is, then, to tinker as much as possible and try to collect as many Black Swan opportunities as you can." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I am, at the Fed level, libertarian;at the state level, Republican;at the local level, Democrat;and at the family and friends level, asocialist.If that sayingdoesn't convince you of the fatuousnessof left vs. right labels, nothing will." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Those who do not think that employment is systemic slavery are either blind or employed." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"No matter how sophisticated our choices, how good we are at dominating the odds, randomness will have the last word." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"For studying courage in textbooks doesn't make you any more courageous than eating cow meat makes you bovine. By some mysterious mental mechanism, people fail to realize that the principal thing you can learn from a professor is how to be a professor—and the chief thing you can learn from, say, a life coach or inspirational speaker is how to become a life coach or inspirational speaker. So remember that the heroes of history were not classicists and library rats, those people who live vicariously in their texts. They were people of deeds and had to be endowed with the spirit of risk taking" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"You need a story to displace a story." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Curiosity is antifragile, like an addiction, and is magnified by attempts to satisfy it—books have a secret mission and ability to multiply, as everyone who has wall-to-wall bookshelves knows well." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"You can afford to be compassionate, lax, and courteous if, once in a while, when it is least expected of you, but completely justified, you sue someone, or savage an enemy, just to show that you can walk the walk." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"My dear Socrates … you know why they are putting you to death? It is because you make people feel stupid for blindly following habits, instincts, and traditions. You may be occasionally right. But you may confuse them about things they've been doing just fine without getting in trouble. You are destroying people's illusions about themselves. You are taking the joy of ignorance out of the things we don't understand. And you have no answer; you have no answer to offer them." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Consider a turkey that is fed every day. Every single feeding will firm up the bird's belief that it is the general rule of life to be fed every day by friendly members of the human race "looking out for its best interests," as a politician would say. On the afternoon of the Wednesday before Thanksgiving, something unexpected will happen to the turkey. It will incur a revision of belief.*" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The four most influential moderns: Darwin, Marx, Freud, and (the productive) Einstein were scholars but not academics. It has always been hard to do genuine - and no perishable - work within institutions" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"You know you have influence when people start noticing your absence more than the presence of others." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"More data—such as paying attention to the eye colors of the people around when crossing the street—can make you miss the big truck." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"much of what other people know isn't worth knowing." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"You do not want to win an argument. You want to win." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Work destroys your soul by stealthily invading your brain during the hours not officially spent working; be selective about professions." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"This idea that in order to make a decision you need to focus on the consequences (which you can know) rather than the probability (which you can't know) is the central idea of uncertainty." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We grossly overestimate the length of the effect of misfortune on our lives. You think that the loss of your fortune or current position will be devastating, but you are probably wrong. More likely, you will adapt to anything, as you probably did after past misfortunes." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"If you do not take risks for your opinion, you are nothing." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Many people keep deploring the low level of formal education in the United states (as defined by, say, math grades). Yet these fail to realize that the new comes from here and gets imitated elsewhere. And it is not thanks to universities, which obviously claim a lot more credit than their accomplishments warrant. Like Britain in the Industrial Revolution, America's asset is, simply, risk taking and the use of optionality, this remarkable ability to engage in rational forms fo trial and error, with no comparative shame in failing again, starting again, and repeating failure." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We favor the visible, the embedded, the personal, the narrated, and the tangible; we scorn the abstract." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The next time someone pesters you with unneeded advice, gently remind him of the fate of the monk whom Ivan the Terrible put to death for delivering uninvited (and moralizing) advice. It works as a short-term cure." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Primitive societies are largely free of cardiovascular disease, cancer, dental cavities, economic theories, lounge music, and other modern ailments." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It is said that the best horses lose when they compete with slower ones and win against better rivals. Undercompensation from the absence of a stressor,inverse hormesis, absence of challenge, degrades the best of the best." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"As a matter of fact, your happiness depends far more on the number of instances of positive feelings, what psychologists call positive effect, then on their intensity when they hit. In other words, good news is good news first. How good matters rather little. So to have a pleasant life you should spread those small effects across time as evenly as possible. Plenty of mildly good news is preferable to one single lump of great news. The same is property in reverse applies to our unhappiness. It is better to lump all your pain into a brief period, rather than have it spread out over a long time." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"THE ONE THING YOU MUST DOThere is one thing in this world you must never forget to do. If you forget everything else and not this, there's nothing to worry about, but if you remember everything else and forget this, then you will have done nothing in your life.It's as if a king has sent you to some country to do a task, and you perform a hundred other services, but not the one he sent you to do. So human being come to this world to do particular work. That work is the purpose, and each is specific to the person. If you don't do it, it's as though a priceless Indian sword were used to slice rotten meat. It's a golden bowl being used to cook turnips, when one filing from the bowl could buy a hundred suitable pots. It's like a knife of the finest tempering nailed into a wall to hang things on.You say, But look, I'm using the dagger. It's not lying idle. Do you hear how ludicrous that sounds? For a penny an iron nail could be bought to serve for that. You say, But I spend my energies on lofty enterprises. I study jurisprudence and philosophy and logic and astronomy and medicine and the rest. But consider why you do those things. They are all branches of yourself.Remember the deep root of your being, the presence of your lord. Give yourself to the one who already owns your breath and your moments. If you don't, you will be like the man who takes a precious dagger and hammers it into his kitchen wall for a peg to hold his dipper gourd. You'll be wasting valuable keenness and forgetting your dignity and purpose." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Every social association that is not face-to-face is injurious to your health" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Books to me are not expanded journal articles, but reading experiences, and the academics who tend to read in order to cite in their writing--rather than read for enjoyment, curiosity, or simply because they like to read--tend to be frustrated when they can't rapidly scan the text and summarize it in one sentence that connects it to some existing discourse in which they have been involved." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Never listen to a leftist who does not give away his fortune or does not live the exact lifestyle he wants others to follow. What the French call "the caviar left," la gauche caviar, or what Anglo-Saxons call champagne socialists, are people who advocate socialism, sometimes even communism, or some political system with sumptuary limitations, while overtly leading a lavish lifestyle, often financed by inheritance—not realizing the contradiction that they want others to avoid just such a lifestyle. It is not too different from the womanizing popes, such as John XII, or the Borgias. The contradiction can exceed the ludicrous as with French president François Mitterrand of France who, coming in on a socialist platform, emulated the pomp of French monarchs. Even more ironic, his traditional archenemy, the conservative General de Gaulle, led a life of old-style austerity and had his wife sew his socks." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Probability and expectation are not the same. Its probability and probability times the pay off." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Humans will believe anything you say provided you do not exhibit the smallest shadow of diffidence; like animals, they can detect the smallest crack in your confidence before you express it. The trick is to be as smooth as possible in personal manners. It is much easier to signal self-confidence if you are exceedingly polite and friendly; you can control people without having to offend their sensitivity." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"When things go our way we reject the lack of certainty." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Success brings an asymmetry: you now have a lot more to lose than to gain. You are hence fragile." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A Stoic is a Buddhist with attitude, one who says "f*** you" to fate." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Beware of the person who gives advice, telling you that a certain action on your part is "good for you" while it is also good for him, while the harm to you doesn't directly affect him." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Start by being nice to every person you meet. But if someone tries to exercise power over you, exercise power over him." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Don't tell me what you think, tell me what you have in your portfolio." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Finally, when young people who "want to help mankind" come to me asking, "What should I do? I want to reduce poverty, save the world," and similar noble aspirations at the macro-level, my suggestion is: 1) Never engage in virtue signaling; 2) Never engage in rent-seeking; 3) You must start a business. Put yourself on the line, start a business." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Scars signal skin in the game." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Entrepreneurs are heroes in our society. They fail for the rest of us." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
". . . the world in which we live has an increasing number of feedback loops, causing events to be the cause of more events (say, people buy a book because other people bought it), thus generating snowballs and arbitrary and unpredictable planet-wide winner-take-all effects." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"More data means more information, but it also means more false information." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Bullish or bearish are terms used by people who do not engage in practicing uncertainty, like the television commentators, or those who have no experience in handling risk. Alas, investors and businesses are not paid in probabilities; they are paid in dollars. Accordingly, it is not how likely an event is to happen that matters, it is how much is made when it happens that should be the consideration." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Just as no monkey is as good-looking as the ugliest of humans, no academic is worthier than the worst of the creators" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Since procrastination is a message from our natural willpower via low motivation, the cure is changing the environment, or one's profession, by selecting one in which one does not have to fight one's impulses. Few can grasp the logical consequence that, instead, one should lead a life in which procrastination is good, as a naturalistic-risk-based form of decision making." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I feel anger and frustration when I think that one in ten Americans beyond the age of high school is on some kind of antidepressant, such as Prozac. Indeed, when you go through mood swings, you now have to justify why you are not on some medication. There may be a few good reasons to be on medication, in severely pathological cases, but my mood, my sadness, my bouts of anxiety, are a second source of intelligence--perhaps even the first source. I get mellow and lose physical energy when it rains, become more meditative, and tend to write more and more slowly then, with the raindrops hitting the window, what Verlaine called autumnal sobs (sanglots). Some days I enter poetic melancholic states, what the Portuguese call saudade or the Turks huzun (from the Arabic word for sadness). Other days I am more aggressive, have more energy--and will write less, walk more, do other things, argue with researchers, answer emails, draw graphs on blackboards. Should I be turned into a vegetable or a happy imbecile?" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"never trust the words of a man who is not free." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The epiphany I had in my career in randomness came when I understood that I was not intelligent enough, nor strong enough, to even try to fight my emotions." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A good book gets better at the second reading. A great book at the third. Any book not worth rereading isn't worth reading." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Seneca and stoicism as a back door to explain why everything antifragile has to have more upside than downside" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"...my classical values make me advocate the triplet of erudition, elegance, and courage; against modernity's phoniness, nerdiness, and philistinism...many philistines reduce my ideas to an opposition of technology when in fact I am opposing the naive blindness to it's side affects - the fragility criterion. I'd rather be unconditional about ethical and conditional about technology than the the reverse." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The rationalist imagines an imbecile-free society; the empiricist and imbecile-proof one, or even better, a rationalist-proof one." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A saying by the brothers Geoff and Vince Graham summarizes the ludicrousness of scale-free political universalism. I am, at the Fed level, libertarian; at the state level, Republican; at the local level, Democrat; and at the family and friends level, a socialist." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Alexander said that it was preferable to have an army of sheep led by a lion than an army of lions led by a sheep." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"They agree that chess training only improves chess skills but disagree that classroom training (almost) only improves classroom skills." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Scientists may be in the business of laughing at their predecessors, but owing to an array of human mental dispositions, few realize that someone will laugh at their beliefs in the (disappointingly near) future." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The world as a whole has never been richer, and it has never been more heavily in debt, living off borrowed money. The record shows that, for society, the richer we become, the harder it get to live within our means. Abundance is harder for us to handle than scarcity." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"If the past, by bringing surprises, did not resemble the past previous to it (what I call the past's past), then why should our future resemble our current past?" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"No person in a transaction should have certainty about the outcome while the other one has uncertainty." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The only definition of rationality that I've found that is practically, empirically, and mathematically rigorous is the following: what is rational is that which allows for survival. Unlike modern theories by psychosophasters, it maps to the classical way of thinking. Anything that hinders one's survival at an individual, collective, tribal, or general level is, to me, irrational." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Mild success can be explainable by skills and labor. Wild success is attributable to variance." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"How much you truly "believe" in something can be manifested only through what you are willing to risk for it." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Let us return to pathemata mathemata (learning through pain) and consider its reverse: learning through thrills and pleasure. People have two brains, one when there is skin in the game, one when there is none. Skin in the game can make boring things less boring. When you have skin in the game, dull things like checking the safety of the aircraft because you may be forced to be a passenger in it cease to be boring. If you are an investor in a company, doing ultra-boring things like reading the footnotes of a financial statement (where the real information is to be found) becomes, well, almost not boring." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"he tends to mistake the unknown for the nonexistent." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We humans are the victims of an asymmetry in the perception of random events. We attribute our successes to our skills, and our failures to external events outside our control, namely to randomness." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It is as if the mission of modernity was to squeeze every drop of variability and randomness out of life— with the ironic result of making the world a lot more unpredictable, as if the goddesses of chance wanted to have the last word." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Imagine a speck of dust next to a planet a billion times the size of the earth. The speck of dust represents the odds in favor of your being born; the huge planet would be the odds against it. So stop sweating the small stuff. Don't be like the ingrate who got a castle as a present and worried about the mildew in the bathroom. Stop looking the gift horse in the mouth—remember that you are a Black Swan." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Luck is the grand equalizer." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"My lesson from Soros is to start every meeting at my boutique by convincing everyone that we are a bunch of idiots who know nothing and are mistake-prone, but happen to be endowed with the rare privilege of knowing it." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Most info-Web-media-newspaper types have a hard time swallowing the idea that knowledge is reached (mostly) by removing junk from peoples heads" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"English does not distinguish between arrogant-up (irreverence toward the temporarily powerful) and arrogant-down (directed at the small guy)." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The Black Swan asymmetry allows you to be confident about what is wrong, not about what you believe is right." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I use the example as computed by the mathematician Michael Berry. If you know a set of basic parameters concerning the ball at rest, can compute the resistance of the table (quite elementary), and can gauge the strength of the impact, then it is rather easy to predict what would happen at the first hit. The second impact becomes more complicated, but possible; you need to be more careful about your knowledge of the initial states, and more precision is called for. The problem is that to correctly predict the ninth impact, you need to take into account the gravitational pull of someone standing next to the table (modestly, Berry's computations use a weight of less than 150 pounds). And to compute the fifty-sixth impact, every single elementary particle of the universe needs to be present in your assumptions!" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"An idea stats to be interesting when you get scared of taking it to its logical conclusion." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Mathematics is principally a tool to meditate, rather than to compute." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Since the Enlightenment, in the great tension between rationalism (how we would like things to be so they make sense to us) and empiricism (how things are), we have been blaming the world for not fitting the beds of "rational" models, have tried to change humans to fit technology, fudged our ethics to fit our needs for employment, asked economic life to fit the theories of economists, and asked human life to squeeze into some narrative." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Men destroy each other during war, themselves during peacetime." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Wind extinguishes a candle and energizes fire. Likewise with randomness, uncertainty, chaos: you want to use them, not hide from them. You want to be the fire and wish for the wind." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I know that history is going to be dominated by an improbable event, I just don't know what that event will be." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The fool generalizes the particular; the nerd particularizes the general; some do both; and the wise does neither" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"be. So I follow the Lindy effect as a guide in selecting what to read: books that have been around for ten years will be around for ten more; books that have been around for two millennia should be around for quite a bit of time, and so forth." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The observation of the numerous misfortunes that attend all conditions forbids us to grow insolent upon our present enjoyments, or to admire a man's happiness that may yet, in course of time, suffer change. For the uncertain future has yet to come, with all variety of future; and to him only to whom the divinity has [guaranteed] continued happiness until the end we may call happy." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"For I have a single definition of success: you look in the mirror every evening, and wonder if you disappoint the person you were at 18, right before the age when people start getting corrupted by life. Let him or her be the only judge; not your reputation, not your wealth, not your standing in the community, not the decorations on your lapel. If you do not feel ashamed, you are successful. All other definitions of success are modern constructions; fragile modern constructions." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Living on our planet, today, requires a lot more imagination than we are made to have. We lack imagination and repress it in others." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"So knowledge grows by subtraction much more than by addition—given that what we know today might turn out to be wrong but what we know to be wrong cannot turn out to be right, at least not easily." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Maximum of an average is necessarily less volatile than the average maximum" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Our human race is affected by a chronic underestimation of the possibility of the future straying from the course initially envisioned (in addition to other biases that sometimes exert a compounding effect). To take an obvious example, think about how many people divorce. Almost all of them are acquainted with the statistic that between one-third and one-half of all marriages fail, something the parties involved did not forecast while tying the knot. Of course, not us, because we get along so well (as if others tying the knot got along poorly)." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"the best horses lose when they compete with slower ones, and win against better rivals." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Look into your own existence. Count the significant events, the technological changes, and the inventions that have taken place in our environment since you were born and compare them to what was expected before their advent. How many of them came on a schedule? Look into your own personal life, to your choice of profession, say, or meeting your mate, your exile from your country of origin, the betrayals you faced, your sudden enrichment or impoverishment. How often did these things occur according to plan?" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"So you become numb to insults, particularly if you teach yourself to imagine that the person uttering them is a variant of a noisy ape with little personal control. Just keep your composure, smile, focus on analyzing the speaker not the message, and you'll win the argument. An ad hominem attack against an intellectual, not against an idea, is highly flattering. It indicates that the person does not have anything intelligent to say about your message. The psychologist" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A life saved is a statistic; a person hurt is an anecdote. Statistics are invisible; anecdotes are salient." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The chief ethical rule is the following: Thou shalt not have antifragility at the expense of the fragility of others." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I write only if I feel like it and only on a subject I feel like writing about - and the reader is no fool. So I use procrastination as a message from my inner self and my deep evolutionary past to resist interventionism in my writing.Yet some psychologists and behavioral economists seem to think that procrastination is a " -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"If you want to study classical values such as courage or learn about stoicism, don't necessarily look for classicists. One is never a career academic without a reason. Read the texts themselves: Seneca, Caesar, or Marcus Aurelius, when possible. Or read commentators on the classics who were doers themselves, such as Montaigne—people who at some point had some skin in the game, then retired to write books. Avoid the intermediary, when possible. Or fuhgetaboud the texts, just engage in acts of courage." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The problem with information is not that it is diverting and generally useless, but that it is toxic." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It is no secret that large corporations prefer people with families; those with downside risk are easier to own, particularly when they are choking under a large mortgage." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"People do not realize that the media is paid to get your attention. For a journalist, silence rarely surpasses any word." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"One useful trick, I discovered, is to avoid listening to the question of the interviewer, and answer with whatever I have been thinking about recently. Remarkably, neither the interviewers nor the public notices the absence of correlation between question and answer." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Authors, artists, and even philosophers are much better off having a very small number of fanatics behind them than a large number of people who appreciate their work. The number of persons who dislike the work don't count—there is no such thing as the opposite of buying your book," -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"When you walk the walk, whether successful or not, you feel more indifferent and robust to people's opinion, freer, more real." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It certainly takes bravery to remain skeptical; it takes inordinate courage to introspect, to confront oneself, to accept one's limitations--Scientists are seeing more and more evidence that we are specifically designed by mother nature to fool ourselves." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Regular minds find similarities in stories (and situations); finer minds detect differences." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"In science you need to understand the world; in business you need others to misunderstand it." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Education makes the wise slightly wiser, but it makes the fool vastly more dangerous." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It hit me right there and then that these antifragile hormetic responses were just a form of redundancy, and all the ideas of Mother Nature converged in my mind. It is all about redundancy. Nature likes to overinsure itself." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"People who are bred, selected, and compensated to find complicated solutions do not have an incentive to implement simplified ones." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Had Prozac been available last century, Baudelaire's spleen, Edgar Allan Poe's moods, the poetry of Sylvia Plath, the lamentations of so many other poets, everything with a soul would have been silenced*....If large pharmaceutical companies were able to eliminate the seasons, they would probably do so--for profit, of course.*This does not mean that Sylvia Plath should not have been medicated at all. The point is that pathologies should be medicated when there is risk of suicide, not mood swings." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Pasteur said, like all great discoverers, he knew something about accidental discoveries. The best way to get maximal exposure is to keep researching. Collect opportunities--" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Too much success is the enemy, too much failure is demoralizing." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"To understand the future, you do not need technoautistic jargon, obsession with "killer apps," these sort of things. You just need the following: some respect for the past, some curiosity about the historical record, a hunger for the wisdom of the elders, and a grasp of the notion of "heuristics," these often unwritten rules of thumb that are so determining of survival. In other words, you will be forced to give weight to things that have been around, things that have survived." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Note another element of Switzerland: it is perhaps the most successful country in history, yet it has traditionally had a very low level of university education compared to the rest of the rich nations. Its system, even in banking during my days, was based on apprenticeship models, nearly vocational rather than the theoretical ones. In other words, on techne (crafts and know how), not episteme (book knowledge, know what)." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I am sometimes taken aback by how people can have a miserable day or get angry because they feel cheated by a bad meal, cold coffee, a social rebuff or a rude reception. We are quick to forget that just being alive is an extraordinary piece of good luck, a remote event, a chance of occurrence of monstrous proportions. Imagine a speck of dust next to a planet a billion times the size of earth. The speck of dust represents the odds in favor of your being born; the huge planet would be the odds against it. So stop sweating the small stuff. Don't be like the ingrate who got a castle as a present and worried about the mildew in the bathroom. Stop looking at the gift horse in the mouth – remember you are a Black Swan." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Roman emperor Marcus Aurelius (one of the doer-Stoic authors), "fire feeds on obstacles." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I will set aside the point that I see no special heroism in accumulating money, particularly if, in addition, the person is foolish enough to not even try to derive any tangible benefit from the wealth (aside from the pleasure of regularly counting the beans)." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Rational flâneur (or just flâneur): Someone who, unlike a tourist, makes a decision opportunistically at every step to revise his schedule (or his destination) so he can imbibe things based on new information obtained. In research and entrepreneurship, being a flâneur is called "looking for optionality." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We favor the sensational and the extremely visible. This affects the way we judge heroes. There is little room in our consciousness for heroes who do not deliver visible results—or those heroes who focus on process rather than results." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Hunger (or episodic energy deficit) strengthens the body and the immune system and helps rejuvenate brain cells, weaken cancer cells , and prevent diabetes." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"There is asymmetry. Those who die do so very early in the game, while those who live go on living very long. Whenever there is asymmetry in outcomes, the average survival has nothing to do with the median survival." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Clearly, an open mind is a necessity when dealing with randomness. Popper believed that any idea of Utopia is necessarily closed owing to the fact that it chokes its own refutations. The simple notion of a good model for society that cannot be left open for falsification is totalitarian. I learned from Popper, in addition to the difference between an open and a closed society, that between an open and a closed mind." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The opposite of manliness isn't cowardice; it's technology." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A mathematician starts with a problem and creates a solution; a consultant starts by offering a "solution" and creates a problem." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Further, in writing, I feel corrupt and unethical if I have to look up a subject in a library as part of the writing itself. This acts as a filter--it is the only filter. If the subject is not interesting enough for me to look it up , for my own curiosity or purposes, and I have not done so before, then I should not be writing about it at all, period. It does not mean that libraries (physical and virtual) are not acceptable; it means that they should not be the source of any idea." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We ingest probiotics because we don't eat enough "dirt" anymore." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"In an antique city-state, or a modern municipality, shame is the penalty for the violation of ethics—making things more symmetric. Banishment and exile, or, worse, ostracism were severe penalties—people did not move around voluntarily and considered uprooting a horrible calamity. In larger organisms like the mega holy nation-state, with a smaller role for face-to-face encounters, and social roots, shame ceases to fulfill its duty of disciplinarian." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"If humans fight the last war, nature fights the next one." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Complex systems are full of interdependencies—hard to detect—and nonlinear responses." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"In the past, only some of the males, but all of the females, were able to procreate. Equality is more natural for females." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"History is opaque. You see what comes out, not the script that produces events, the generator of history." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A man is honorable in proportion to the personal risks he takes for his opinion." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Decentralization is based on the simple notion that it is easier to macrobull***t than microbull***t. Decentralization reduces large structural asymmetries." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"So just as Stoicism is the domestication, not the elimination, of emotions, so is the barbell a domestication, not the elimination, of uncertainty." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The problem is that our ideas are sticky: once we produce a theory, we are not likely to change our minds...." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Recall that the fragile wants tranquility, the antifragile grows from disorder, and the robust doesn't care too much." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The excess energy released from overreaction to setbacks is what innovates!" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"it is only when you don't care about your reputation that you tend to have a good one." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"What I learned on my own I still remember." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Contra the prevailing belief, success isn't being on top of a hierarchy, it is standing outside all hierarchies." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Evidence shows that we do much less thinking than we believe we do—except, of course, when we think about it." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"In a thick and captivating book, La rebellion française, the historian Jean Nicolas shows how the culture of rioting was extremely sophisticated—historically, it counts as the true French national sport." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"be sophisticated you need to accept that you are not so." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Let us say that, in general, failure (and disconfirmation) are more informative than success and confirmation, which is why I claim that negative knowledge is just "more robust." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Almost all people answer that the opposite of fragile is robust, resilient, solid, or something of the sort. But the resilient, robust (and company) items that neither break nor improve, so you would not need to write anything on them--have you ever seen a package with robust in thick green letters stamped on it? Logically, the exact opposite of a fragile parcel would be a package on which one has written please mishandle or please handle carelessly." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It seems that it is the most unsuccessful people who give the most advice, particularly for writing and financial matters." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"You are rich if money you refuse tastes better than money you accept." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Increasingly, data can only truly deliver via negativa–style knowledge—it can be effectively used to debunk, not confirm." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"making some types of errors is the most rational thing to do, when the errors are of little cost, as they lead to discoveries. For instance, most medical "discoveries"are accidental to something else. An error-free world would have no penicillin, no chemotherapy…almost no drugs, and most probably no humans. This is why I have been against the state dictating to us what we "should"be doing: only evolution knows if the "wrong"thing is really wrong, provided there is skin in the game to allow for selection." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A verbal threat is the most authentic certificate of impotence." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"You can tell how uninteresting a person is by asking him whom he finds interesting." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It is not what you are telling people, it is how you are saying it." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"keeping one's distance from an ignorant person is equivalent to keeping company with a wise man." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"My dream—the solution—is that we would have a National Entrepreneur Day, with the following message: Most of you will fail, disrespected, impoverished, but we are grateful for the risks you are taking and the sacrifices you are making for the sake of the economic growth of the planet and pulling others out of poverty. You are at the source of our antifragility. Our nation thanks you." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"what you learn from the intensity and the focus you had when under the influence of risk stays with you. You may lose the sharpness, but nobody can take away what you've learned. This is the principal reason I am now fighting the conventional educational system, made by dweebs for dweebs. Many kids would learn to love mathematics if they had some investment in it, and, more crucially, they would build an instinct to spot its misapplications." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"One death is a tragedy; a million is a statistic." Statistics stay silent in us." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"You can imagine how distraught I feel when I hear about the glorified heroism-free "middle class values," which, thanks to globalization and the Internet, have spread to any place easily reached by British Air, enshrining the usual opiates of the deified classes: "hard work" for a bank or a tobacco company, diligent newspaper reading, obedience to most, but not all, traffic laws, captivity in some corporate structure, dependence on the opinion of a boss (with one's job records filed in the personnel department), good legal compliance, reliance on stock market investments, tropical vacations, and a suburban life (under some mortgage) with a nice-looking dog and Saturday night wine tasting." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Academics are only useful when they try to be useless (say, as in mathematics and philosophy) and dangerous when they try to be useful." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"But they never notice the following inconsistency: this so-called worst-case event, when it happened, exceeded the worst case at the time." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"What should we control? As a rule, intervening to limit size (of companies, airports, or sources of pollution), concentration, and speed are beneficial in reducing Black Swan risks." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Wind extinguishes a candle and energizes fire." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"There is a simple test to define path dependence of beliefs (economists have a manifestation of it called the endowment effect). Say you own a painting you bought for $20,000, and owing to rosy conditions in the art market, it is now worth $40,000. If you owned no painting, would you still acquire it at the current price? If you would not, then you are said to be married to your position. There is no rational reason to keep a painting you would not buy at its current market rate—only an emotional investment. Many people get married to their ideas all the way to the grave. Beliefs are said to be path dependent if the sequence of ideas is such that the first one dominates." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The person you are the most afraid to contradict is yourself." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Those who believe in the unconditional benefits of past experience should consider this pearl of wisdom allegedly voiced by a famous ship's captain: But in all my experience, I have never been in any accident… of any sort worth speaking about. I have seen but one vessel in distress in all my years at sea. I never saw a wreck and never have been wrecked nor was I ever in any predicament that threatened to end in disaster of any sort. E. J. Smith, 1907, Captain, RMS Titanic Captain Smith's ship sank in 1912 in what became the most talked-about shipwreck in history.*" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"What is surprising is not the magnitude of our forecast errors, but our absence of awareness of it. This is all the more worrisome when we engage in deadly conflicts: wars are fundamentally unpredictable (and we do not know it). Owing to this misunderstanding of the causal chains between policy and actions, we can easily trigger Black Swans thanks to aggressive ignorance-like a child playing with a chemistry kit." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The only article Lady Fortuna has no control over is your behavior. Good luck." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Many amateurs believe that plants and animals reproduce on a one-way route toward perfection. Translating the idea in social terms, they believe that companies and organizations are, thanks to competition (and the discipline of the quarterly report), irreversibly heading toward betterment. The strongest will survive; the weakest will become extinct. As to investors and traders, they believe that by letting them compete, the best will prosper and the worst will go learn a new craft (like pumping gas or, sometimes, dentistry). Things are not as simple as that. We will ignore the basic misuse of Darwinian ideas in the fact that organizations do not reproduce like living members of nature—Darwinian ideas are about reproductive fitness, not about survival." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"(J)ust as we tend to underestimate the role of luck in life in general, we tend to  it in games of chance." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Unless you are perfectly narcissistic and psychopathic—even then—your worst-case scenario is never limited to the loss of only your life." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"those who do too much somewhere do too little elsewhere" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Please, don't drive a school bus blindfolded." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Sometimes people ask you a question with their eyes begging you to not tell them the truth." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It is a very recent disease to mistake the unobserved for the nonexistent; but some are plagued with the worse disease of mistaking the unobserved for the unobservable." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Just as in matters of seduction, people lend the most to those who need them the least." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"[T]he worst thing one can do to feel one knows things a bit deeper is to try to go into them a bit deeper." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Silver Rule (negative golden rule): Do not do to others what you would not like them to do to you. Note the difference from the Golden Rule, as the silver one prevents busybodies from attempting to run your life." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It is much more immoral to claim virtue without fully living with its direct consequences." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Convincing - and confident - disciplines, say, physics, tend to use little statistical backup, while political science and economics, which have never produced anything of note, are full of elaborate statistics and statistical "evidence" (and you know that once you remove the smoke, the evidence is not evidence)." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Imagine taking a test knowing the answer. While we know that history flows forward, it is difficult to realize that we envision it backward. Why is it so? We will discuss the point in Chapter 11 but here is a possible explanation: Our minds are not quite designed to understand how the world works, but, rather, to get out of trouble rapidly and have progeny. If they were made for us to understand things, then we would have a machine in it that would run the past history as in a VCR, with a correct chronology, and it would slow us down so much that we would have trouble operating. Psychologists call this overestimation of what one knew at the time of the event due to subsequent information the hindsight bias, the "I knew it all along" effect." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"How do you innovate? First, try to get in trouble. I mean serious, but not terminal, trouble. I hold—it is beyond speculation, rather a conviction—that innovation and sophistication spark from initial situations of necessity, in ways that go far beyond the satisfaction of such necessity (from the unintended side effects of, say, an initial invention or attempt at invention)." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"They think that intelligence is about noticing things that are relevant (detecting patterns); in a complex world, intelligence consists in ignoring things that are irrelevant (avoiding false patterns)." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"anything that has more upside than downside from random events (or certain shocks) is antifragile; the reverse is fragile." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The traits I respect are erudition and the courage to stand up when half-men are afraid for their reputation. Any idiot can be intelligent." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Artisans, say, taxi drivers, prostitutes (a very, very old profession), carpenters, plumbers, tailors, and dentists, have some volatility in their income but they are rather robust to a minor professional Black Swan, one that would bring their income to a complete halt. Their risks are visible. Not so with employees, who have no volatility, but can be surprised to see their income going to zero after a phone call from the personnel department. Employees' risks are hidden." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Avoid taking advice from someone who gives advice for a living, unless there is a penalty for their advice." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"But never engage in detailed overexplanations of why something is important: one debases a principle by endlessly justifying it." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"To understand how something works, figure out how to break it." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Your reputation is harmed the most by what you say to defend it." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Someone with a low degree of epistemic arrogance is not too visible, like a shy person at a cocktail party. We are not predisposed to respect humble people, those who try to suspend judgement. Now contemplate epistemic humility. Think of someone heavily introspective, tortured by the awareness of his own ignorance. He lacks the courage of the idiot, yet has the rare guts to say I don't know. He does not mind looking like a fool or, worse, an ignoramus. He hesitates, he will not commit, and he agonizes over the consequences of being wrong. He introspects, introspects, and introspects until he reaches physical and nervous exhaustion.This does not necessarily mean he lacks confidence, only that he holds his own knowledge to be suspect. I will call such a person an epistemocrat; the province where the laws are structured with this kind of human fallibility in mind I will can an epistemocracy." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"for Mother Nature, opinions and predictions don't count; surviving is what matters." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Don't complain too loud about wrongs done you; you may give ideas to your less imaginative enemies." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"You need a story to displace a story. Metaphors and stories are far more potent (alas) than ideas; they are also easier to remember and more fun to read. If I have to go after what I call the narrative disciplines, my best tool is a narrative.Ideas come and go, stories stay." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"At the end, what matters is the strength of the string—not the wealth and power of the dining party." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"You can tell if a discipline is BS if the degree depends severely on the prestige of the school granting it. I remember when I applied to MBA programs being told that anything outside the top ten or twenty would be a waste of time. On the other hand a degree in mathematics is much less dependent on the school (conditional on being above a certain level, so the heuristic would apply to the difference between top ten and top two thousand schools). The same applies to research papers. In math and physics, a result posted on the repository site arXiv (with a minimum hurdle) is fine. In low-quality fields like academic finance (where papers are usually some form of complicated storytelling), the "prestige" of the journal is the sole criterion." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Some people are only funny when they try to be serious." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Asking science to explain life and vital matters is equivalent to asking a grammarian to explain poetry." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Prediction requires knowing about technologies that will be discovered in the future. But that very knowledge would almost automatically allow us to start developing those technologies right away. Ergo, we do not know what we will know." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The problem with experts is that they do not know what they do not know." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"My experience is that money and transactions purify relations; ideas and abstract matters like recognition and credit warp them, creating an atmosphere of perpetual rivalry." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It is the system and its fragility, not events, that must be studied—what" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Mental effort moves us into higher gear, activating more vigorous and more analytical brain machinery." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Technology is the result of antifragility, exploited by risk-takers in the form of tinkering and trial and error, with nerd-driven design confined to the backstage." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"In other words, history teaches us to avoid the brand of naive empiricism that consists of learning from casual historical facts." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It is my great hope someday to see science and decision makers rediscover what the ancients have always known, namely that our highest currency is respect." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"If you ever do have to heed a forecast, keep in mind that its accuracy degrades rapidly as you extend it through time." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Almost everything in social life is produced by rare but consequential shocks and jumps; all the while almost everything studied about social life focuses on the "normal," particularly with "bell curve" methods of inference that tell you close to nothing. Why? Because the bell curve ignores large deviations, cannot handle them, yet makes us confident that we have tamed uncertainty. Its nickname in this book is GIF, Great Intellectual Fraud." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Missing a train is only painful if you run after it." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I've debated many economists who claim to specialize in risk and probability: when one takes them slightly outside their narrow focus, but within the discipline of probability, they fall apart, with the disconsolate face of a gym rat in front of a gangster hit man." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We do not need to be rational and scientific when it comes to the details of our daily life—only in those that can harm us and threaten our survival. Modern life seems to invite us to do the exact opposite; become extremely realistic and intellectual when it comes to such matters as religion and personal behavior, yet as irrational as possible when it comes to matters ruled by randomness (say, portfolio or real estate investments). I have encountered colleagues, "rational," no-nonsense people, who do not understand why I cherish the poetry of Baudelaire and Saint-John Perse or obscure (and often impenetrable) writers like Elias Canetti, J. L. Borges, or Walter Benjamin. Yet they get sucked into listening to the "analyses" of a television "guru," or into buying the stock of a company they know absolutely nothing about, based on tips by neighbors who drive expensive cars." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It is far easier to figure out if something is fragile than to predict the occurrence of an event that may harm it." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"People overvalue their knowledge and underestimate the probability of their being wrong." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Take the following potent and less-is-more-style argument by the rogue economist Ha-Joon Chang. In 1960 Taiwan had a much lower literacy rate than the Philippines and half the income per person; today Taiwan has ten times the income. At the same time, Korea had a much lower literacy rate than Argentina (which had one of the highest in the world) and about one-fifth the income per person; today it has three times as much. Further, over the same period, sub-Saharan Africa saw markedly increasing literacy rates, accompanied with a decrease in their standard of living. We can multiply the examples (Pritchet's study is quite thorough), but I wonder why people don't realize the simple truism, that is, the fooled by randomness effect: mistaking the merely associative for the causal, that is, if rich countries are educated, immediately inferring that education makes a country rich, without even checking. Epiphenomenon here again." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"There is no intermediate state between ice and water but there is one between life and death: employment." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A mistake is not something to be determined after the fact, but in the light of the information until that point" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"So I disagree with the followers of Marx and and those of Adam Smith: the reason free markets work is because they allow people to be lucky, thanks to aggressive trial and error, not by giving rewards or incentives for skill. The strategy is, then, to tinker as much as possible and try to collect as many Black Swan opportunities as you can." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The psychologist Gerd Gigerenzer has a simple heuristic. Never ask the doctor what you should do. Ask him what he would do if he were in your place. You would be surprised at the difference." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"there is something in nature you don't understand, odds are it makes sense in a deeper way that is beyond your understanding." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I have called this mental defect the Lucretius problem, after the Latin poetic philosopher who wrote that the fool believes that the tallest mountain in the world will be equal to the tallest one he has observed. We consider the biggest object of any kind that we have seen in our lives or hear about as the largest item that can possibly exist. And we have been doing this for millenia. In Pharaonic Egypt, which happens to be the first complete top-down nation-state managed by bureaucrats, scribes tracked the high-water mark of the Nile and used it as an estimate for a future worst-case scenario.The same can be seen in the Fukushima nuclear reactor, which experienced a catastrophic failure in 2011 when a tsunami struck. It had been built to withstand the worst past historical earthquake, with the builders not imagining much worse--and not thinking that the worst past event had to be a surprise, as it had no precedent. Likewise, the former chairman of the Federal Reserve, Fragilista Doctor Alan Greenspan, in his apology to Congress offered the classic It never happened before. Well, nature, unlike Fragilista Greenspan, prepares for what has not happened before, assuming worse harm is possible." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"This is the central illusion in life: that randomness is risky, that it is a bad thing—and that eliminating randomness is done by eliminating randomness." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A mathematician thinks in numbers, a lawyer in laws, and an idiot thinks in words." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Organisms need, to use the metaphor of Marcus Aurelius, to turn obstacles into fuel—just as fire does." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It seemed, wrote Machiavelli, that in the midst of murders and civil wars, our republic became stronger [and] its citizens infused with virtues. … A little bit of agitation gives resources to souls and what makes the species prosper isn't peace, but freedom." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The principle of intervention, like that of healers, is first do no harm (primum non nocere); even more, we will argue, those who don't take risks should never be involved in making decisions." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Not seeing a tsunami or an economic event coming is excusable; building something fragile to them is not." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"You will never fully convince someone that he is wrong; only reality can." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Beyond our perceptional distortions, there is a problem with logic itself. How can someone have no clue yet be able to hold a set of perfectly sound and coherent viewpoints that match the observations and abide by every single possible rule of logic? Consider that two people can hold incompatible beliefs based on the exact same data. Does this mean that there are possible families of explanations and that each of these can be equally perfect and sound? Certainly not. One may have a million ways to explain things, but the true explanation is unique, whether or not it is within our reach." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"History and societies do not crawl. They make jumps. They go from fracture to fracture, with a few vibrations in between. Yet we (and historians) like to believe in the predictable, small incremental progression." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Wisdom in the young is as unattractive as frivolity in the elderly." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A half-man (or, rather, half-person) is not someone who does not have an opinion, just someone who does not take risks for it." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Aesthetics, ethics, and many good things in humans are contagious." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The difference between slaves in Roman and Ottoman days and today's employees is that slaves did not need to flatter their boss." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Pure generosity is when you help the ingrate. Every other form is self-serving." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"What made medicine fool people for so long was that its successes were prominently displayed and its mistakes (literally) buried." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"common sense is nothing but a collection of misconceptions acquired by age eighteen. Furthermore, What sounds intelligent in a conversation or a meeting, or, particularly, in the media, is suspicious." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The true hero in the Black Swan world is someone who prevents a calamity and, naturally, because the calamity did not take place, does not get recognition—or a bonus—for it. I will be taking the concept deeper in Book VII, on ethics, about the unfairness of a bonus system and how such unfairness is magnified by complexity." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"There are secrets to our world that only practice can reveal, and no opinion or analysis will ever capture in full." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Nature likes to overinsure itself. Layers of redundancy are the central risk management property of natural systems. We humans have two kidneys (this may even include accountants), extra spare parts, and extra capacity in many, many things (say, lungs, neural system, arterial apparatus), while human design tends to be spare and inversely redundant, so to speak—we have a historical track record of engaging in debt, which is the opposite of redundancy (fifty thousand in extra cash in the bank or, better, under the mattress, is redundancy; owing the bank an equivalent amount, that is, debt, is the opposite of redundancy). Redundancy is ambiguous because it seems like a waste if nothing unusual happens. Except that something unusual happens—usually." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"formation of moral values in society doesn't come from the evolution of the consensus. No, it is the most intolerant person who imposes virtue on others precisely because of that intolerance." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The left holds that because markets are stupid models should be smart; the right believes that because models are stupid markets should be smart. Alas, it never hit both sides that both markets and models are very stupid." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"English "manners" were imposed on the middle class as a way of domesticating them, along with instilling in them the fear of breaking rules and violating social norms." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Having an assistant (except for the strictly necessary) removes your soul from the game." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Memory is more of a self-serving dynamic revision machine: you remember the last time you remembered the event, and without realizing it, ." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It takes considerable effort to see facts (and remember them) while withholding judgment and resisting explanations. And" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"it is impossible for our brain to see anything in raw form without some interpretation. We may not even always be conscious of it." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"You view the world from  a model." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Yes, an intolerant minority can control and destroy democracy. Actually, it will eventually destroy our world. So, we need to be more than intolerant with some intolerant minorities. Simply, they violate the Silver Rule. It is not permissible to use "American values" or "Western principles" in treating intolerant Salafism (which denies other peoples' right to have their own religion). The West is currently in the process of committing suicide." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Assume that you live in a town with two hospitals—one large, the other small. On a given day 60 percent of those born in one of the two hospitals are boys. Which hospital is it likely to be?" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"This, perhaps is true self-confidence: the ability to look at the world without the need to find signs that stroke one's ego." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Amateurs in any discipline are the best, if you can connect with them. Unlike dilettantes, career professionals are to knowledge what prostitutes are to love." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"In spite of what is studied in business schools concerning "economies of scale," size hurts you at times of stress; it is not a good idea to be large during difficult times." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"randomness in the end is just unknowledge. the world is opaque and appearances fool us" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"You get pseudo-order when you seek order; you only get a measure of order and control when you embrace randomness." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Heroes are heroes because they are heroic in behavior, not because they won or lost. Patrocles does not strike us as a hero because of his accomplishments (he was rapidly killed) but because he preferred to die than see Achilles sulking into inaction. Clearly, the epic poets understood invisible histories. Also later thinkers and poets had more elaborate methods for dealing with randomness, as we will see with stoicism." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Some business bets in which one wins big but infrequently, yet loses small but frequently, are worth making if others are suckers for them and if you have the personal and intellectual stamina." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Under opacity and in the newfound complexity of the world, people can hide risks and hurt others, with the law incapable of catching them. Iatrogenics has both delayed and invisible consequences. It is hard to see causal links, to fully understand what's going on. Under such epistemic limitations, skin in the game is the only true mitigator of fragility." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Because what matters in life isn't how frequently one is "right" about outcomes, but how much one makes when one is right. Being wrong, when it is not costly, doesn't count—in a way that's similar to trial-and-error mechanisms of research." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Information is antifragile; it feeds more on attempts to harm it than it does on efforts to promote it. For instance, many wreck their reputations merely by trying to defend them." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"This high-yield market resembles a nap on a railway track." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Realism is punishing. Probabilistic skepticism is worse." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"an ad hominen attack against an intellectual, not against an idea, is highly flattering. It indicates that the person does not have anything intelligent to say about your message." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The ethical is always more robust than the legal. Over time, it is the legal that should converge to the ethical, never the reverse." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Almost everything in social life is produced by rare but consequential shocks and jumps; all the while almost everything studied about social life focuses on the normal, particularly with bell curve methods of inference that tell you close to nothing. Why? Because the bell curve ignores large deviations, cannot handle them, yet makes us confident that we have tamed uncertainty. Its nickname in this book is GIF, Great Intellectual Fraud." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Things designed by people without skin in the game tend to grow in complication (before their final collapse). There is absolutely no benefit for someone in such a position to propose something simple: when you are rewarded for perception, not results, you need to show sophistication. Anyone who has submitted a "scholarly" paper to a journal knows that you usually raise the odds of acceptance by making it more complicated than necessary. Further, there are side effects for problems that grow nonlinearly with such branching-out complications. Worse: Non-skin-in-the-game people don't get simplicity." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Thirty-nine percent of Americans will spend a year in the top 5 percent of the income distribution, 56 percent will find themselves in the top 10 percent, and 73 percent will spend a year in the top 20 percent." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Alexander the Magnus was once called to solve the following challenge in the Phrygian city of Gordium (as usual with Greek stories, in modern-day Turkey). When he entered Gordium, he found an old wagon, its yoke tied with a multitude of knots, all so tightly entangled that it was impossible to figure out how they were fastened. An oracle had declared that he who would untie the knot would rule all of what was then called "Asia," that is, Asia Minor, the Levant, and the Middle East. After wrestling with the knot, the Magnus drew back from the lump of gnarled ropes, then made a proclamation that it didn't matter for the prophecy how the tangle was to be unraveled. He then drew his sword and, with a single stroke, cut the knot in half. No "successful" academic could ever afford to follow such a policy. And no Intellectual Yet Idiot. It took medicine a long time to realize that when a patient shows up with a headache, it is much better to give him aspirin or recommend a good night's sleep than do brain surgery, although the latter appears to be more "scientific." But most "consultants" and others paid by the hour are not there yet." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The appearance of busyness reinforces the perception of causality, of the link between results, and one's role in them." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The formation of our beliefs is fraught with superstitions—even today (I might say, especially today). Just as one day some primitive tribesman scratched his nose, saw rain falling, and developed an elaborate method of scratching his nose to bring on the much-needed rain, we link economic prosperity to some rate cut by the Federal Reserve Board, or the success of a company with the appointment of the new president "at the helm." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The hippocampus is the structure where memory is supposedly controlled. It is the most plastic part of the brain; it is also the part that is assumed to absorb all the damage from repeated insults like the chronic stress we experience daily from small doses of negative feelings—as opposed to the invigorating "good stress" of the tiger popping up occasionally in your living room. You can rationalize all you want; the hippocampus takes the insult of chronic stress seriously, incurring irreversible atrophy. Contrary to popular belief, these small, seemingly harmless stressors do not strengthen you; they can amputate part of your self." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Recall the confirmation fallacy: governments are great at telling you what they did, but not what they did not do. In fact, they engage in what could be labeled as phony "philanthropy," the activity of helping people in a visible and sensational way without taking into account the unseen cemetery of invisible consequences. Bastiat inspired libertarians by attacking the usual arguments that showed the benefits of governments. But his ideas can be generalized to apply to both the Right and the Left." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Social science means inventing a certain brand of human we can understand." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"If the professor is not capable of giving a class without preparation, don't attend. People should only teach what they have learned organically, through experience and curiosity…or get another job." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The fact that people in countries with cold weather tend to be harder working, richer, less relaxed, less amicable, less tolerant of idleness, more (over) organized and more harried than those in hotter climates should make us wonder whether wealth is mere indemnification, and motivation is just overcompensation for not having a real life." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"One single observation can invalidate a general statement derived from millennia of confirmatory sightings of millions of white swans. All you need is one single (and, I am told, quite ugly) black bird.*" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Now take a look at the cemetery. It is quite difficult to do so because people who fail do not seem to write memoirs, and, if they did, those business publishers I know would not even consider giving them the courtesy of a returned phone call (as to returned e-mail, fuhgedit). Readers would not pay $26.95 for a story of failure, even if you convinced them that it had more useful tricks than a story of success.* The entire notion of biography is grounded in the arbitrary ascription of a causal relation between specified traits and subsequent events. Now consider the cemetery. The graveyard of failed persons will be full of people who shared the following traits: courage, risk taking, optimism, et cetera. Just like the population of millionaires. There may be some differences in skills, but what truly separates the two is for the most part a single factor: luck. Plain luck." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Whenever you hear a snotty (and frustrated) European middlebrow presenting his stereotypes about Americans, he will often describe them as "uncultured," "unintellectual," and "poor in math" because, unlike his peers, Americans are not into equation drills and the constructions middlebrows call "high culture"—like knowledge of Goethe's inspirational (and central) trip to Italy, or familiarity with the Delft school of painting. Yet the person making these statements is likely to be addicted to his iPod, wear blue jeans, and use Microsoft Word to jot down his "cultural" statements on his PC, with some Google searches here and there interrupting his composition. Well, it so happens that America is currently far, far more creative than these nations of museumgoers and equation solvers. It is also far more tolerant of bottom-up tinkering and undirected trial and error. And globalization has allowed the United States to specialize in the creative aspect of things, the production of concepts and ideas, that is, the scalable part of the products, and, increasingly, by exporting jobs, separate the less scalable components and assign them to those happy to be paid by the hour. There" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"One conceivable way to discriminate between a scientific intellectual and a literary intellectual is by considering that a scientific intellectual can usually recognize the writing of another but that the literary intellectual would not be able to tell the difference between lines jotted down by a scientist and those by a glib nonscientist. This is even more apparent when the literary intellectual starts using scientific buzzwords, like "uncertainty principle," "Godel's theorem," "parallel universe," or "relativity," either out of context or, as often, in exact opposition to the scientific meaning. I suggest reading the hilarious Fashionable Nonsense by Alan Sokal for an illustration of such practice (I was laughing so loudly and so frequently while reading it on a plane that other passengers kept whispering things about me)." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Read books are far less valuable than unread ones." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We humans are not just a superficial race (this may be curable to some extent); we are a very unfair one." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"George Santayana: A man is morally free when … he judges the world, and judges other men, with uncompromising sincerity." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"companies trying to misrepresent the product they sell by playing with our cognitive biases, our unconscious associations, and that's sneaky. The latter is done by, say, showing a poetic picture of a sunset with a cowboy smoking and forcing an association between great romantic moments and some given product that, logically, has no possible connection to it. You seek a romantic moment and what you get is cancer." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"There are designations, like "economist," "prostitute," or "consultant," for which additional characterization doesn't add information." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Religion isn't so much about telling man that there is one God as about preventing man from thinking that he is God." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Few understand that procrastination is our natural defense, letting things take care of themselves" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I suspect that they put Socrates to death because there is something terribly unattractive, alienating, and nonhuman in thinking with too much clarity." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Criticism, for a book, is a truthful, unfaked badge of attention, signaling that it is not boring; and boring is the only very bad thing for a book. Consider the Ayn Rand phenomenon: her books Atlas Shrugged and The Fountainhead have been read for more than half a century by millions of people, in spite of, or most likely thanks to, brutally nasty reviews and attempts to discredit her. The first-order information is the intensity: what matters is the effort the critic puts into trying to prevent others from reading the book, or, more generally in life, it is the effort in badmouthing someone that matters, not so much what is said. So if you really want people to read a book, tell them it is "overrated," with a sense of outrage (and use the attribute "underrated" for the opposite effect)." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"For if you think that education causes wealth, rather than being a result of wealth, or that intelligent actions and discoveries are the result of intelligent ideas, you will be in for a surprise. Let us see what kind of surprise." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"This confirmation problem pervades our modern life, since most conflicts have at their root the following mental bias: when Arabs and Israelis watch news reports they see different stories in the same succession of events. Likewise, Democrats and Republicans look at different parts of the same data and never converge to the same opinions. Once your mind is inhabited with a certain view of the world, you will tend to only consider instances proving you to be right. Paradoxically, the more information you have, the more justified you will feel in your views." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"in Ovid, difficulty is what wakes up the genius (ingenium mala saepe movent)," -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It is just that narrative can be lethal when used in the wrong places." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We have managed to transfer religious belief into gullibility for whatever can masquerade as science." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"No, businessmen as risk takers are not subjected to the judgment of other businessmen, only to that of their personal accountant." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Mother Nature does not develop Alzheimer's—actually there is evidence that even humans would not easily lose brain function with age if they followed a regimen of stochastic exercise and stochastic fasting, took long walks, avoided sugar, bread, white rice, and stock market investments, and refrained from taking economics classes or reading such things as The New York Times." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I write only if I feel like it and only on a subject I feel like writing about—and the reader is no fool." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"our world is dominated by the extreme, the unknown, and the very improbable (improbable according our current knowledge)—and all the while we spend our time engaged in small talk, focusing on the known, and the repeated. This" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"If the student is smart, the teacher takes the credit." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A turkey is fed for a thousand days by a butcher; every day confirms to its staff of analysts that butchers love turkeys "with increased statistical confidence." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"And, talking about radiation, few wonder why, after hundreds of million of years of having our skins exposed to sun rays, we suddenly need so much protection from them—is it that our exposure is more harmful than before because of changes in the atmosphere, or populations living in an environment mismatching the pigmentation of their skin—or rather, that makers of sun protection products need to make some profits?" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Silver Rule in intellectual debates. You can criticize either what a person said or what a person meant. The former is more sensational, hence lends itself more readily to dissemination. The mark of a charlatan—say the writer and pseudo-rationalist Sam Harris—is to defend his position or attack a critic by focusing on some specific statement ("look at what he said") rather than blasting his exact position ("look at what he means" or, more broadly, "look at what he stands for")—for the latter requires an extensive grasp of the proposed idea. Note that the same applies to the interpretation of religious texts, often extracted from their broader circumstances." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Alas, one cannot assert authority by accepting one's own fallibility. Simply, people need to be blinded by knowledge-we are made to follow leaders who can gather people together because the advantages of being in groups trump the disadvantages of being alone. It has been more profitable for us to bind together in the wrong direction than to be alone in the right one. Those who have followed the assertive idiot rather than the introspective wise person have passed us some of their genes. This is apparent from a social pathology: psychopaths rally followers." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"First ethical rule: If you see fraud and do not say fraud, you are a fraud." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"This idea that in order to make a decision you need to focus on the consequences (which you can know) rather than the probability (which you can't know) is the central idea of uncertainty. Much" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"But things are even worse: in real life, every single bit of risk you take adds up to reduce your life expectancy. If you climb mountains and ride a motorcycle and hang around the mob and fly your own small plane and drink absinthe, and smoke cigarettes, and play parkour on Thursday night, your life expectancy is considerably reduced, although no single action will have a meaningful effect. This idea of repetition makes paranoia about some low-probability events, even that deemed "pathological," perfectly rational." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We see the obvious and visible consequences, not the invisible and less obvious ones. Yet those unseen consequences.., generally are more meaningful." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The difference between successful people and really successful people is that really successful people say no to almost everything" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The scientist's behavior while facing the refutation of his ideas has been studied in depth as part of the so-called attribution bias. You attribute your successes to skills, but your failures to randomness. This explains why these scientists attributed their failures to the "ten sigma" rare event, indicative of the thought that they were right but that luck played against them. Why? It is a human heuristic that makes us actually believe so in order not to kill our self-esteem and keep us going against adversity." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Perhaps the wise one is the one who knows that he cannot see things far away." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Popper introduced the mechanism of conjectures and refutations, which works as follows: you formulate a (bold) conjecture and you start looking for the observation that would prove you wrong." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I discovered that I had been intuitively using the less-is-more idea as an aid in decision making (contrary to the method of putting a series of pros and cons side by side on a computer screen). For instance, if you have more than one reason to do something (choose a doctor or veterinarian, hire a gardener or an employee, marry a person, go on a trip), just don't do it. It does not mean that one reason is better than two, just that by invoking more than one reason you are trying to convince yourself to do something. Obvious decisions (robust to error) require no more than a single reason. Likewise the French army had a heuristic to reject excuses for absenteeism for more than one reason, like death of grandmother, cold virus, and being bitten by a boar. If someone attacks a book or idea using more than one argument, you know it is not real: nobody says "he is a criminal, he killed many people, and he also has bad table manners and bad breath and is a very poor driver." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Every time you use a coffeemaker for your morning cappuccino, you are benefiting from the fragility of the coffeemaking entrepreneur who failed. He failed in order to help put the superior merchandise on your kitchen counter." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We laugh at others and we don't realize that someone will be just as justified in laughing at us on some not too remote day" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Black Swans and tail events run the socioeconomic world" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"In the old days, privilege came with obligations—except for the small class of intellectuals who served a patron or, in some cases, the state. You want to be a feudal lord—you will be first to die. You want war? First in battle. Let us not forget something embedded in the U.S. Constitution: the president is commander in chief. Caesar, Alexander, and Hannibal were on the battlefield—the last, according to Livy, was first-in, last-out of combat zones. George Washington, too, went to battle, unlike Ronald Reagan and George W. Bush, who played video games while threatening the lives of others." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A lesson I learned from this ancient culture is the notion of megalopsychon (a term expressed in Aristotle's ethics), a sense of grandeur that was superseded by the Christian value of "humility." There is no word for it in Romance languages; in Arabic it is called Shhm—best translated as nonsmall. If you take risks and face your fate with dignity, there is nothing you can do that makes you small; if you don't take risks, there is nothing you can do that makes you grand, nothing." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"In practice, randomness is fundamentally incomplete information." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"You don't become completely free just by avoiding to be a slave; you also need to avoid becoming a master." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Another way to view it: the iatrogenics is in the patient, not in the treatment. If the patient is close to death, all speculative treatments should be encouraged—no holds barred. Conversely, if the patient is near healthy, then Mother Nature should be the doctor." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"If your private life conflicts with your intellectual opinion, it cancels your intellectual ideas, not your private life." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The only valid political system is one that can handle an imbecile in power without suffering from it." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Finally, I reckon that I am not immune to such an emotional defect. But I deal with it by having no access to information, except in rare circumstances. Again, I prefer to read poetry. If an event is important enough, it will find its way to my ears. I will return to this point in time." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A mistake is not something to be determined after the fact, but in the light of the information until that point." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Consider a more extreme example than the casino experiment. Assume a collection of people play Russian roulette a single time for a million dollars—this is the central story in Fooled by Randomness. About five out of six will make money. If someone used a standard cost-benefit analysis, he would have claimed that one has an 83.33 percent chance of gains, for an "expected" average return per shot of $833,333. But if you keep playing Russian roulette, you will end up in the cemetery. Your expected return is … not computable." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"There is something like a switch in us that kills the individual in favor of the collective when people engage in communal dances, mass riots, or war. Your mood is now that of the herd. You are part of what Elias Canetti calls the rhythmic and throbbing crowd" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I know that history will be dominated by an improbable event, I just don't know what that event will be." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The weak shows his strength and hides his weaknesses; the magnificent exhibits his weaknesses like ornaments." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"we are not made to view things as independent from each other. When viewing two events A and B, it is hard not to assume that A causes B, B causes A, or both cause each other. Our bias is immediately to establish a causal link." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Try the following experiment. Go to the airport and ask travelers en route to some remote destination how much they would pay for an insurance policy paying, say, a million tugrits (the currency of Mongolia) if they died during the trip (for any reason).Then ask another collection of travelers how much they would pay for insurance that pays the same in the event of death from a terrorist act (and only a terrorist act). Guess which one would command a higher price? Odds are that people would rather pay for the second policy (although the former includes death from terrorism). The psychologists Daniel Kahneman and Amos Tversky figured this out several decades ago." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"إن التصنيف حاجة ضرورية بالنسبة للبشر ، لكنه يصبح حالة مرَضية عندما يجري النظر إلى الفئة المصنفة نظرة تقريرية قاطعة ، الأمر الذي يمنع الناس من التفكير في ضبابية الحدود الموضوعة بين الناس والمجتمعات ، خلا عن إعادة النظر في تقسيم الناس إلى فئات" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Marketing is bad manners—and I rely on my naturalistic and ecological instincts. Say you run into a person during a boat cruise. What would you do if he started boasting of his accomplishments, telling you how great, rich, tall, impressive, skilled, famous, muscular, well educated, efficient, and good in bed he is, plus other attributes? You would certainly run away (or put him in contact with another talkative bore to get rid of both of them). It is clearly much better if others (preferably someone other than his mother) are the ones saying good things about him, and it would be nice if he acted with some personal humility." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Beware the confusion between correctness and intelligibility. Part of conventional wisdom favors things that can be explained rather instantly and "in a nutshell"—in many circles it is considered law. Having attended a French elementary school, a lycée primaire, I was trained to rehash Boileau's adage: Ce qui se conçoit bien s'énonce clairement Et les mots pour le dire viennent aisément What is easy to conceive is clear to express / Words to say it would come effortlessly." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"we can control a function of x, f(x), even if x remains vastly beyond our understanding." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A good book gets better on the second reading. A great book on the third. Any book not worth rereading isn't worth reading." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The IYI subscribes to The New Yorker, a journal designed so philistines can learn to fake a conversation about evolution, neurosomething, cognitive biases, and quantum mechanics." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Veteran trader Marty O'Connell calls this the firehouse effect. He had observed that firemen with much downtime who talk to each other for too long come to agree on many things that an outside, impartial observer would find ludicrous (they develop political ideas that are very similar). Psychologists give it a fancier name, but my friend Marty has no training in behavioral sciences." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The engineer and historian of engineering Henry Petroski presents a very elegant point. Had the Titanic not had that famous accident, as fatal as it was, we would have kept building larger and larger ocean liners and the next disaster would have been even more tragic. So the people who perished were sacrificed for the greater good; they unarguably saved more lives than were lost. The story of the Titanic illustrates the difference between gains for the system and harm to some of its individual parts." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"To be completely cured of newspapers, spend a year reading the previous week's newspapers." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"An idea starts to be interesting when you get scared of taking it to its logical conclusion." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Modernity's double punishment is to make us both age prematurely and live longer." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The fastest way to become rich is to socialize with the poor; the fastest way to become poor is to socialize with the rich." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Breaking a fast feels like the exact opposite of a hangover." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Journalists are currently in the most insecure profession you can find: the majority live hand to mouth, and ostracism by their friends would be terminal. Thus they become easily prone to manipulation by lobbyists, as we saw with GMOs, the Syrian wars, etc. You say something unpopular in that profession about Brexit, GMOs, or Putin, and you become history. This is the opposite of business where me-tooism is penalized." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"There is a Yiddish saying: "If I am going to be forced to eat pork, it better be of the best kind." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"He who has never sinned is less reliable than he who has only sinned once. And someone who has made plenty of errors—though never the same error more than once—is more reliable than someone who has never made any." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Most so-called writers keep writing and writing with the hope to, some day, find something to say." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Corporations are in love with the idea of the strategic plan. They need to pay to figure out where they are going. Yet there is no evidence that strategic planning works—we even seem to have evidence against it. A management scholar, William Starbuck, has published a few papers debunking the effectiveness of planning—it makes the corporation option-blind, as it gets locked into a non-opportunistic course of action." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"People often need to suspend their self-promotion, and have someone in their lives they do not need to impress. This explains dog ownership." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Heuristics are simplified rules of thumb that make things simple and easy to implement. But their main advantage is that the user knows that they are not perfect, just expedient, and is therefore less fooled by their powers. They become dangerous when we forget that." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"True humility is when you can surprise yourself more than others; the rest is either shyness or good marketing." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"What matters isn't what a person has or doesn't have; it is what he or she is afraid of losing." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"In his Treatise on Human Nature, the Scots philosopher David Hume posed the issue in the following way (as rephrased in the now famous black swan problem by John Stuart Mill): No amount of observations of white swans can allow the inference that all swans are white, but the observation of a single black swan is sufficient to refute that conclusion." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"we have evidence that collectively society doesn't advance with organized education, rather the reverse: the level of (formal) education in a country is the result of wealth." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Note that I am not relying in this book on the beastly method of collecting selective corroborating evidence. ...I call this overload of examples naïve empiricism--successions of anecdotes selected to fit a story do not constitute evidence. Anyone looking for confirmation will find enough of it to deceive himself--and no doubt his peers.* The Black Swan idea is based on the structure of randomness in empirical reality.*It is also naïve empiricism to provide, in support of some argument, series of eloquent confirmatory quotes by dead authorities. By searching, you can always find someone who made a well-sounding statement that confirms your point of view--and, on every topic, it is possible to find another dead thinker who said the exact opposite. Almost all my non Yogi Berra quotes are from people I disagree with." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Learning is rooted in repetition and convexity, meaning that the reading of a single text twice is more profitable than reading two different things once." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"As Ennius wrote, "The good is mostly in the absence of bad"; Nimium boni est, cui nihil est mali." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It is much easier to sell "Look what I did for you" than "Look what I avoided for you." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The process of discovery (or innovation, or technological progress) itself depends on antifragile tinkering, aggressive risk bearing rather than formal education." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Nation-states like war; city-states like commerce; families like stability; and individuals like entertainment," -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I noticed that very intelligent and informed persons were at no advantage over cabdrivers in their predictions, but there was a crucial difference. Cabdrivers did not believe that they understood as much as learned people - really, they were not the experts and they knew it. Nobody knew anything, but elite thinkers thought that they knew more than the rest because they were elite thinkers, and if you're a member of the elite, you automatically know more than the nonelite." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I discovered that it is much more effective to act like a nice guy and be reasonable if you prove willing to go beyond just verbiage. You can afford to be compassionate, lax, and courteous if, once in a while, when it is least expected of you, but completely justified, you sue someone, or savage an enemy, just to show that you can walk the walk." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Adam Smith himself made the analogy of the economy as a watch or a clock that once set in motion continues on its own." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Further, my characterization of a loser is someone who, after making a mistake, doesn't introspect, doesn't exploit it, feels embarrassed and defensive rather than enriched with a new piece of information, and tries to explain why he made the mistake rather than moving on. These types often consider themselves the "victims" of some large plot, a bad boss, or bad weather." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Authors, artists, and even philosophers are much better off having a very small number of fanatics behind them than a large number of people who appreciate their work. The number of persons who dislike the work don't count—there is no such thing as the opposite of buying your book, or the equivalent of losing points in a soccer game, and this absence of negative domain for book sales provides the author with a measure of optionality." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"In general, positive Black Swans take time to show their effect while negative ones happen very quickly—it is much easier and much faster to destroy than to build. (During" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Robust is when you care more about the few who like your work than the multitude who dislike it (artists); fragile when you care more about the few who dislike your work than the multitude who like it (politicians)." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"So let us call here the teleological fallacy the illusion that you know exactly where you are going, and that you knew exactly where you were going in the past, and that others have succeeded in the past by knowing where they were going." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"You can tell how poor someone feels by the number of times he references "money" in his conversation." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"An honest person will never commit criminal acts, but a criminal will readily engage in legal acts." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Education is an institution that has been growing without external stressors; eventually the thing will collapse." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Further, skin in the game creates diversity, not monoculture. Economic insecurity worsens the condition. Journalists are currently in the most insecure profession you can find: the majority live hand to mouth, and ostracism by their friends would be terminal. Thus they become easily prone to manipulation by lobbyists, as we saw with GMOs, the Syrian wars, etc. You say something unpopular in that profession about Brexit, GMOs, or Putin, and you become history. This is the opposite of business where me-tooism is penalized." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"If you need to listen to music while walking, don't walk; and please don't listen to music." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Give me a few lines written by any man and I will find enough to get him hung" goes the saying attributed to Richelieu, Voltaire, Talleyrand (a vicious censor during the French revolution phase of terror), and a few others." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Michelangelo was asked by the pope about the secret of his genius, particularly how he carved the statue of David, largely considered the masterpiece of all masterpieces. His answer was: "It's simple. I just remove everything that is not David." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A BS DETECTION HEURISTIC The heuristic here would be to use education in reverse: hire, conditional on an equal set of skills, the person with the least label-oriented education. It means that the person had to succeed in spite of the credentialization of his competitors and overcome more serious hurdles. In addition, people who didn't go to Harvard are easier to deal with in real life." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I repeat that we are explanation-seeking animals who tend to think that everything has an identifiable cause and grab the most apparent one as the explanation. Yet there may not be a visible because; to the contrary, frequently there is nothing, no even a spectrum of possible explanations." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The antifragile loves randomness and uncertainty, which also means—crucially—a love of errors, a certain class of errors. Antifragility has a singular property of allowing us to deal with the unknown, to do things without understanding them—and do them well. Let me be more aggressive: we are largely better at doing than we are at thinking, thanks to antifragility. I'd rather be dumb and antifragile than extremely smart and fragile, any time." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Luck favors the prepared," Pasteur said," -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Modernity starts with the state monopoly on violence, and ends with the state's monopoly on fiscal irresponsibility." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Hard science gives sensational results with a horribly boring process; philosophy gives boring results with a sensational process; literature gives sensational results with a sensational process; and economics gives boring results with a boring process." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"My principle activity is to tease those who take themselves and the quality of their knowledge too seriously." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The characteristic feature of the loser is to bemoan, in general terms, mankind's flaws, biases, contradictions, and irrationality—without exploiting them for fun and profit." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"So the modern world may be increasing in technological knowledge, but, paradoxically, it is making things a lot more unpredictable." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"good news is good news first; how good matters rather little. So to have a pleasant life you should spread these small "affects" across time as evenly as possible. Plenty of mildly good news is preferable to one single lump of great news." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Someone who has been employed for a while is giving you strong evidence of submission." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I once procrastinated and kept delaying a spinal cord operation as a response to a back injury—and was completely cured of the back problem after a hiking vacation in the Alps, followed by weight-lifting sessions. These psychologists and economists want me to kill my naturalistic instinct (the inner b****t detector) that allowed me to delay the elective operation and minimize the risks—an insult to the antifragility of our bodies." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The fool generalizes the particular; the nerd particularizes the general; some do both; and the wise does neither." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Humans somehow fail to recognize situations outside the contexts in which they usually learn about them." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Our emotional apparatus is designed for linear causality. For instance, you study every day and learn something in proportion to your studies. If you do not feel that you are going anywhere, your emotions will cause you to become demoralized." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Governments are wasting billions of dollars on attempting to predict events that are produced by interdependent systems and are therefore not statistically understandable at the individual level." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"One of the most irritating conversations I've had is with people who lecture me on how I should behave. Most of us know pretty much how we should behave. It is the execution that is the problem, not the absence of knowledge. I am tired of the moralizing slow-thinkers who pound me with platitudes like I should floss daily, eat my regular apple, and visit the gym outside of the New Year's resolution. In the markets the recommendation would be to ignore the noise component in the performance. We need tricks to get us there but before that we need to accept the fact that we are mere animals in need of lower forms of tricks, not lectures." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We can get closer to the truth by negative instances, not by verification! It" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"But the worst touristification is the life we moderns have to lead in captivity, during our leisure hours: Friday night opera, scheduled parties, scheduled laughs. Again, golden jail. This goal-driven attitude hurts deeply inside my existential self." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Mistaking a naive observation of the past as something definitive or representative of the future is the one and only cause of our inability to understand the Black Swan." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"understanding how to act under conditions of incomplete information is the highest and most urgent human pursuit." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The Nation-state: apartheid without political incorrectness." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"One general, Fabius Maximus was nicknamed Cunctator, "the Procrastinator." He drove Hannibal, who had an obvious military superiority, crazy by avoiding and delaying engagement." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"There is something nonphilosophical about investing one's pride and ego into a "my house/ library/ car is bigger than that of others in my category"—it is downright foolish to claim to be first in one's category all the while sitting on a time bomb." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It is also related to a problem called denigration of history, as gamblers, investors, and decision-makers feel that the sorts of things that happen to others would not necessarily happen to them." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Technology can degrade (and endanger) every aspect of a sucker's life while convincing him that it is becoming more "efficient." - The difference between technology and slavery is that slaves are fully aware that they are not free. - You have a real life if and only if you do not compete with anyone in any of your pursuits. - With terminal disease, nature lets you die with abbreviated suffering; medicine lets you suffer with prolonged dying. -" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We practitioners and quants aren't too fazed by remarks on the part of academics—it would be like prostitutes listening to technical commentary by nuns." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"While in the past people of rank or status were those and only those who took risks, who had the downside for their actions, and heroes were those who did so for the sake of others, today the exact reverse is taking place. We are witnessing the rise of a new class of inverse heroes, that is, bureaucrats, bankers, Davos-attending members of the I.A.N.D. (International Association of Name Droppers), and academics with too much power and no real downside and/or accountability. They game the system while citizens pay the price." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The only way we have left to control suicide-terrorists would be precisely to convince them that blowing themselves up is not the worst-case scenario for them, nor the end scenario at all. Making their families and loved ones bear a financial burden—just as Germans still pay for war crimes—would immediately add consequences to their actions. The penalty needs to be properly calibrated to be a true disincentive, without imparting any sense of heroism or martyrdom to the families in question." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I attended a symposium, an event named after a fifth century (B.C.) Athenian drinking party in which nonnerds talked about love; alas, there was no drinking, and mercifully, nobody talked about love." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"If you do not take risks for your opinion, you're nothing." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Learn to read history, get all the knowledge you can, do not frown on the anecdote, but do not draw any causal links, do not try to reverse engineer too much -- but if you do, do not make big scientific claims." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Humans will believe anything you say provided you do not exhibit the smallest shadow of diffidence; like animals, they can detect the smallest crack in your confidence before you express it. The trick is to be as smooth as possible in personal manners." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It was a different feeling: it is hard to focus on a conversation, especially when it is mathematical, when you have just personally earned several hundreds of times the annual salary of the researcher trying to tell you that you are wrong, by betting against his representation of the world." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"the cycles of risk taking in the economy as following a pattern: stability and absence of crises encourage risk taking, complacency, and lowered awareness of the possibility of problems. Then" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Further, being fooled by randomness is that in most circumstances fraught with a high degree of randomness, one cannot really tell if a successful person has skills, or if a person with skills will succeed—but we can pretty much predict the negative, that a person totally devoid of skills will eventually fail." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Now, in addition to these traits, he defaults to thinking that what he doesn't see is not there, or what he does not understand does not exist. At the core, he tends to mistake the unknown for the nonexistent." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"As a member of the Christian minority in the Near East, I can vouch that commerce, particularly small commerce, is the door to tolerance—the only door, in my opinion, to any form of tolerance. It beats rationalizations and lectures. Like antifragile tinkering, mistakes are small and rapidly forgotten. I want to be happy to be human and be in an environment in which other people are in love with their fate—and never, until my brush with academia, did I think that that environment was a certain form of commerce (combined with solitary scholarship). The biologist-writer and libertarian economist Matt Ridley made me feel that it was truly the Phoenician trader in me (or, more exactly, the Canaanite) that was the intellectual.4" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Our propensity to impose meaning and concepts blocks our awareness of the details making up the concept. However," -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"somehow it is only when you don't care about your reputation that you tend to have a good one." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A man is honorable in proportion to the personal risks he takes for his opinion—in" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We do not realize the full extent of the difference between near and far futures. Yet" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Further, in countries where wealth comes from rent-seeking, political patronage, or regulatory capture (which, I remind the reader, is how the powerful and the insiders use regulation to scam the public, or red tape to slow down competition), wealth is seen as zero-sum.*2" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The market is like a large movie theater with a small door." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Anything one needs to market heavily is necessarily either an inferior product or an evil one. And it is highly unethical to portray something in a more favorable light than it actually is." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We can discuss this point from different angles. Experts call one manifestation of such denigration of history historical determinism. In a nutshell we think that we would know when history is made; we believe that people who, say, witnessed the stock market crash of 1929 knew then that they lived an acute historical event and that, should these events repeat themselves, they too would know about such facts. Life for us is made to resemble an adventure movie, as we know ahead of time that something big is about to happen. It is hard to imagine that people who witnessed history did not know at the time how important the moment was. Somehow all respect we may have for history does not translate well into our treatment of the present." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Things are always obvious after the fact. The civil servant was a very intelligent person, and this mistake is much more prevalent than one would think. It has to do with the way our mind handles historical information." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The Pyrrhonian skeptics were docile citizens who followed customs and traditions whenever possible, but taught themselves to systematically doubt everything, and thus attain a level of serenity. But while conservative in their habits, they were rabid in their fight against dogma." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"In poor countries, officials receive explicit bribes; in D.C. they get the sophisticated implicit, unspoken promise to work for large corporations." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Most people fear being without audiovisual stimulation because they are too repetitive when they think and imagine things on their own." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A theory is like medicine or government: often useless, sometimes necessary, always self-serving and, on occasion, lethal. It needs to be used with care, moderation and close adult supervision." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Imagine going to Mexico with a notebook and trying to figure out the average wealth of the population from talking to people you randomly encounter. Odds are that, without Carlos Slim in your sample, you have little information. For out of the hundred or so million Mexicans, Slim would (I estimate) be richer than the bottom seventy to ninety million all taken together. So you may sample fifty million persons and unless you include that "rare event," you may have nothing in your sample and underestimate the total wealth." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We are social animals; hell is other people." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The very idea of exercise is to gain from antifragility to workout stressors—as we saw, all kinds of exercise are just exploitations of convexity effects." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"For an idea to have survived so long across so many cycles is indicative of its relative fitness. Noise, at least some noise, was filtered out. Mathematically, progress means that some new information is better than past information, not that the average of new information will supplant past information, which means that it is optimal for someone, when in doubt, to systematically reject the new idea, information, or method. Clearly and shockingly, always. Why?" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"at any point in time, the richest traders are often the worst traders. This, I will call the cross-sectional problem: At a given time in the market, the most successful traders are likely to be those that are best fit to the latest cycle. This does not happen too often with dentists or pianists—because these professions are more immune to randomness." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The problem is that we humans are prone to the availability heuristic, by which the salient is mistaken for the statistical, and the conspicuous and emotional effect of an event makes us think it is occurring more regularly than in reality. This helps us to be prudent and careful in daily life, forcing us to add an extra layer of protection, but" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The story of the wheel also illustrates the point of this chapter: both governments and universities have done very, very little for innovation and discovery, precisely because, in addition to their blinding rationalism, they look for the complicated, the lurid, the newsworthy, the narrated, the scientistic, and the grandiose, rarely for the wheel on the suitcase. Simplicity, I realized, does not lead to laurels." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"You are rich if and only if money you refuse tastes better than money you accept." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Statin drugs are meant to lower cholesterol in your blood. But there is an asymmetry, and a severe one. One needs to treat fifty high risk persons for five years to avoid a single cardiovascular event. Statins can potentially harm people who are not very sick, for whom the benefits are either minimal or totally nonexistent." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"While we know that history flows forward, it is difficult to realize that we envision it backward. Why is it so?" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I had a strong bias in favor of Russian scientists; many can be put to active use as chess coaches (I also got a piano teacher out of the process). In addition, they are extremely helpful in the interview process. When MBAs apply for trading positions, they frequently boast "advanced" chess skills on their résumés. I recall the MBA career counselor at Wharton recommending our advertising chess skills "because it sounds intelligent and strategic." MBAs, typically, can interpret their superficial knowledge of the rules of the game into "expertise." We used to verify the accuracy of claims of chess expertise (and the character of the applicant) by pulling a chess set out of a drawer and telling the student, now turning pale: "Yuri will have a word with you." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"When you are employed, hence dependent on other people's judgment, looking busy can help you claim responsibility for the results in a random environment. The appearance of busyness reinforces the perception of causality, of the link between results and one's role in them." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Writers are remembered for their best work, politicians for their worst mistakes, and businessmen are almost never remembered." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"ignoramus et ignorabimus—we are ignorant and will remain so. Somehow" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"complex systems do not have obvious one-dimensional cause-and-effect mechanisms, and that under opacity, you do not mess with such a system." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"What they call philosophy I call literature; what they call literature I call journalism; what they call journalism I call gossip; and what they call gossip I call (generously) voyeurism." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"we discussed this dire problem with education and illusions of academic contribution, with Ivy League universities becoming in the eyes of the new Asian and U.S. upper class a status luxury good. Harvard is like a Vuitton bag or a Cartier watch. It is a huge drag on the middle-class parents who have been plowing an increased share of their savings into these institutions, transferring their money to administrators, real estate developers, professors, and other agents. In the United States, we have a buildup of student loans that automatically transfer to these rent extractors. In a way it is no different from racketeering: one needs a decent university "name" to get ahead in life; but we know that collectively society doesn't appear to advance with organized education." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Systems learn by removing parts, via negativa.*4" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The story of the "exquisite cadavers" is as follows. In the aftermath of the First World War, a collection of surrealist poets—which included André Breton, their pope, Paul Eluard, and others—got together in cafés and tried the following exercise (modern literary critics attribute the exercise to the depressed mood after the war and the need to escape reality). On a folded piece of paper, in turn, each one of them would write a predetermined part of a sentence, not knowing the others' choice. The first would pick an adjective, the second a noun, the third a verb, the fourth an adjective, and the fifth a noun. The first publicized exercise of such random (and collective) arrangement produced the following poetic sentence: The exquisite cadavers shall drink the new wine. (Les cadavres exquis boiront le vin nouveau.) Impressive? It sounds even more poetic in the native French. Quite impressive poetry has been produced in such a manner, sometimes with the aid of a computer. But poetry has never been truly taken seriously outside of the beauty of its associations, whether they have been produced by the random ranting of one or more disorganized brains, or the more elaborate constructions of one conscious creator." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The degeneration of philosophical schools in its turn is the consequence of the mistaken belief that one can philosophize without having been compelled to philosophize by problems outside philosophy. … Genuine philosophical problems are always rooted outside philosophy and they die if these roots decay. … [emphasis mine] These roots are easily forgotten by philosophers who "study" philosophy instead of being forced into philosophy by the pressure of nonphilosophical problems." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"To become a successful philosopher king, it is much better to start as a king than as a philosopher," -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"If you hear a "prominent" economist using the word equilibrium, or normal distribution, do not argue with him; just ignore him, or try to put a rat down his shirt." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Do not pay attention to what people say, only to what they do, and how much of their necks they are putting on the line." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Veteran trader Marty O'Connell calls this the firehouse effect. He had observed that firemen with much downtime who talk to each other for too long come to agree on many things that an outside, impartial observer would find ludicrous (they" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"This is hard to accept in the age of the Internet. It has been very hard for me to explain that the more data you get, the less you know what's going on, and the more iatrogenics you will cause. People are still under the illusion that "science" means more data." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"There is a Yiddish saying: "If I am going to be forced to eat pork, it better be of the best kind." If I am going to be fooled by randomness, it better be of the beautiful (and harmless) kind." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Never ask the doctor what you should do. Ask him what he would do if he were in your place. You would be surprised at the difference." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We do not spontaneously learn that we don't learn that we don't learn. The problem lies in the structure of our minds: we don't learn rules, just facts, and only facts. Metarules (such as the rule that we have a tendency to not learn rules) we don't seem to be good at getting. We scorn the abstract; we scorn it with passion." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Let us call Mithridatization the result of an exposure to a small dose of a substance that, over time, makes one immune to additional, larger quantities of it. It is the sort of approach used in vaccination and allergy medicine. It is not quite antifragility, still at the more modest level of robustness, but we are on our way. And we already have a hint that perhaps being deprived of poison makes us fragile and that the road to robustification starts with a modicum of harm." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"This is one of the many reasons that journalism may be the greatest plague we face today—as the world becomes more and more complicated and our minds are trained for more and more simplification." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It was confidently believed that the scientific successes of the industrial revolution could be carried through into the social sciences, particularly with such movements as Marxism. Pseudoscience came with a collection of idealistic nerds who tried to create a tailor-made society, the epitome of which is the central planner. Economics was the most likely candidate for such use of science; you can disguise charlatanism under the weight of equations, and nobody can catch you since there is no such thing as a controlled experiment." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"But the larger point is that we can now see that depriving systems of stressors, vital stressors, is not necessarily a good thing, and can be downright harmful." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It is generally accepted that harm from doctors—not including risks from hospital germs—accounts for more deaths than any single cancer." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"wealth does not count so much into one's well-being as the route one uses to get to it." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I then completely gave up reading newspapers and watching television, which freed up a considerable amount of time (say one hour or more a day, enough time to read more than a hundred additional books per year, which, after a couple of decades, starts mounting)." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I believe that forcing researchers to eat their own cooking whenever possible solves a serious problem in science." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Think of the following event: A collection of hieratic persons (from Harvard or some such place) lecture birds on how to fly. Imagine bald males in their sixties, dressed in black robes, officiating in a form of English that is full of jargon, with equations here and there for good measure. The bird flies. Wonderful confirmation! They rush to the department of ornithology to write books, articles, and reports stating that the bird has obeyed them, an impeccable causal inference. The Harvard Department of Ornithology is now indispensable for bird flying. It will get government research funds for its contribution." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"(I've had a hard time conveying to intellectuals the intellectual superiority of practice.)" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"As I got her to explain to other people her evidence about the lack of effectiveness of funding formal education, one person got frustrated with our skepticism. Wolf's answer to him was "real education is this," pointing at the room full of people chatting. Accordingly, I am not saying that knowledge is not important; the skepticism in this discussion applies to the brand of commoditized, prepackaged, and pink-coated knowledge, stuff one can buy in the open market and use for self-promotion." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"He defaults to thinking that what he doesn't see is not there, or what he does not understand does not exist. At the core, he tends to mistake the unknown for the nonexistent." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"the more interesting their conversation, the more cultured they are, the more they will be trapped into thinking that they are effective at what they are doing in real business (something psychologists call the halo effect, the mistake of thinking that skills in, say, skiing translate unfailingly into skills in managing a pottery workshop or a bank department, or that a good chess player would be a good strategist in real life)." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The first leg of the triplet is the pathology of thinking that the world in which we live is more understandable, more explainable, and therefore more predictable than it actually is." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Freedom is always associated with risk taking, whether it leads to it or comes from it." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"You will get the most attention from those who hate you. No friend, no admirer, and no partner will flatter you with as much curiosity" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Consider the tourist brochures used by countries to advertise their wares: you can expect that the pictures presented to you will look much, much better than anything you will encounter in the place. And the bias, the difference (for which humans correct, thanks to common sense), can be measured as the country shown in the tourist brochure minus the country seen with your naked eyes. That difference can be small, or large. We also make such corrections with commercial products, not overly trusting advertising. But we don't correct for the difference in science, medicine, and mathematics, for the same reasons we didn't pay attention to iatrogenics. We are suckers for the sophisticated." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"But we don't correct for the difference in science, medicine, and mathematics, for the same reasons we didn't pay attention to iatrogenics. We are suckers for the sophisticated. In institutional research, one can selectively report facts that confirm one's story, without revealing facts that disprove it or don't apply to it—so the public perception of science is biased into believing in the necessity of the highly conceptualized, crisp, and purified Harvardized methods. And statistical research tends to be marred with this one-sidedness. Another reason one should trust the disconfirmatory more than the confirmatory." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Life is sacrifice and risk taking, and nothing that doesn't entail some moderate amount of the former, under the constraint of satisfying the latter, is close to what we can call life. If you do not undertake a risk of real harm, reparable or even potentially irreparable, from an adventure, it is not an adventure." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"we tend to think that innovation comes from bureaucratic funding, through planning, or by putting people through a Harvard Business School class by one Highly Decorated Professor of Innovation and Entrepreneurship (who never innovated anything) or hiring a consultant (who never innovated anything). This is a fallacy—note for now the disproportionate contribution of uneducated technicians and entrepreneurs to various technological leaps, from the Industrial Revolution to the emergence of Silicon Valley, and you will see what I mean." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Never hire an academic unless his function is to partake of the rituals of writing papers or taking exams." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Of course chance favors the prepared! Hard work, showing up on time, wearing a clean (preferably white) shirt, using deodorant, and some such conventional things contribute to success—they are certainly necessary but may be insufficient as they do not cause success." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Montaigne also detected the agency problem, or why the last thing a doctor needs is for you to be healthy: "No doctor derives pleasure from the health of his friends, wrote the ancient Greek satirist, no soldier from the peace of his city, etc." (Nul médecin ne prent plaisir à la santé de ses amis mesmes, dit l'ancien Comique Grec, ny soldat à la paix de sa ville: ainsi du reste.)" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"one cannot judge a performance in any given field (war, politics, medicine, investments) by the results, but by the costs of the alternative (i.e., if history played out in a different way)." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Until recent history, the central state represented about 5 percent of the economy....and further, governments were sufficiently distracted by war to leave economic affairs to businessmen.The contagious creation of nation-states in the late nineteenth century led to what we saw with the two world wars and their sequels." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Procrustes, in Greek mythology, was the cruel owner of a small estate in Corydalus in Attica, on the way between Athens and Eleusis, where the mystery rites were performed. Procrustes had a peculiar sense of hospitality: he abducted travelers, provided them with a generous dinner, then invited them to spend the night in a rather special bed. He wanted the bed to fit the traveler to perfection. Those who were too tall had their legs chopped off with a sharp hatchet; those who were too short were stretched (his name was said to be Damastes, or Polyphemon, but he was nicknamed Procrustes, which meant "the stretcher")." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Being self-owned is a state of mind." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Wind extinguishes a candle and energizes fire. Likewise with randomness, uncertainty, chaos: you want to use them, not hide from them. You want to be the fire and wish for the wind. This summarizes this author's nonmeek attitude to randomness and uncertainty." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"But fragility and antifragility are part of the current property of an object, a coffee table, a company, an industry, a country, a political system. We can detect fragility, see it, even in many cases measure it, or at least measure comparative fragility with a small error while comparisons of risk have been (so far) unreliable." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A complex system, contrary to what people believe, does not require complicated systems and regulations and intricate policies. The simpler, the better. Complications lead to multiplicative chains of unanticipated effects. Because of opacity, an intervention leads to unforeseen consequences, followed by apologies about the "unforeseen" aspect of the consequences, then to another intervention to correct the secondary effects, leading to an explosive series of branching "unforeseen" responses, each one worse than the preceding one. Yet simplicity has been difficult to implement in modern life because it is against the spirit of a certain brand of people who seek sophistication so they can justify their profession." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Injecting some confusion stabilizes the system. Indeed, confusing people a little bit is beneficial—it is good for you and good for them. For an application of the point in daily life, imagine someone extremely punctual and predictable who comes home at exactly six o'clock every day for fifteen years. You can use his arrival to set your watch. The fellow will cause his family anxiety if he is barely a few minutes late. Someone with a slightly more volatile—hence unpredictable—schedule, with, say, a half-hour variation, won't do so." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"One Thousand And One Days, or How Not to Be a Sucker" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"But bankers used to be subjected to Hammurabi's rule. The tradition in Catalonia was to behead bankers in front of their own banks" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"members of the Athenian assemblies were chosen by lot, a method meant to protect the system from degeneracy. Luckily, this effect has been investigated with modern political systems. In a computer simulation, Alessandro Pluchino and his colleagues showed how adding a certain number of randomly selected politicians to the process can improve the functioning of the parliamentary system." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"our representation of the standard criminal might be based on the properties of those less intelligent ones who were caught." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Categorizing is necessary for humans, but it becomes pathological when the category is seen as definitive, preventing people from considering the fuzziness of boundaries, let alone revising their categories." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A central argument is never a summary. It is more like a generator." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Had Prozac been available last century, Baudelaire's "spleen," Edgar Allan Poe's moods, the poetry of Sylvia Plath, the lamentations of so many other poets, everything with a soul would have been silenced. …" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We are faulty and there is no need to bother trying to correct our flaws. We are so defective and so mismatched to our environment that we can just work around these flaws. I" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"For The curse of modernity is that we are increasingly populated by a class of people who are better at explaining than understanding, or better at explaining than doing." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"don't understand?" is, simply, work on the undesirable states of f(x). It is often easier to modify f(x) than to get better knowledge of x. (In other words, robustification rather than forecasting Black Swans.) Example: If I buy an insurance on" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Metric-lowering drugs are particularly vicious because of a legal complexity. The doctor has the incentive to prescribe it because should the patient have a heart attack, he would be sued for negligence; but the error in the opposite direction is not penalized at all, as side effects do not appear at all as being caused by the medicine." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Don't talk about "progress" in terms of longevity, safety, or comfort before comparing zoo animals to those in the wilderness." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We can simplify the relationships between fragility, errors, and antifragility as follows. When you are fragile, you depend on things following the exact planned course, with as little deviation as possible—for deviations are more harmful than helpful. This is why the fragile needs to be very predictive in its approach, and, conversely, predictive systems cause fragility. When you want deviations, and you don't care about the possible dispersion of outcomes that the future can bring, since most will be helpful, you are antifragile." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"If your private actions do not generalize, then you cannot have general ideas." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Almost all those caught making a logical fallacy interpret it as a "disagreement." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"People feel deep anxiety finding out that someone they thought was stupid is actually more intelligent than they are." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The first heuristic addresses the asymmetry in rewards and punishment, or transfer of fragility between individuals. Ralph Nader has a simple rule: people voting for war need to have at least one descendant (child or grandchild) exposed to combat. For the Romans, engineers needed to spend some time under the bridge they built—something that should be required of financial engineers today. The English went further and had the families of the engineers spend time with them under the bridge after it was built." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"An observation that people who live permanently in an adoptive country tend to progressively generalize the bad and particularize the good, that is, attribute the bad traits in people they encounter to the national trait of the natives, and the good things to the individual.This holds equally well for French people living in the U.S. as it does for Americans living in France." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The quality of a decision cannot be solely judged based on its outcome." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The main idea behind complex systems is that the ensemble behaves in ways not predicted by its components." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The Golden Rule wants you to Treat others the way you would like them to treat you. The more robust Silver Rule says Do not treat others the way you would not like them to treat you." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"In the complex world, the notion of "cause" itself is suspect; it is either nearly impossible to detect or not really defined—another reason to ignore newspapers, with their constant supply of causes for things." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The classical man's worst fear was inglorious death; the modern man's worst fear is just death." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Stoicism, seen this way, becomes pure robustness—for the attainment of a state of immunity from one's external circumstances, good or bad, and an absence of fragility to decisions made by fate, is robustness. Random events won't affect us either way (we are too strong to lose, and not greedy to enjoy the upside), so we stay in the middle column of the Triad." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"If you want to accelerate someone's death, give him a personal doctor. I don't mean provide him with a bad doctor: just pay for him to choose his own. Any doctor will do. This may be the only possible way to murder someone while staying squarely within the law. We can see from the tonsillectomy story that access to data increases intervention, causing us to behave like the neurotic fellow." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"higher concentration of dopamine appears to lower skepticism and result in greater vulnerability to pattern detection; an" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"If my brain can ttell the difference between noise and signal, my heart cannot." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Let me warn against misinterpreting the message here. The argument is not against the notion of intervention; in fact I showed above that I am equally worried about underintervention when it is truly necessary. I am just warning against naive intervention and lack of awareness and acceptance of harm done by it." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Yet they believe blindly in the stock market, and in the abilities of their pension plan manager. Why do they do so? Because they accept that this is what people should do with their savings, because experts tell them so. The doubt their own sense, but not for a second do they doubt their automatic purchases in the stock market." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Bir treni kaçırmak ancak peşinden koşarsanız acı verici olur." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It takes a huge investment in introspection to learn that the thirty or more hours spent "studying" the news last month neither had any predictive ability during your activities of that month nor did it impact your current knowledge of the world." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I have the fondest memories of time spent in places called ugly, the most boring ones of places called scenic." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"bounded rationality: we cannot possibly measure and assess everything as if we were a computer; we therefore produce, under evolutionary pressures, some shortcuts and distortions. Our knowledge of the world is fundamentally incomplete, so we need to avoid getting into unanticipated trouble. And even if our knowledge of the world were complete, it would still be computationally near-impossible to produce a precise, unbiased understanding of reality." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"(respect for the weak being, after intellectual courage, the second most attractive quality to this author)," -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"First, it is an outlier, as it lies outside the realm of regular expectations, because nothing in the past can convincingly point to its possibility. Second, it carries an extreme impact (unlike the bird). Third, in spite of its outlier status, human nature makes us concoct explanations for its occurrence after the fact, making it explainable and predictable." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Stoicism's Emotional Robustification Success brings an asymmetry: you now have a lot more to lose than to gain. You are hence fragile." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We have far too many ways to interpret past events for our own good." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"For more than a millennium the eastern Mediterranean seaboard called Syria Libanensis, or Mount Lebanon, had been able to accommodate at least a dozen different sects, ethnicities, and beliefs—it worked like magic. The place resembled major cities of the eastern Mediterranean (called the Levant) more than it did the other parts in the interior of the Near East (it was easier to move by ship than by land through the mountainous terrain). The Levantine cities were mercantile in nature; people dealt with one another according to a clear protocol, preserving a peace conducive to commerce, and they socialized quite a bit across communities. This millennium of peace was interrupted only by small occasional friction within Moslem and Christian communities, rarely between Christians and Moslems." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We flipped a coin to see who was going to pay for the meal. I lost and paid. He was about to thank me when he abruptly stopped and said that he paid for half of it probabilistically." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The knowledge we get by tinkering, via trial and error, experience, and the workings of time, in other words, contact with the earth, is vastly superior to that obtained through reasoning, something self-serving institutions have been very busy hiding from us." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"They will envy you for your success, for your wealth, for your intelligence, for your looks, for your status—but rarely for your wisdom." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"When the person is highly intelligent, he can astonish you with the most far-fetched, yet completely plausible interpretations of the most innocuous remark. If" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"No muscles without strength, friendship without trust, opinion without consequence, change without aesthetics, age without values, life without effort, water without thirst, food without nourishment, love without sacrifice, power without fairness, facts without rigor, statistics without logic, mathematics without proof, teaching without experience, politeness without warmth, values without embodiment, degrees without erudition, militarism without fortitude, progress without civilization, friendship without investment, virtue without risk, probability without ergodicity, wealth without exposure, complication without depth, fluency without content, decision without asymmetry, science without skepticism, religion without tolerance, and, most of all: nothing without skin in the game." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Rank beliefs not by their plausibility but by how much harm they might cause" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Remember the psychological discussions on asymmetries in the perception of skills in the previous chapter? We see flaws in others and not in ourselves. Once again we seem to be wonderful at self-deceit machines." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"awareness of a problem does not mean much—particularly when you have special interests and self-serving institutions in play." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"But promoting philosophical skepticism is not quite the mission of this book. If awareness of the Black Swan problem can lead us into withdrawal and extreme skepticism, I take here the exact opposite direction. I am interested in deeds and true empiricism. So, this book was not written by a Sufi mystic, or even by a skeptic in the ancient or medieval sense, or even (we will see) in a philosophical sense, but by a practitioner whose principal aim is not to be a sucker in things that matter, period." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Complications lead to multiplicative chains of unanticipated effects." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"...avoidance of small mistakes makes the large ones more severe." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I have no large desire to sacrifice much of my personal habits, intellectual pleasures, and personal standards in order to become a billionaire like Warren Buffett, and I certainly do not see point of becoming one if I were to adopt Spartan (even miserly) habits and live in my starter house." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"And, as expected, via negativa is part of classical wisdom. For the Arab scholar and religious leader Ali Bin Abi-Taleb (no relation), keeping one's distance from an ignorant person is equivalent to keeping company with a wise man." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The Arabs have an expression for trenchant prose: no skill to understand it, mastery to write it." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The model was right, it worked well, but the game turned out to be a different one than anticipated." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Mathematics is not just a numbers game, it is a way of thinking." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Because the bell curve ignores large deviations, cannot handle them, yet makes us confident that we have tamed uncertainty. Its" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We have been unconsciously exploiting antifragility in practical life and, consciously, rejecting it—particularly in intellectual life. The" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The difference between a trader and an investor lies in the duration of the bet, and the corresponding size. There" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"it is not so easy to "falsify," i.e., to state that something is wrong with full certainty. Imperfections" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Technothinkers tend to have an "engineering mind"—to put it less politely, they have autistic tendencies. While they don't usually wear ties, these types tend, of course, to exhibit all the textbook characteristics of nerdiness—mostly lack of charm, interest in objects instead of persons, causing them to neglect their looks. They love precision at the expense of applicability. And they typically share an absence of literary culture." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Mine was the only job you could do if you thought of yourself as risk-hating, risk-aware, and highly ignorant." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Cherry-picking has optionality: the one telling the story (and publishing it) has the advantage of being able to show the confirmatory examples and completely ignore the rest—and the more volatility and dispersion, the rosier the best story will be (and the darker the worst story). Someone" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Non-narrative action: Does not depend on a narrative for the action to be right—the narrative is just there to motivate, entertain, or prompt action. See flâneur." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"What makes life simple is that the robust and antifragile don't have to have as accurate a comprehension of the world as the fragile—and" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Further, we are victims to a new disease, called in this book neomania, that makes us build Black Swan–vulnerable systems—"progress." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"probability is principally a branch of applied skepticism," -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"social treadmill effect: You get rich, move to rich neighborhoods, then become poor again. To that add the psychological treadmill effect; you get used to wealth and revert to a set point of satisfaction. This problem of some people never really getting to feel satisfied by wealth (beyond a given point) has been the subject of technical discussions on happiness." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Jean-Jacques Rousseau wrote, citing him: "It seemed, wrote Machiavelli, that in the midst of murders and civil wars, our republic became stronger [and] its citizens infused with virtues.… A little bit of agitation gives resources to souls and what makes the species prosper isn't peace, but freedom." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"To view it in another way, consider the difference between judging on process and judging on results. Lower-ranking persons in the enterprise are judged on both process and results—in fact, owing to the repetitive aspect of their efforts, their process converges rapidly to results. But top management is only paid on result—no matter the process. There seems to be no such thing as a foolish decision if it results in profits. "Money talks," we are often told. The rest is supposed to be philosophy." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"why did we build something so fragile to these types of events?" Not seeing a tsunami or an economic event coming is excusable; building something fragile to them is not." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Anyone looking for confirmation will find enough of it to deceive himself—and no doubt his peers.*" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"scholars—scholarship without erudition and natural curiosity can close your mind and lead to the fragmentation of disciplines." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"considering that alternative outcomes could have taken place, that the world could have been different, is the core of probabilistic thinking." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"People try to impress you with the things they have done ... You should be more impressed with things they would never do." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I am used to facing, at the end of a conference lecture, the question "So what is the difference between robust and antifragile?" or the more unenlightened and even more irritating "Antifragile is resilient, no?" The reaction to my answer is usually "Ah," with the look "Why didn't you say that before?" (of course I had said that before). Even the initial referee of the scientific article I wrote on defining and detecting antifragility entirely missed the point, conflating antifragility and robustness—and that was the scientist who pored over my definitions. It is worth re-explaining the following: the robust or resilient is neither harmed nor helped by volatility and disorder, while the antifragile benefits from them. But it takes some effort for the concept to sink in. A lot of things people call robust or resilient are just robust or resilient, the other half are antifragile." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Aside from the decorum of ancient thought as opposed to the coarseness of fresh ink, I have spent some time phrasing the idea in the mathematics of evolutionary arguments and conditional probability. For an idea to have survived so long across so many cycles is indicative of its relative fitness. Noise, at least some noise, was filtered out." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Aut tace aut loquere meliora silencio (only when the words outperform silence). These" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"You are a lucky man; you presented in such a comprehensive way the effect of chance on society and the overestimation of cause and effect. You show how stupid we are to systematically try to explain skills." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"people overreact to low-probability outcomes when you discuss the event with them, when you make them aware of it. If" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"If you want to understand how vapid are the current modernistic arguments (and understand your existential priorities), consider the difference between lions in the wild and those in captivity. Lions in captivity live longer; they are technically richer, and they are guaranteed job security for life, if these are the criteria you are focusing on …" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I found out that telling researchers This is where your methods work very well is vastly better than telling them This is what you guys don't know. So when I presented to what was until then the most hostile crowd in the world, members of the American Statistical Association, a map of the four quadrants, and told them: your knowledge works beautifully in these three quadrants, but beware the fourth one, as this is where the Black Swans breed, I received instant approval, support, offers of permanent friendship, refreshments (Diet Coke), invitations to come present at their sessions, even hugs." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"To summarize: in this (personal) essay, I stick my neck out and make a claim, against many of our habits of thought, that our world is dominated by the extreme, the unknown, and the very improbable (improbable according our current knowledge)—and all the while we spend our time engaged in small talk, focusing on the known, and the repeated. This implies the need to use the extreme event as a starting point and not treat it as an exception to be pushed under the rug. I also make the bolder (and more annoying) claim that in spite of our progress and the growth in knowledge, or perhaps because of such progress and growth, the future will be increasingly less predictable, while both human nature and social "science" seem to conspire to hide the idea from us." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"And as an essayist, I am not judged by other writers, book editors, and book reviewers, but by readers. Readers? Maybe, but wait a minute…not today's readers. Only those of tomorrow, and the day after tomorrow. So, my only real judge being time, it is the stability and robustness of the readership (that is, future readers) that counts." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Being reviewed or assessed by others matters if and only if one is subjected to the judgment of future—not just present—others. And recall that, a free person does not need to win arguments—just win.*2" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Also consider that lobbyists—this annoying race of lobbyists—cannot exist in a municipality or small region." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"They game the system while citizens pay the price. At no point in history have so many non-risk-takers, that is, those with no personal exposure, exerted so much control. The chief ethical rule is the following: Thou shalt not have antifragility at the expense of the fragility of others." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"gene plays a role, are quite tractable, but anything entailing higher dimensionality falls apart. Understanding the genetic makeup of a unit will never allow us to understand the behavior of the unit itself. A reminder that what I am writing here isn't an opinion. It is a straightforward mathematical property. The mean-field approach is when one uses the average interaction between, say, two people, and generalizes to the group—it is only possible if there are no asymmetries. For instance, Yaneer Bar-Yam has applied the failure of mean-field to evolutionary theory of the selfish-gene narrative trumpeted by such aggressive journalistic minds as Richard Dawkins and Steven Pinker, with more mastery of English than probability theory. He shows that local properties fail and the so-called mathematics used to prove the selfish gene are woefully naive and misplaced. There has been a storm around work by Martin Nowack and his colleagues (which include the biologist E. O. Wilson) about the terminal flaws in the selfish gene theory.fn2" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A king, angry at his son, swore that he would crush him with a large stone." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The policies we need to make decisions on should depend far more on the range of possible outcomes than on the expected final number. I" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I don't know the odds of an earthquake, but I can imagine how San Francisco might be affected by one. This idea that in order to make a decision you need to focus on the consequences (which you can know) rather than the probability (which you can't know) is the central idea of uncertainty. Much of my life is based on it.You can build an overall theory of decision making on this idea. All you have to do is mitigate the consequences. As I said, if my portfolio is exposed to a market crash, the odds of which I can't compute, all I have to do is buy insurance, or get out and invest the amounts I am not willing to ever lose in less risky securities." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Hire the successful trader, conditional on a solid track record, whose details you can understand the least." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The virtue of capitalism is that society can take advantage of people's greed rather than their benevolence, but there is no need to, in addition, extol such greed as a moral (or intellectual) accomplishment (the reader can easily see that, aside from very few exceptions like George Soros, I am not impressed by people with money)." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I am never bothered by normal people; it is the bull***tter in the intellectual profession who bothers me. Seeing the psychologist Steven Pinker making pronouncements about things intellectual has a similar effect to encountering a drive-in Burger King while hiking in the middle of a national park." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Yet simplicity has been difficult to implement in modern life because it is against the spirit of a certain brand of people who seek sophistication so they can justify their profession." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"we are effectively not skilled at intuitively gauging the impact of the improbable, such" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"In a few decades will we look upon the Nobel economics committee with the same smirk as when we look at the respected "scientific" establishments of the Middle Ages that promoted (against all observational evidence) the idea that the heart  was a center of heat? We have been getting things wrong in the past and we laugh at our past institutions; it is time to figure out that we should avoid enshrining the present ones." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The "persecution" of the Christians had vastly more to do with the intolerance of the Christians for the pantheon of local gods than the reverse. What we read is history written by the Christian side, not the Greco-Roman one." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"second fallacy lies in failing to take into account forecast degradation as the projected period lengthens. We" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The French writer Edmond About, who visited Greece in 1832, a dozen years after its independence, reports how peasants struggled with the metric system as it was completely unnatural to them and stuck to Ottoman standards instead." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Mother Nature did not attend high school geometry courses or read the books of Euclid of Alexandria. Her geometry is jagged, but with a logic of its own and one that is easy to understand." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It happens that uncertainty, disorder, and the unknown are completely equivalent in their effect: antifragile systems benefit (to some degree) from, and the fragile is penalized by, almost all of them—even if you have to find them in separate buildings of the university campuses and some philosophaster who has never taken real risks in his life, or, worse, never had a life, would inform you that "they are clearly not the same thing." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"And, just as it is harder to have good qualities when one is rich than when one is poor, it is harder to be a Stoic when one is wealthy, powerful, and respected than when one is destitute, miserable, and lonely." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"but at least I know that I cannot forecast and a small number of people (those I care about) take that as an asset." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Economics is not a science and should not be there to advise policy." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"my characterization of a loser is someone who, after making a mistake, doesn't introspect, doesn't exploit it, feels embarrassed and defensive rather than enriched with a new piece of information, and tries to explain why he made the mistake rather than moving on. These types often consider themselves the "victims" of some large plot, a bad boss, or bad weather." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"This chapter has two topics. First, we are demonstrably arrogant about what we think we know. We certainly know a lot, but we have a built-in tendency to think that we know a little bit more than we actually do, enough of that little bit to occasionally get into serious trouble. We shall see how you can verify, even measure, such arrogance in your own living room. Second, we will look at the implications of this arrogance for all the activities involving prediction. Why on earth do we predict so much? Worse, even, and more interesting: Why don't we talk about our record in predicting? Why don't we see how we (almost) always miss the big events? I call this the scandal of prediction." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A simple solution, but quite drastic: anyone who goes into public service should not be allowed to subsequently earn more from any commercial activity than the income of the highest paid civil servant. It is like a voluntary cap (it would prevent people from using public office as a credential-building temporary accommodation, then going to Wall Street to earn several million dollars). This would get priestly people into office." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Light control works; close control leads to overreaction," -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"you have a real life if and only if you do not compete with anyone in any of your pursuits" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"what is made to fly will not do well trapped on the ground," -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Those who use foul language on social networks (such as Twitter) are sending an expensive signal that they are free—and, ironically, competent. You don't signal competence if you don't take risks for it—there are few such low-risk strategies. So cursing today is a status symbol, just as oligarchs in Moscow wear blue jeans at special events to signal their power." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Normative Economics is like religion without the aesthetics." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Our brain is not cut out for nonlinearities. People think that if, say, two variables are causally linked, then a steady input in one variable should always yield a result in the other one. Our emotional apparatus is designed for linear causality. For" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"An erudite is someone who displays less than he knows; a journalist or consultant, the opposite." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Those who think religion is about "belief" don't understand religion, and don't understand belief." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Using, as an excuse, others' failure of common sense is in itself a failure of common sense." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"our misunderstanding of the Black Swan can be largely attributed to our using System 1, i.e., narratives," -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Paris itself was barely controlled by France—no more than the Rio slums called favelas are currently ruled by the Brazilian central state." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It is always convenient to invoke universalism when you are in the majority." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"There is this error of thinking that things always have a reason that is accessible to us—that we can comprehend easily." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Our problem is not just that we do not know the future, we do not know much of the past either. We" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Elsa Triolet ("time burns but leaves no ashes")." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The way to avoid the ills of the narrative fallacy is to favor experimentation over storytelling, experience over history, and clinical knowledge over theories. Certainly" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The defender of the dogmas of modern finance and efficient markets started a fund that took advantage of market inefficiencies! It is as if the Pope converted to Islam." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The payoff of a human venture is, in general, inversely proportional to what it is expected to be." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Let us return to the distinction between Thalesian and Aristotelian for a minute and look at evolution from the following point of view. The frequency, i.e., how often someone is right is largely irrelevant in the real world, but alas, one needs to be a practitioner, not a talker, to figure it out. On paper, the frequency of being right matters, but only on paper—typically, fragile payoffs have little (sometimes no) upside, and antifragile payoffs have little downside. This means that one makes pennies to lose dollars in the fragile case; makes dollars to lose pennies in the antifragile one. So the antifragile can lose for a long time with impunity, so long as he happens to be right once; for the fragile, a single loss can be terminal. Accordingly if you were betting on the downfall of, say, a portfolio of financial institutions because of their fragilities, it would have cost you pennies over the years preceding their eventual demise in 2008, as Nero and Tony did. (Note again that taking the other side of fragility makes you antifragile.) You were wrong for years, right for a moment, losing small, winning big, so vastly more successful than the other way (actually the other way would be bust). So you would have made the Thekels like Thales because betting against the fragile is antifragile. But someone who had merely "predicted" the event with just words would have been called by the journalists "wrong for years," "wrong most of the time," etc. Should we keep tally of opinion makers' "right" and "wrong," the proportion does not matter, as we need to include consequences. And given that this is impossible, we are now in a quandary. Look at it again, the way we looked at entrepreneurs. They are usually wrong and make "mistakes"—plenty of mistakes. They are convex. So what counts is the payoff from success." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Yet in spite of the visibility of the counterevidence, and the wisdom you can pick up free of charge from the ancients (or grandmothers), moderns try today to create inventions from situations of comfort, safety, and predictability instead of accepting the notion that "necessity really is the mother of invention." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It turns out, as shown by Karsenty and others who have since embarked on the line of research, that the reverse is also largely true: loss of bone density and degradation of the health of the bones also causes aging, diabetes, and, for males, loss of fertility and sexual function. We just cannot isolate any causal relationship in a complex system." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"In their intense meditation the hidden sound of things approaching reaches them and they listen reverently while in the street outside the people hear nothing at all." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Luck favors the prepared," Pasteur" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Linear relationships are truly the exception; we only focus on them in classrooms and textbooks because they are easier to understand. Yesterday" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Many, like the great Roman statesman Cato the Censor, looked at comfort, almost any form of comfort, as a road to waste.1 He did not like it when we had it too easy, as he worried about the weakening of the will. And the softening he feared was not just at the personal level: an entire society can fall ill." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The more we try to turn history into anything other than an enumeration of accounts to be enjoyed with minimal theorizing, the more we get into trouble. Are we so plagued with the narrative fallacy?†" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"For instance, having an intense emotional shock from seeing a snake coming out of my keyboard or a vampire entering my room, followed by a period of soothing safety (with chamomile tea and baroque music) long enough for me to regain control of my emotions, would be beneficial for my health, provided of course that I manage to overcome the snake or vampire after an arduous, hopefully heroic fight and have a picture taken next to the dead predator." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"talking about radiation, few wonder why, after hundreds of million of years of having our skins exposed to sun rays, we suddenly need so much protection from them—is it that our exposure is more harmful than before because of changes in the atmosphere, or populations living in an environment mismatching the pigmentation of their skin—or rather, that makers of sun protection products need to make some profits?" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The problem of lumpy payoffs is not so much in the lack of income they entail, but the pecking order, the loss of dignity, the subtle humiliations near the watercooler." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"(If you think that you can control your emotions, think that some people also believe that they can control their heartbeat or hair growth.)" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"To be genuinely empirical is to reflect reality as faithfully as possible; to be honorable implies not fearing the appearance and consequences of being outlandish." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"people often confuse complex ideas that cannot be simplified into a media-friendly statement as symptomatic of a confused mind." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Their three flaws: 1) they think in statics not dynamics, 2) they think in low, not high, dimensions, 3) they think in terms of actions, never interactions." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Mediocristan is where we must endure the tyranny of the collective, the routine, the obvious, and the predicted; Extremistan is where we are subjected to the tyranny of the singular, the accidental, the unseen, and the unpredicted." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Simply, humans should not be given explosive toys (like atomic bombs, financial derivatives, or tools to create life)." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"From such examples, I derived the rule that what is called "healthy" is generally unhealthy, just as "social" networks are antisocial, and the "knowledge"-based economy is typically ignorant." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The human mind suffers from three ailments as it comes into contact with history, what I call the triplet of opacity. They are: the illusion of understanding, or how everyone thinks he knows what is going on in a world that is more complicated (or random) than they realize; the retrospective distortion, or how we can assess matters only after the fact, as if they were in a rearview mirror (history seems clearer and more organized in history books than in empirical reality); and the overvaluation of factual information and the handicap of authoritative and learned people, particularly when they create categories—when they "Platonify." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"You may prefer apples to oranges, oranges to pears, but pears to apples—it depends on how the choices are presented to you. The" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"On the one hand, I try to define myself and behave officially as a no-nonsense hyperrealist ferreting out the role of chance; on the other, I have no qualms indulging in all manner of personal superstitions. Where do I draw the line? The answer is aesthetics." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"American culture encourages the process of failure, unlike the cultures of Europe and Asia where failure is met with stigma and embarrassment. America's specialty is to take these small risks for the rest of the world, which explains this country's disproportionate share in innovations." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"In a natural environment, people die without aging—or after a very short period of aging." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I was once shown the script of a film based on a parable of a city completely ruled by randomness—very Borgesian. At set intervals, the ruler randomly assigns to the denizens a new role in the city. Say the butcher would now become a baker, and the baker a prisoner, etc. At the end, people end up rebelling against the ruler, asking for stability as their inalienable right. I immediately thought that perhaps the opposite parable should be written: instead of having the rulers randomize the jobs of citizens, we should have citizens randomize the jobs of rulers, naming them by raffles and removing them at random as well. That is similar to simulated annealing—and it happens to be no less effective. It turned out that the ancients—again, those ancients!—were aware of it: the members of the Athenian assemblies were chosen by lot, a method meant to protect the system from degeneracy. Luckily, this effect has been investigated with modern political systems. In a computer simulation, Alessandro Pluchino and his colleagues showed how adding a certain number of randomly selected politicians to the process can improve the functioning of the parliamentary system." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"it so happens that America is currently far, far more creative than these nations of museumgoers and equation solvers. It is also far more tolerant of bottom-up tinkering and undirected trial and error. And" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"from increasing the number of people in the "tails," that small, very small number of risk takers crazy enough to have ideas of their own, those endowed with" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Criticism, for a book, is a truthful, unfaked badge of attention, signaling that it is not boring; and boring is the only very bad thing for a book. Consider" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Compromising is condoning. The only modern dictum I follow is one by George Santayana: A man is morally free when … he judges the world, and judges other men, with uncompromising sincerity. This is not just an aim but an obligation." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"that very rare ability called imagination, that rarer quality called courage, and who make things happen." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"This anchoring to a number is the reason people do not react to their total accumulated wealth, but to differences of wealth from whatever number they are currently anchored to. This is the major conflict with economic theory, as according to economists, someone with $1 million in the bank would be more satisfied than if he had half a million. But" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"If both the positive and the negative consequences of an action fell on its author, our learning would be fast. But often an action's positive consequences benefit only its author, since they are visible, while the negative consequences, being invisible, apply to others, with a net cost to society." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"So, suspecting that Nero had a contract on her, she got herself Mithridatized against the poisons that would have been available to her son's underlings. Like Mithridates, Agrippina eventually died by more mechanical methods as her son (supposedly) had assassins slay her, thus providing us with the small but meaningful lesson that one cannot be robust against everything. And, two thousand years later, nobody has found a method for us to get "fortified" against swords." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The consequences are not trivial: It means that rational thinking has little, very little, to do with risk avoidance. Much of what rational thinking seems to do is rationalize one's actions by fitting some logic to them." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Seneca's version of that Stoicism is antifragility from fate. No downside from Lady Fortuna, plenty of upside." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We would not even need a statistician; a second-rate engineer would do." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Recall that epic heroes were judged by their actions, not by the results. No matter how sophisticated our choices, how good we are at dominating the odds, randomness will have the last word. We are left only with dignity as a solution—dignity defined as the execution of a protocol of behavior that does not depend on the immediate circumstance. It may not be the optimal one, but it certainly is the one that makes us feel best. Grace under pressure, for example. Or in deciding not to toady up to someone, whatever" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I had time to kill at the airport and it was a great opportunity for me to buy dark European chocolate, especially since I have managed to successfully convince myself that airport calories don't count. The" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Engineers and tinkerers develop things while history books are written by academics; we will have to refine historical interpretations of growth, innovation, and many such things." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"what Mother Nature does is rigorous until proven otherwise; what humans and science do is flawed until proven otherwise." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The answer is that there are two varieties of rare events: a) the narrated Black Swans, those that are present in the current discourse and that you are likely to hear about on television, and b) those nobody talks about, since they escape models—those that you would feel ashamed discussing in public because they do not seem plausible. I" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Evidence shows that we do much less thinking than we believe we do-except, of course, when we think about it." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Like tormenting love, some thoughts are so antifragile that you feed them by trying to get rid of them, turning them into obsessions. Psychologists have shown the irony of the process of thought control: the more energy you put into trying to control your ideas and what you think about, the more your ideas end up controlling you." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"When you look at the past, the past will always be deterministic, since only one single observation took place." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"You need a story to displace a story. Metaphors and stories are far more potent (alas) than ideas; they are also easier to remember and more fun to read. If I have to go after what I call the narrative disciplines, my best tool is a narrative. Ideas come and go, stories stay." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"This absence of literary culture is actually a marker of future blindness because it is usually accompanied by a denigration of history, a byproduct of unconditional neomania. Outside of the niche and isolated genre of science fiction, literature is about the past. We do not learn physics or biology from medieval textbooks, but we still read Homer, Plato, or the very modern Shakespeare." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Some people do not know their own interest—just consider addicts, workaholics, people trapped in a bad relationship, people who support large government, the press, book reviewers, or respectable bureaucrats, all of whom for some mysterious reason act against their own interest." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"If you take risks and face your fate with dignity, there is nothing you can do that makes you small. If you don't take risks, there is nothing you can do that makes you grand. Nothing. And when you take risks, insults by half-men, small men, those who don't risk anything, are similar to barks by non-human animals. You can't feel insulted by a dog." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We end up populating what we call the intelligentsia with people who are delusional, literally mentally deranged, simply because they never have to pay for the consequences of their actions, repeating moderniest slogans stripped of all depth...The principle of intervention, like that of healers, is first do not harm; even more we will argue, those who don't take risks should never be involved in decision making (p.10). Their three flaws 1) they think in statics not dynamics 2) they think in low, not high dimensions 3) they think in terms of actions, never interactions....The first flaw is they are incapable in thinking in second steps and unaware of the need of them...The second flaw is that they are also incapable of distinguishing between multidimensional problems and their single dimensional representations. The third flaw is they can't forecast the evolution of those one helps by attaching, or the magnification one gets from feedback. (p.9)" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Half of life—the interesting half of life—we don't have a name for." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"many people mistaken for entrepreneurs fail to have true skin in the game in the sense that their aim is to either cash out by selling the company they helped create to someone else, or "go public" by issuing shares in the stock market. The true value of the company, what it makes, and its long-term survival are of small relevance to them. This is a pure financing scheme and we will exclude this class of people from our "entrepreneur" risk-taker class (this form of entrepreneurship is the equivalent of bringing great-looking and marketable children into the world with the sole aim of selling them at age four). We can easily identify them by their ability to write a convincing business plan." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"studying courage in textbooks doesn't make you any more courageous than eating cow meat makes you bovine." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Know how to rank your beliefs not according to their plausibility but by the harm they may cause." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The problem lies in the structure of our minds: we don't learn rules, just facts, and only facts." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"today we depend on the press for such essentially human things as gossip and anecdotes and we care about the private lives of people in very remote places." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"minds are in the business of turning history into something smooth and linear, which makes us underestimate randomness. But when we see it, we fear it and overreact. Because of this fear and thirst for order, some human systems, by disrupting the invisible or not so visible logic of things, tend to be exposed to harm from Black Swans and almost never get any benefit. You get pseudo-order when you seek order; you only get a measure of order and control when you embrace randomness." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"My idea of the modern Stoic sage is someone who transforms fear into prudence, pain into information, mistakes into initiation, and desire into undertaking." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"If you can't put your soul into something, give it up and leave that stuff to someone else." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Assume that someone tells you that the probability of an event is exactly zero. You ask him where he got this from. "Baal told me" is the answer. In such case, the person is coherent, but would be deemed unrealistic by non-Baalists. But if on the other hand, the person tells you "I estimated it to be zero," we have a problem. The person is both unrealistic and inconsistent. Something estimated needs to have an estimation error. So probability cannot be zero if it is estimated, its lower bound is linked to the estimation error; the higher the estimation error, the higher the probability, up to a point. As with Laplace's argument of total ignorance, an infinite estimation error pushes the probability toward ½." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Self-contradiction is made culturally to be shameful, a matter that can prove disastrous in science." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"...the mental probabilistic map in one's mind is so geared toward sensational that one would realize informational gains by dispensing with the news." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Entrepreneurs are selected to be just doers, not thinkers, and doers do, they don't talk, and it would be unfair, wrong, and downright insulting to measure them in the talk department. The same with artisans: the quality lies in their product, not their conversation—in fact they can easily have false beliefs that, as a side effect (inverse iatrogenics), lead them to make better products, so what? Bureaucrats, on the other hand, because of the lack of an objective metric of success and the absence of market forces, are selected on the "halo effects" of shallow looks and elegance. The side effect is to make them better at conversation. I am quite certain a dinner with a United Nations employee would cover more interesting subjects than one with some of Fat Tony's cousins or a computer entrepreneur obsessed with circuits." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Have you noticed that while corporations sell you junk drinks, artisans sell you cheese and wine?" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Not everything that happens happens for a reason, but everything that survives survives for a reason." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"There are two types of people: those who try to win and those who try to win arguments. They are never the same." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Nicocles, as early as the fourth century B.C., asserts that doctors claimed responsibility for success and blamed failure on nature, or on some external cause. The" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"True, the Web produces acute concentration. A large number of users visit just a few sites, such as Google, which, at the time of this writing, has total market dominance. At no time in history has a company grown so dominant so quickly—Google can service people from Nicaragua to southwestern Mongolia to the American West Coast, without having to worry about phone operators, shipping, delivery, and manufacturing. This is the ultimate winner-take-all case study. People forget, though, that before Google, Alta Vista dominated the search-engine market. I am prepared to revise the Google metaphor by replacing it with a new name for future editions of this book." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"If you engage in a Black Swan–dependent activity, it is better to be part of a group." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"There are so many things we can do if we focus on antiknowledge, or what we do not know." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Transportation didn't get safer just because people learn from errors, but because the system does. The experience of the system is different from that of individuals; it is grounded in filtering." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Let us return to the idea that universities generate wealth and the growth of useful knowledge in society. There is a causal illusion here; time to bust it." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"This lack of translation is a mental handicap that comes with being a human; and we will only start to attain wisdom or rationality when we make an effort to overcome and break through it." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Two weekends in Philadelphia are not twice as pleasant as a single one—I've tried." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"When people get rich, they shed their skin-in-the-game-driven experiential mechanism. They lose control of their preferences, substituting constructed preferences for their own, complicating their lives unnecessarily, triggering their own misery." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"In a textbook case of naive empiricism, the author also looked for traits these millionaires had in common and figured out that they shared a taste for risk taking. Clearly risk taking is necessary for large success—but it is also necessary for failure. Had the author done the same study on bankrupt citizens he would certainly have found a predilection for risk taking." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"If you take risks and face your fate with dignity, there is nothing you can do that makes you small; if you don't take risks, there is nothing you can do that makes you grand, nothing." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Given the unattainability of perfect robustness, we need a mechanism by which the system regenerates itself continuously by using, rather than suffering from, random events, unpredictable shocks, stressors, and volatility." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The worst problem of modernity lies in the malignant transfer of fragility and antifragility from one party to the other, with one getting the benefits, the other (unwittingly) getting the harm, with such transfer facilitated by the growing wedge between the ethical and the legal." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"by creating bureaucracies, we put civil servants in a position to make decisions based on abstract and theoretical matters, with the illusion that they will be making them in a rational, accountable way." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It is said that the best horses lose when they compete with slower ones, and win against better rivals. Undercompensation from the absence of a stressor, inverse hormesis, absence of challenge, degrades the best of the best. In Baudelaire's poem, "The albatross's giant wings prevent him from walking"—many do better in Calculus 103 than Calculus 101." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Why do we keep focusing on the minutiae, not the possible significant large events, in spite of the obvious evidence of their huge influence?" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The market is like a large movie theater with a small door. And the best way to detect a sucker is to see if his focus is on the size of the theater rather than that of the door." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"incertitude." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"And we can almost always detect antifragility (and fragility) using a simple test of asymmetry: anything that has more upside than downside from random events (or certain shocks) is antifragile; the reverse is fragile." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Of course skills count, but they do count less in highly random environments than they do in dentistry." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"loss of mental function, taste for Frank Sinatra music, and similar degenerative effects." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Greatness starts with the replacement of hatred with polite disdain." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The biologist and intellectual E. O. Wilson was once asked what represented the most hindrance to the development of children; his answer was the soccer mom….Soccer moms try to eliminate the trial and error from children's lives and transform them into nerds working on preexisting (soccer-mom-compatible) maps of reality. They are good students, but nerds--that is, they are like computers except slower. Further, they are totally untrained to handle ambiguity….Provided we have the right type of rigor, we need randomness, mess, adventures, uncertainty, self-discovery, near-traumatic episodes, all those things that make life worth living." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"(The error in reasoning is a bit from wishful thinking, because education is considered "good"; I wonder why people don't make the epiphenomenal association between the wealth of a country and something "bad," say, decadence, and infer that decadence, or some other disease of wealth like a high suicide rate, also generates wealth.)" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Only he who is free with his time is free with his opinion." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The Web is an unhealthy place for someone hungry for attention." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Cabdrivers did not believe that they understood as much as learned people—really, they were not the experts and they knew it. Nobody knew anything, but elite thinkers thought that they knew more than the rest because they were elite thinkers, and if you're a member of the elite, you automatically know more than the nonelite." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"These traders lose money frequently, but in small amounts, and make money rarely, but in large amounts. I call them crisis hunters. I am happy to be one of them." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I am also realizing the nonlinear effect behind success in anything: It is better to have a handful of enthusiastic advocates than hordes of people who appreciate your work—better to be loved by a dozen than liked by the hundreds. This applies to the sales of books, the spread of ideas, and success in general and runs counter to conventional logic. The information age is worsening this effect." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A cluster of municipalities with charming provincial enmities, their own internal fights, and people out to get one another aggregates to a quite benign and stable state." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Science isn't the sum of what scientists think, but exactly as with markets. Had science operated by majority consensus, we would be still stuck in the Middle Ages." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"we are not learning from a mere thousand days, but benefiting, thanks to evolution, from the learning of our ancestors—which found its way into our biology." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"You cannot do anything with knowledge unless you know where it stops, and the costs of using it." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It would be preferable if we were better at understanding cancer or the (highly nonlinear) weather than the origin of the universe. How" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"interventionism depletes mental and economic resources; it is rarely available when it is needed the most." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"the more lethal the risks, the less visible they will be, since the severely victimized are likely to be eliminated from the evidence. The" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Characteristically, Samuelson intimidated those who questioned his techniques with the statement "Those who can, do science, others do methodology." If you knew math, you could "do science." This is reminiscent of psychoanalysts who silence their critics by accusing them of having trouble with their fathers." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The number of cultured people dropped below some critical level. Suddenly the place became a vacuum. Brain drain is hard to reverse, and some of the old refinement may be lost forever." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"After more than twenty years as a transactional trader and businessman in what I called the "strange profession," I tried what one calls an academic career. And I have something to report—actually that was the driver behind this idea of antifragility in life and the dichotomy between the natural and the alienation of the unnatural. Commerce is fun, thrilling, lively, and natural; academia as currently professionalized is none of these. And for those who think that academia is "quieter" and an emotionally relaxing transition after the volatile and risk-taking business life, a surprise: when in action, new problems and scares emerge every day to displace and eliminate the previous day's headaches, resentments, and conflicts. A nail displaces another nail, with astonishing variety. But academics (particularly in social science) seem to distrust each other; they live in petty obsessions, envy, and icy-cold hatreds, with small snubs developing into grudges, fossilized over time in the loneliness of the transaction with a computer screen and the immutability of their environment. Not to mention a level of envy I have almost never seen in business. … My experience is that money and transactions purify relations; ideas and abstract matters like "recognition" and "credit" warp them, creating an atmosphere of perpetual rivalry. I grew to find people greedy for credentials nauseating, repulsive, and untrustworthy." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Psychologists have shown the irony of the process of thought control: the more energy you put into trying to control your ideas and what you think about, the more your ideas end up controlling you." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"you have to work hard to get your thinking clean to make it simple." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Effectively, there is no democracy without such an unconditional symmetry in the rights to express yourself, and the gravest threat is the slippery slope in the attempts to limit speech on grounds that some of it may hurt some people's feelings. Such restrictions do not necessarily come from the state itself, rather from the forceful establishment of an intellectual monoculture by an overactive thought police in the media and cultural life." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Indeed, the more you know, the larger the rows of unread books." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"From predator-prey models (the so-called Lotka-Volterra type of population dynamics), I knew that populations will experience Extremistan-style variability, hence predators will necessarily go through periods of feast and famine. That's us, humans-we had to have been designed to experience extreme hunger and extreme abundance. So our food intake had to have been fractal. Not a single one of those promoting the three meals a day, eat in moderation idea has tested it empirically to see whether it is healthier than intermittent fasts followed by large feasts.But Near Eastern religions (Judaism, Islam, and Orthodox Christianity) knew it, of course-just as they knew the need for debt avoidance-and so they had fast days." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"science is about how not to be a sucker." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"More generally, we underestimate the share of randomness in about everything, a point that may not merit a book—except when it is the specialist who is the fool of all fools. Disturbingly, science has only recently been able to handle randomness (the growth in available information has been exceeded only by the expansion of noise). Probability theory is a young arrival in mathematics; probability applied to practice is almost nonexistent as a discipline. In addition we seem to have evidence that what is called "courage" comes from an underestimation of the share of randomness in things rather than the more noble ability to stick one's neck out for a given belief. In my experience (and in the scientific literature), economic "risk takers" are rather the victims of delusions (leading to overoptimism and overconfidence with their underestimation of possible adverse outcomes) than the opposite. Their "risk taking" is frequently randomness foolishness." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"When you don't have debt you don't care about your reputation in economics circles—and somehow it is only when you don't care about your reputation that you tend to have a good one. Just" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"is often a good career move for an author." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"And entrepreneurship is a risky and heroic activity, necessary for growth or even the mere survival of the economy." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"reality does not have the same closed and symmetric laws and regulations as games." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"His idea is that if we were to optimize at every step in life, then it would cost us an infinite amount of time and energy. Accordingly," -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I AM NOT SO INTELLIGENT The epiphany I had in my career in randomness came when I understood that I was not intelligent enough, nor strong enough, to even try to fight my emotions. Besides, I believe that I need my emotions to formulate my ideas and get the energy to execute them. I am just intelligent enough to understand that I have a predisposition to be fooled by randomness—and to accept the fact that I am rather emotional. I am dominated by my emotions—but as an aesthete, I am happy about that fact. I am just like every single character whom I ridiculed in this book. Not only that, but I may be even worse than them because there may be a negative correlation between beliefs and behavior (recall Popper the man). The difference between me and those I ridicule is that I try to be aware of it. No matter how long I study and try to understand probability, my emotions will respond to a different set of calculations, those that my unintelligent genes want me to handle. If my brain can tell the difference between noise and signal, my heart cannot. Such unintelligent behavior does not just cover probability and randomness. I do not think I am reasonable enough to avoid getting angry when a discourteous driver blows his horn at me for being one nanosecond late after a traffic light turns green. I am fully aware that such anger is self-destructive and offers no benefit, and that if I were to develop anger for every idiot around me doing something of the sort, I would be long dead. These small daily emotions are not rational. But we need them to function properly. We are designed to respond to hostility with hostility. I have enough enemies to add some spice to my life, but I sometimes wish I had a few more (I rarely go to the movies and need the entertainment). Life would be unbearably bland if we had no enemies on whom to waste efforts and energy." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"There are traps built into any kind of knowledge gained from observation." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"reality provides such forced revisions of beliefs at quite a high frequency. Many" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"often an action's positive consequences benefit only its author, since they are visible, while the negative consequences, being invisible, apply to others, with a net cost to society. Consider" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"There is such a thing as nonnerdy applied mathematics: find a problem first, and figure out the math that works for it (just as one acquires language), rather than study in a vacuum through theorems and artificial examples, then change reality to make it look like these examples." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Basically this category would include those who think that the cure for obesity is to inform people that they should be healthy." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"In order to progress, modern society should be treating ruined entrepreneurs in the same way we honor dead soldiers, perhaps not with as much honor, but using exactly the same logic (the entrepreneur is still alive, though perhaps morally broken and socially stigmatized, particularly if he lives in Japan). For there is no such thing as a failed soldier, dead or alive (unless he acted in a cowardly manner)—likewise, there is no such thing as a failed entrepreneur or failed scientific researcher, any more than there is a successful babbler, philosophaster, commentator, consultant, lobbyist, or business school professor who does not take personal risks. (Sorry.)" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Needless to say that the ideas of this book fall squarely into the Tragic category: We are faulty and there is no need to bother trying to correct our flaws. We are so defective and so mismatched to our environment that we can just work around these flaws." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"As an empiricist (actually a skeptical empiricist) I despise the moralizers beyond anything on this planet: I still wonder why they blindly believe in ineffectual methods. Delivering advice assumes that our cognitive apparatus rather than our emotional machinery exerts some meaningful control over our actions. We will see how modern behavioral science shows this to be completely untrue." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"During a radio interview, when I tried explaining to the journalist the nuance and the difference between the two statements I was told that I was "too complicated"; so I simply walked out of the studio, leaving them in the lurch. The depressing part is that those people who were committing such mistakes were educated journalists entrusted to represent the world to us lay persons." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"in Arabic it is called Shhm—best translated as nonsmall. If you take risks and face your fate with dignity, there is nothing you can do that makes you small; if you don't take risks, there is nothing you can do that makes you grand, nothing." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"How can we logically go from specific instances to reach general conclusions? How do we know what we know? How do we know that what we have observed from given objects and events suffices to enable us to figure out their other properties? There" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I mentioned earlier that to understand successes and analyze what caused them, we need to study the traits present in failures." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Robert Rubin, a former Secretary of the United States Treasury, one of those who sign their names on the banknote you just used to pay for coffee, collected more than $120 million in compensation from Citibank in the decade preceding the banking crash of 2008. When the bank, literally insolvent, was rescued by the taxpayer, he didn't write any check—he invoked uncertainty as an excuse. Heads he wins, tails he shouts "Black Swan." Nor did Rubin acknowledge that he transferred risk to taxpayers: Spanish grammar specialists, assistant schoolteachers, supervisors in tin can factories, vegetarian nutrition advisors, and clerks for assistant district attorneys were "stopping him out," that is, taking his risks and paying for his losses. But the worst casualty has been free markets, as the public, already prone to hating financiers, started conflating free markets and higher order forms of corruption and cronyism, when in fact it is the exact opposite: it is government, not markets, that makes these things possible by the mechanisms of bailouts. It is not just bailouts: government interference in general tends to remove skin in the game." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Locke's definition of a madman: someone "reasoning correctly from erroneous premises." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"you'd even rather have a failed real person than a successful one, as blemishes, scars, and character flaws increase the distance between a human and a ghost." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"What he likes most about proprietary trading is that it requires considerably less time than other high-paying professions; in other words it is perfectly compatible with his non-middle-class work ethic. Trading forces someone to think hard; those who merely work hard generally lose their focus and intellectual energy. In addition, they end up drowning in randomness; work ethics, Nero believes, draw people to focus on noise rather than the signal" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"from the reference point of the winner (and, who does not, and this is key, take the losers into account), a long string of wins will appear to be too extraordinary an occurrence to be explained by luck. Note" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Mother Nature has given us some defense mechanisms: as in Aesop's fable, one of these is our ability to consider that the grapes we cannot (or did not) reach are sour. But an aggressively stoic prior disdain and rejection of the grapes is even more rewarding. Be aggressive; be the one to resign, if you have the guts." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Our sophistication continuously puts us ahead of ourselves, creating things we are less and less capable of understanding." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"after the event you start predicting the possibility of other outliers happening locally, that is, in the process you were just surprised by, but not elsewhere. After" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"My biggest problem with the educational system lies precisely in that it forces students to squeeze explanations out of subject matters and shames them for withholding judgment, for uttering the "I don't know." Why" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Conduct yourself toward your parents as you would have your children conduct themselves toward you." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"You never win an argument until they attack your person." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A man is honorable in proportion to the personal risks he takes for his opinion—in other words, the amount of downside he is exposed to. To sum him up, Nero believed in erudition, aesthetics, and risk taking—little else." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"do not use this argument to avoid trying to learn from history. All I am saying is that it is not so simple; be suspicious of the "because" and handle it with care—particularly in situations where you suspect silent evidence." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"You stand above the rat race and the pecking order, not outside of it, if you do so by choice." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Life would be unbearably bland if we had no enemies on whom to waste efforts and energy." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Makridakis and Hibon reached the sad conclusion that statistically sophisticated or complex methods do not necessarily provide more accurate forecasts than simpler ones." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"loss of bone density and degradation of the health of the bones also causes aging, diabetes, and, for males, loss of fertility and sexual function. We just cannot isolate any causal relationship in a complex system." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Verba volent, words fly. Never have people who talk and don't do been more visible, and played a larger role, than in modern times. This is the product of modernism and division of tasks. Recall that I said that America's" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The degeneration of philosophical schools in its turn is the consequence of the mistaken belief that one can philosophize without having been compelled to philosophize by problems outside philosophy. …" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A system with skin-in-the-game requirements holds together through the notion of a sacrifice in order to protect the collective or entities higher in the hierarchy that are required to survive." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"These were the days before I decided to climb up the mountain, speak slowly and in a priestly tone, and try shaming people rather than insulting them." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"(whenever I hear work ethics I interpret inefficient mediocrity)." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"perception of causation has a biological foundation." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Genuine philosophical problems are always rooted outside philosophy and" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Using the confirmation bias, these people will tell you that religion was horrible for mankind by counting deaths from the Inquisition and various religious wars. But they will not show you how many people were killed by nationalism, social science, and political theory under Stalinism or during the Vietnam War. Even" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The Federal Reserve bank protected them at our expense: when "conservative" bankers make profits, they get the benefits; when they are hurt, we pay the costs." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"the iatrogenics is in the patient, not in the treatment. If the patient is close to death, all speculative treatments should be encouraged—no holds barred. Conversely, if the patient is near healthy, then Mother Nature should be the doctor." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"In that sense the description coming from journalism is certainly not just an unrealistic representation of the world but rather the one that can fool you the most by grabbing your attention via your emotional apparatus—the cheapest to deliver sensation. Take" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"matters are far worse: we may have no less of a problem with phony skepticism." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"numeraire" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I've looked in history for heroes who became heroes for what they did not do, but it is hard to observe nonaction; I could not easily find any." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Academia has a tendency, when unchecked (from lack of skin in the game), to evolve into a ritualistic self-referential publishing game." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"So I end this section with a thought. It is quite perplexing that those from whom we have benefited the most aren't those who have tried to help us (say with "advice") but rather those who have actively tried—but eventually failed—to harm us." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Mathematicians think in symbols, physicists in objects, philosophers in concepts, geometers in images, jurists in constructs, logicians in operators, writers in impressions, and idiots in words." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Anything you do to optimize your work, cut some corners, or squeeze more "efficiency" out of it (and out of your life) will eventually make you dislike it. Artisans have their soul in the game. Primo, artisans do things for existential reasons first, financial and commercial ones later. Their decision making is never fully financial, but it remains financial. Secundo, they have some type of "art" in their profession; they stay away from most aspects of industrialization; they combine art and business. Tertio, they put some soul in their work: they would not sell something defective or even of compromised quality because it hurts their pride. Finally, they have sacred taboos, things they would not do even if it markedly increased profitability. Compendiaria res improbitas, virtusque tarda—the villainous takes the short road, virtue the longer one. In other words, cutting corners is dishonest." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Someone with a high public presence who is controversial and takes risks for his opinion is less likely to be a bullshit vendor." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The divergence is evident in that journos worry considerably more about the opinion of other journalists than the judgment of their readers. Compare this to a healthy system, say, that of restaurants. As we saw in Chapter 8, restaurant owners worry about the opinion of their customers, not those of other restaurant owners, which keeps them in check and prevents the business from straying collectively away from its interests." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Mark Buchanan's Ubiquity, Philip Ball's Critical Mass, and Paul Ormerod's Why Most Things Fail." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A squeeze occurs when people have no choice but to do something, and do it right away, regardless of the costs." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Someone who did not find something is providing others with knowledge, the best knowledge, that of absence (what does not work)—yet he gets little or no credit for it." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"the (stated) purpose of science is to get to the truth, not to give you a feeling of organization or make you feel better. We tend to use knowledge as therapy." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We need tricks to get us there but before that we need to accept the fact that we are mere animals in need of lower forms of tricks, not lectures." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"How? Probability is not a mere computation of odds on the dice or more complicated variants; it is the acceptance of the lack of certainty in our knowledge and the development of methods for dealing with our ignorance." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We are fragilizing social and economic systems by denying them stressors and randomness, putting them in the Procrustean bed of cushy and comfortable—but ultimately harmful—modernity." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Our aversion to variability and desire for order, and our acting on those feelings, have helped precipitate severe crises. Making something artificially bigger (instead of letting it die early if it cannot survive stressors) makes it more and more vulnerable to a very severe collapse-as I showed with the Black Swan vulnerability associated with an increase in size." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"One would suppose that people living through the beginning of WWII had an inkling that something momentous was taking place. Not at all.*" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Our tendency to perceive—to impose—narrativity and causality are symptoms of the same disease—dimension reduction." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Frano Barović reading this chapter wrote to me: "Machines: use it and lose it; organisms: use it or lose it." Also note that everything alive needs stressors, but not all machines need to be left alone—a point we will visit in our discussion of annealing. But" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"the studious examination of the past in the greatest of detail does not teach you much about the mind of History; it only gives you the illusion of understanding it." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"had no name for the color blue but managed rather well without it—we stayed for a long part of our history culturally, not biologically, color blind." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Even political systems follow a form of rational tinkering, when people are rational hence take the better option: the Romans got their political system by tinkering, not by "reason." Polybius in his Histories compares the Greek legislator Lycurgus, who constructed his political system while "untaught by adversity," to the more experiential Romans, who, a few centuries later, "have not reached it by any process of reasoning [emphasis mine], but by the discipline of many struggles and troubles, and always choosing the best by the light of the experience gained in disaster." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I noticed that very intelligent and informed persons were at no advantage over cabdrivers in their predictions, but there was a crucial difference. Cabdrivers did not believe that they understood as much as learned people—really, they were not the experts and they knew it. Nobody knew anything, but elite thinkers thought that they knew more than the rest because they were elite thinkers, and if you're a member of the elite, you automatically know more than the nonelite." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"And the Black Swan is what we leave out of simplification." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Let me simplify my take on intervention. To me it is mostly about having a systematic protocol to determine when to intervene and when to leave systems alone. And we may need to intervene to control the iatrogenics of modernity—particularly the large-scale harm to the environment and the concentration of potential (though not yet manifested) damage, the kind of thing we only notice when it is too late. The ideas advanced here are not political, but risk-management based. I do not have a political affiliation or allegiance to a specific party; rather, I am introducing the idea of harm and fragility into the vocabulary so we can formulate appropriate policies to ensure we don't end up blowing up the planet and ourselves." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Many people labor in life under the impression that they are doing something right, yet they may not show solid results for a long time. They need a capacity for continuously adjourned gratification to survive a steady diet of peer cruelty without becoming demoralized." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"cocksure prophet. Where I beg to differ with the great" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The only condition for such brand of more sophisticated rationalism: to believe and act as if one does not have the full story—to be sophisticated you need to accept that you are not so." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It was calculated that actors who win an Oscar tend to live on average about five years longer than their peers who don't." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The hidden benefit of antifragility is that you can guess worse than random and still end up outperforming." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"This simple inability to remember not the true sequence of events but a reconstructed one will make history appear in hindsight to be far more explainable than it actually was—or is." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"...we are too brainwashed by notions of causality and we think that it is smarter to say because than to accept randomness." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"central problem is that birds rarely write more than ornithologists—Combining" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Only the autodidacts are free. And not just in school matters—those who decommoditize, detouristify their lives." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Which brings us to the largest fragilizer of society, and greatest generator of crises, absence of "skin in the game." Some become antifragile at the expense of others by getting the upside (or gains) from volatility, variations, and disorder and exposing others to the downside risks of losses or harm." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"we are made to follow leaders who can gather people together because the advantages of being in groups trump the disadvantages of being alone. It has been more profitable for us to bind together in the wrong direction than to be alone in the right one. Those who have followed the assertive idiot rather than the introspective wise person have passed us some of their genes. This is apparent from a social pathology: psychopaths rally followers. Once" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It is often with the most noble intentions that we do so, as we are pressured to "fix" things, so we often blow them up with our fear of randomness and love of smoothness." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"One single observation can invalidate a general statement derived from millennia of confirmatory sightings of" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A very intelligent group of revolutionary fellows in the United Kingdom created a political movement called the Fabian Society, named after the Cunctator, based on opportunistically delaying the revolution. The society included George Bernard Shaw, H. G. Wells, Leonard and Virginia Woolf, Ramsay MacDonald, and even Bertrand Russell for a moment. In retrospect, it turned out to be a very effective strategy, not so much as a way to achieve their objectives, but rather to accommodate the fact that these objectives are moving targets. Procrastination turned out to be a way to let events take their course and give the activists the chance to change their minds before committing to irreversible policies. And of course members did change their minds after seeing the failures and horrors of Stalinism and similar regimes." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It is the same kind of deep internal disgust that takes hold of me when I see a rich eighty-two-year-old man surrounded with "babes," twentysomething mistresses (often Russian or Ukrainian). I am not here to live forever, as a sick animal. Recall that the antifragility of a system comes from the mortality of its components—and I am part of that larger population called humans. I am here to die a heroic death for the sake of the collective, to produce offspring (and prepare them for life and provide for them), or eventually, books—my information, that is, my genes, the antifragile in me, should be the ones seeking immortality, not me." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"My point taken further is that True and False (hence what we call "belief") play a poor, secondary role in human decisions; it is the payoff from the True and the False that dominates—and it is almost always asymmetric, with one consequence much bigger than the other, i.e., harboring positive and negative asymmetries (fragile or antifragile). Let" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We live to produce information, or improve on it. Nietzsche had the Latin pun aut liberi, aut libri—either children or books, both information that caries through the centuries…I am here to die a heroic death for the sake of the collective, to produce offspring (and prepare them for life and provide for them), or eventually, books, —my information, that is, my genes, the anti-fragile in me, should be the ones seeking immortality, not me. Then say goodbye, have a nice funeral in St. Sergius (Mar Sarkis) in Amioun, and, as the French say, place aux autres—make room for others (p. 370-371)." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"you cannot separate knowledge from contact with the ground. Actually, you cannot separate anything from contact with the ground. And the contact with the real world is done via skin in the game—having an exposure to the real world, and paying a price for its consequences," -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Few understand that procrastination is our natural defense, letting things take care of themselves and exercise their antifragility; it results from some ecological or naturalistic wisdom, and is not always bad—at an existential level, it is my body rebelling against its entrapment." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"domain-specific I mean that our reactions, our mode of thinking, our intuitions, depend on the context in which the matter is presented, what" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"In addition, there seems to be curious evidence of a link between leadership and a form of psychopathology (the sociopath) that encourages the nonblinking, self-confident, insensitive person to rally followers." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Much of modern life is preventable chronic stress injury." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Many people labor in life under the impression that they are doing something right, yet they may not show solid results for a long time. They need a capacity for continuously adjourned gratification to survive a steady diet of peer cruelty without becoming demoralized. They look like idiots to their cousins, they look like idiots to their peers, they need courage to continue. No confirmation comes to them, no validation, no fawning students, no Nobel, no Shnobel. "How was your year?" brings them a small but containable spasm of pain deep inside, since almost all of their years will seem wasted to someone looking at their life from the outside. Then bang, the lumpy event comes that brings the grand vindication. Or it may never come. Believe me, it is tough to deal with the social consequences of the appearance of continuous failure. We are social animals; hell is other people." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A word on the display of emotions. Almost no one can conceal his emotions. Behavioral scientists believe that one of the main reasons why people become leaders is not from what skills they seem to possess, but rather from what extremely superficial impression they make on others through hardly perceptible physical signals—what we call today "charisma," for example. The biology of the phenomenon is now well studied under the subject heading "social emotions." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"What Erasmus called ingratitudo vulgi, the ingratitude of the masses, is increasing in the age of globalization and the Internet." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Silent evidence pervades everything connected to the notion of . By history, I don't mean just those learned-but-dull books in the history section (with Renaissance paintings on their cover to attract buyers). History, I will repeat, is  seen with the effect of . This bias extends to the ascription of factors in the success of ideas and religions, to the illusion of skill in many professions, to success in artistic occupations, to the nature versus nurture debate, to mistakes in using evidence in the court of law, to illusions about the logic of history--and of course, most severely, in our perception of the nature of extreme events." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"What fools call wasting time is most often the best investment." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We react to a piece of information not on its logical merit, but on the basis of which framework surrounds it, and how it registers with our social-emotional system. Logical" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"avoidance of small mistakes makes the large ones more severe." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A civil servant can make rules that are friendly to an industry such as banking—and then go off to J.P. Morgan and recoup a multiple of the difference between his or her current salary and the market rate. (Regulators, you may recall, have an incentive to make rules as complex as possible so their expertise can later be hired at a higher price.)" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"One may have a million ways to explain things, but the true explanation is unique, whether or not it is within our reach." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A complex system, contrary to what people believe, does not require complicated systems and regulations and intricate policies." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Love without sacrifice is like theft." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I believe that the principal asset I need to protect and cultivate is my deep-seated intellectual insecurity." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"While the meetings included traders, that is, people who are judged on their numerical performance, it was mostly a forum for salespeople (people capable of charming customers), and the category of entertainers called Wall Street "economists" or "strategists," who make pronouncements on the fate of the markets, but do not engage in any form of risk taking, thus having their success dependent on rhetoric rather than actually testable facts." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"for decades doctors never suspected that this "useless" tissue might actually have a use that escaped their detection. The" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Patients who spend fifteen minutes every day writing an account of their daily troubles feel indeed better about what has befallen them. You" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"In a system, the sacrifices of some units—fragile units, that is, or people—are often necessary for the well-being of other units or the whole." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I am not here to live forever, as a sick animal. Recall that the antifragility of a system comes from the mortality of its components—and I am part of that larger population called humans. I am here to die a heroic death for the sake of the collective, to produce offspring (and prepare them for life and provide for them), or eventually, books—my information, that is, my genes, the antifragile in me, should be the ones seeking immortality, not me. Then" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"naïve empiricism, we have a natural tendency to look for instances that confirm our story and our vision of the world—these instances are always easy to find. Alas," -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The author cites researcher David Howard's idea of post-traumatic growth. Howard contends that some individuals faced with a traumatic event actually develop new strength." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The overlap between newspapers was so large that you would get less and less information the more you read. Yet everyone was so eager to become familiar with every fact that they read every freshly printed document and listened to every radio station as if the great answer was going to be revealed to them in the next bulletin. People" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A man is morally free when … he judges the world, and judges other men, with uncompromising sincerity." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The Procrustean bed in life consists precisely in simplifying the non-linear and making it linear—the simplification that distorts." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"My best definition of a nerd: someone who asks you to explain an aphorism." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I can find confirmation for just about anything, the" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We grossly overestimate the length of the effect of misfortune on our lives. You think that the loss of your fortune or current position will be devastating, but you are probably wrong. More likely, you will adapt to anything, as you probably did after past misfortunes. You may feel a sting, but it will not be as bad as you expect. This kind of misprediction may have a purpose: to motivate us to perform important acts (like buying new cars or getting rich) and to prevent us from taking certain unnecessary risks. And it is part of a more general problem: we humans are supposed to fool ourselves a little bit here and there. According to Trivers's theory of self-deception, this is supposed to orient us favorably toward the future. But self-deception is not a desirable feature outside of its natural domain. It prevents us from taking some unnecessary risks—but we saw in Chapter 6 how it does not as readily cover a spate of modern risks that we do not fear because they are not vivid, such as investment risks, environmental dangers, or long-term security." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"For the fragile, the cumulative effect of small shocks is smaller than the single effect of an equivalent single large shock." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Now for reasons that have to do with the increase of the artificial, the move away from ancestral and natural models, and the loss in robustness owing to complications in the design of everything, the role of Black Swans in increasing." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"a series of corroborative facts is not necessarily evidence. Seeing" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Further, the random element in trial and error is not quite random, if it is carried out rationally, using error as a source of information. If every trial provides you with information about what does not work, you start zooming in on a solution—so every attempt becomes more valuable, more like an expense than an error. And of course you make discoveries along the way." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Redundancy is ambiguous because it seems like a waste if nothing unusual happens. Except that something unusual happens—usually." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Huet presents arguments against causality that are quite potent—he states, for instance, that any event can have an infinity of possible causes." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Alas, investors and businesses are not paid in probabilities; they are paid in dollars. Accordingly, it is not how likely an event is to happen that matters, it is how much is made when it happens that should be the consideration. How frequent the profit is irrelevant; it is the magnitude of the outcomes that counts." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Per il robusto un errore è informazione, per il debole un errore è solo un errore" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"For the antifragile, shocks bring more benefits (equivalently, less harm) as their intensity increases (up to a point)." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"illusion of local causal chains—that is, confusing catalysts for causes and assuming that one can know which catalyst will produce which effect." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"an erudite can be dissatisfied with his own knowledge, and such dissatisfaction is a wonderful shield against Platonicity, the" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We are the empirical decision makers who hold that uncertainty is our discipline, and that understanding how to act under conditions of incomplete information is the highest and most urgent human pursuit." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We attribute our successes to our skills, and our failures to external events outside our control, namely to randomness. We" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Of course, it is not so easy to "falsify," i.e., to state that something is wrong with full certainty. Imperfections in your testing method may yield a mistaken "no." The doctor discovering cancer cells might have faulty equipment causing optical illusions; or he could be a bell-curve-using economist disguised as a doctor. An eyewitness to a crime might be drunk. But it remains the case that you know what is wrong with a lot more confidence than you know what is right. All pieces of information are not equal in importance. Popper introduced the mechanism of conjectures and refutations, which works as follows: you formulate a (bold) conjecture and you start looking for the observation that would prove you wrong. This is the alternative to our search for confirmatory instances. If you think the task is easy, you will be disappointed—few humans have a natural ability to do this. I confess that I am not one of them; it does not come naturally to me.*" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The best way to prove the arbitrary character of these categories, and the contagion effect they produce, is to remember how frequently these clusters reverse in history. Today's alliance between Christian fundamentalists and the Israeli lobby would certainly seem puzzling to a nineteenth-century intellectual—Christians used to be anti-Semites and Moslems were the protectors of the Jews, whom they preferred to Christians. Libertarians used to be left-wing. What" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"This nationality business helps you make a great story and satisfies your hunger for ascription of causes. It seems to be the dump site where all explanations go until one can ferret out a more obvious one (such as, say, some evolutionary argument that "makes sense"). Indeed," -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It is the system and its fragility, not events, that must be studied—what physicists call "percolation theory," in which the properties of the randomness of the terrain are studied, rather than those of a single element of the terrain." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"If you know all possible conditions of a physical system you can, in theory (though not, as we saw, in practice), project its behavior into the future. But" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The source of the tragic in history is in mistaking someone else's unconditional for conditional—and the reverse." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The important difference between theory and practice lies precisely in the detection of the sequence of events and retaining the sequence in memory. If life is lived forward but remembered backward, as Kierkegaard observed, then books exacerbate this effect—our own memories, learning, and instinct have sequences in them. Someone" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"deeds" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The more you summarize, the more order you put in, the less randomness. Hence the same condition that makes us simplify pushes us to think that the world is less random than it actually is. And" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We glorify those who left their names in history books at the expense of those contributors about whom our books are silent. We humans are not just a superficial race (this may be curable to some extent); we are a very unfair one." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"You want to avoid being disliked without being envied or admired" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"bottom-up political systems, and" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"My idea is that not only are some scientific results useless in real life, because they underestimate the impact of the highly improbable (or lead us to ignore it), but that many of them may be actually creating Black Swans. These" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The situation is even more lopsided with book sales. If I told you that two authors sold a total of a million copies of their books, the most likely combination is 993,000 copies sold for one and 7,000 for the other. This is far more likely than that the books each sold 500,000 copies. For any large total, the breakdown will be more and more asymmetric. Why" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Aside from the non-narrative view of things, another lesson. People with too much smoke and complicated tricks and methods in their brains start missing elementary, very elementary things. Persons in the real world can't afford to miss these things; otherwise they crash the plane. Unlike researchers, they were selected for survival, not complications. So I saw the less is more in action: the more studies, the less obvious elementary but fundamental things become; activity, on the other hand, strips things to their simplest possible model." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We observe old people and see them age, so we associate aging with their loss of muscle mass, bone weakness, loss of mental function, taste for Frank Sinatra music, and similar degenerative effects. But these failures to self-repair come largely from maladjustment—either too few stressors or too little time for recovery between them—and maladjustment for this author is the mismatch between one's design and the structure of the randomness of the environment (what I call more technically its "distributional or statistical properties"). What we observe in "aging" is a combination of maladjustment and senescence, and it appears that the two are separable—senescence might not be avoidable, and should not be avoided (it would contradict the logic of life, as we will see in the next chapter); maladjustment is avoidable. Much of aging comes from a misunderstanding of the effect of comfort—a disease of civilization: make life longer and longer, while people are more and more sick. In a natural environment, people die without aging—or after a very short period of aging. For instance, some markers, such as blood pressure, that tend to worsen over time for moderns do not change over the life of hunter-gatherers until the very end. And this artificial aging comes from stifling internal antifragility." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"we got here by accident does not mean that we should continue to take the same risks." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"And many of the problems of society come from the argument "other people are doing it." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"disconfirming instances are far more powerful in establishing truth. Yet" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"never ask a man if he is from Sparta: If he were, he would have let you know such an important fact—and if he were not, you could hurt his feelings." Likewise, never ask a trader if he is profitable; you can easily see it in his gesture and gait." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Per lo studioso e leader religioso arabo 'Alī ibn Abī Tālib (che non è un mio parente), mantenere le distanze da una persona ignorante equivale a stare in compagnia di un saggio." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"valor." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"There is more money in designing a shoe than in actually making it: Nike, Dell, and Boeing can get paid for just thinking, organizing, and leveraging their know-how and ideas while subcontracted factories in developing countries do the grunt work and engineers in cultured and mathematical states do the noncreative technical grind" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"naïve empiricism—successions of anecdotes selected to fit a story do not constitute evidence. Anyone" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Steve Jobs: «La gente pensa che essere concentrati significhi dire sì alla cosa sulla quale ci si deve focalizzare. Ma non è affatto così. Significa dire no ad altre cento buone idee. Dovete scegliere con cura. Di fatto io sono orgoglioso delle cose che non abbiamo fatto tanto quanto lo sono di quelle che ho fatto. Innovazione significa dire no a mille cose»." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Artificial, man-made mechanical and engineering contraptions with simple responses are complicated, but not "complex," as they don't have interdependencies. You push a button, say, a light switch, and get an exact response, with no possible ambiguity in the consequences, even in Russia. But with complex systems, interdependencies are severe. You need to think in terms of ecology: if you remove a specific animal you disrupt a food chain: its predators will starve and its prey will grow unchecked, causing complications and series of cascading side effects." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Outside of textbooks and casinos, probability almost never presents itself as a mathematical problem or a brain teaser." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"War could cause a rise in oil prices, but not scheduled war—since prices adjust to expectations. It has to be "in the price," as he said. Indeed, on the news of war, oil collapsed from around $39 a barrel to almost half that value, and Tony turned his investment of three hundred thousand into eighteen million dollars. "There are so few occasions in one's life, you can't miss them," he later told Nero during one of their lunches as he was convincing his non–New Jersey friend to bet on a collapse of the financial system. "Good speculative bets come to you, you don't get them by just staying focused on the news." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Light control works; close control leads to overreaction, sometimes causing the machinery to break into pieces. In a famous paper "On Governors," published in 1867, Maxwell modeled the behavior and showed mathematically that tightly controlling the speed of engines leads to instability." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"This, perhaps, is true self-confidence: the ability to look at the world without the need to find signs that stroke one's ego.*" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"cash borrowed from destiny with some random payback time." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The fragility of every startup is necessary for the economy to be antifragile, and that's what makes, among other things, entrepreneurship work: the fragility of individual entrepreneurs and their necessarily high failure rate." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"if something is fragile, its risk of breaking makes anything you do to improve it or make it "efficient" inconsequential unless you first reduce that risk of breaking." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"In his book The Nature of Rationality he gets, as is typical with philosophers, into amateur evolutionary arguments and writes the following: "Since not more than 50 percent of the individuals can be wealthier than average." Of course, more than 50% of individuals can be wealthier than average. Consider that you have a very small number of very poor people and the rest clustering around the middle class. The mean will be lower than the median. Take a population of 10 people, 9 having a net worth of $30,000 and 1 having a net worth of $1,000. The average net worth is $27,100 and 9 out of 10 people will have above average wealth." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"One day in the 1980s I had dinner with a famous speculator, a hugely successful man. He muttered the hyperbole that hit home: "much of what other people know isn't worth knowing." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The very same desire for order, interestingly, applies to scientific pursuits-it is just that, unlike art, the (stated) purpose of science is to get to the truth, not to give you a feeling of organization or make you feel better. We tend to use knowledge as therapy." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The Black Swans we imagine, discuss, and worry about do not resemble those likely to be Black Swans. We worry about the wrong "improbable" events, as" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Serious empirical investigation (largely thanks to one Lant Pritchet, then a World Bank economist) shows no evidence that raising the general level of education raises income at the level of a country. But we know the opposite is true, that wealth leads to the rise of education—not an optical illusion. We" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"narrated Black Swans, those that are present in the current discourse and that you are likely to hear about on television, and" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"In 1960 Taiwan had a much lower literacy rate than the Philippines and half the income per person; today Taiwan has ten times the income. At" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"This book is the synthesis of, on one hand, the no-nonsense practitioner of uncertainty who spent his professional life trying to resist being fooled by randomness and trick the emotions associated with probabilistic outcomes and, on the other, the aesthetically obsessed, literature-loving human being willing to be fooled by any form of nonsense that is polished, refined, original, and tasteful. I am not capable of avoiding being the fool of randomness; what I can do is confine it to where it brings some aesthetic gratification." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Nero believes that risk-conscious hard work and discipline can lead someone to achieve a comfortable life with a very high probability. Beyond that, it is all randomness: either by taking enormous (and unconscious) risks, or by being extraordinarily lucky. Mild success can be explainable by skills and labor. Wild success is attributable to variance." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Being an executive does not require very developed frontal lobes, but rather a combination of charisma, a capacity to sustain boredom, and the ability to shallowly perform on harrying schedules. Add to these tasks the "duty" of attending opera performances" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The tradition has been to think that aging causes bone weakness (bones lose density, become more brittle), as if there was a one-way relationship possibly brought about by hormones (females start experiencing osteoporosis after menopause). It turns out, as shown by Karsenty and others who have since embarked on the line of research, that the reverse is also largely true: loss of bone density and degradation of the health of the bones also causes aging, diabetes, and, for males, loss of fertility and sexual function. We just cannot isolate any causal relationship in a complex system. Further, the story of the bones and the associated misunderstanding of interconnectedness illustrates how lack of stress (here, bones under a weight-bearing load) can cause aging, and how depriving stress-hungry antifragile systems of stressors brings a great deal of fragility which we will transport to political systems in Book II" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Once in a while you encounter members of the human species with so much intellectual superiority that they can change their minds effortlessly." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"By throwing enough words together, some unusual and magical-sounding metaphor is bound to emerge according to the laws of combinatorics." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"positive Black Swans have a necessary first step: you need to be exposed to them. Many people do not realize that they are getting a lucky break in life when they get it. If" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It turned out that the ancients—again, those ancients!—were aware of it: the members of the Athenian assemblies were chosen by lot, a method meant to protect the system from degeneracy. Luckily, this effect has been investigated with modern political systems. In" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Engineers can compute but not define, mathematicians can define but not compute, economists can neither define nor compute." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"In the 1930s, 389 children were presented to New York City doctors; 174 of them were recommended tonsillectomies. The remaining 215 children were again presented to doctors, and 99 were said to need the surgery. When the remaining 116 children were shown to yet a third set of doctors, 52 were recommended the surgery. Note that there is morbidity in 2 to 4 percent of the cases (today, not then, as the risks of surgery were very bad at the time) and that a death occurs in about every 15,000 such operations and you get an idea about the break-even point between medical gains and detriment." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"My biggest problem with the educational system lies precisely in that it forces students to squeeze explanations out of subject matters and shames them for withholding judgment, for uttering the "I don't know." Why did the Cold War end? Why did the Persians lose the battle of Salamis? Why did Hannibal get his behind kicked? Why did Casanova bounce back from hardship? In each of these examples, we are taking a condition, survival, and looking for the explanations, instead of flipping the argument on its head and stating that conditional on such survival, one cannot read that much into the process, and should learn instead to invoke some measure of randomness (randomness, in practice, is what we don't know; to invoke randomness is to plead ignorance)." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Charlatan" was held to be a synonym for empirick. The word "empiric" designated someone who relied on experiment and experience to ascertain what was correct. In other words, trial and error and tinkering. That was held to be inferior—professionally, socially, and intellectually. It is still not considered to be very "intelligent." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Our operation has a mortality rate of 1%. So far we have operated on ninety-nine patients with great success; you are our one hundreth, hence you have a 100% probability of dying on the table." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Our tendency to perceive—to impose—narrativity and causality are symptoms of the same disease—dimension reduction. Moreover, like causality, narrativity has a chronological dimension and leads to the perception of the flow of time. Causality makes time flow in a single direction, and so does narrativity. But memory and the arrow of time can get mixed up. Narrativity can viciously affect the remembrance of past events as follows: we will tend to more easily remember those facts from our past that fit a narrative, while we tend to neglect others that do not appear to play a causal role in that narrative. Consider that we recall events in our memory all the while knowing the answer of what happened subsequently." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"If you think that the inventions we see around us came from someone sitting in a cubicle and concocting them according to a timetable, think again: almost everything of the moment is the product of serendipity." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"One of the methods, called sortes virgilianae (fate as decided by the epic poet Virgil), involved opening Virgil's Aeneid at random and interpreting the line that presented itself as direction for the course of action. You should use such method for every sticky business decision. I will repeat until I get hoarse: the ancients evolved hidden and sophisticated ways and tricks to exploit randomness. For" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"that to understand successes and analyze what caused them, we need to study the traits present in failures." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Out of sight, out of mind: we harbor a natural, even physical, scorn of the abstract." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"As a child of civil war, I disbelieve in structured learning—actually I believe that one can be an intellectual without being a nerd, provided one has a private library instead of a classroom, and spends time as an aimless (but rational) flâneur benefiting from what randomness can give us inside and outside the library. Provided" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"As Yogi Berra said, "In theory there is no difference between theory and practice; in practice there is." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Beware of precise plans by governments. As" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"In general, positive Black Swans take time to show their effect while negative ones happen very quickly—it is much easier and much faster to destroy than to build." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"One conceivable way to discriminate between a scientific intellectual and a literary intellectual is by considering that a scientific intellectual can usually recognize the writing of another but that the literary intellectual would not be able to tell the difference between lines jotted down by a scientist and those by a glib nonscientist." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It is a fallacy that suicide bombers are driven by the promise of a reward of some Islamic paradise with virgins and other entertainment, for, as the anthropologist Scott Atran has pointed out, the first suicide bombers in the Levant were revolutionaries of Greek Orthodox background—my tribe—not Islamists. There is something like a switch in us that kills the individual in favor of the collective when people engage in communal dances, mass riots, or war. Your mood is now that of the herd. You are part of what Elias Canetti calls the rhythmic and throbbing crowd. You can also feel a different variety of crowd experience during your next street riot, when fear of authorities vanishes completely under group fever." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"later—unlike gardeners, who understand rather well that pruning trees strengthens them. Likewise peace—some kind of forced, constrained, non-natural peace—may be costly in lives: just" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It is quite perplexing that those from whom we have benefited the most aren't those who have tried to help us (say with "advice") but rather those who have actively tried—but eventually failed—to harm us." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"sobs" (sanglots). Some days I enter poetic melancholic states, what the Portuguese call saudade or the Turks hüzün (from the Arabic word for sadness). Other days I am more aggressive, have more energy—and will write less, walk more, do other things, argue with researchers, answer emails, draw graphs on blackboards. Should I be turned into a vegetable or a happy imbecile? Had Prozac been available last century, Baudelaire's "spleen," Edgar Allan Poe's moods, the poetry of Sylvia Plath, the lamentations of so many other poets, everything with a soul would have been silenced. … If large pharmaceutical companies were able to eliminate the seasons, they would probably do so—for a profit, of course. There is another danger: in addition to harming children, we are harming society and our future. Measures that aim at reducing variability and swings in the lives of children are also reducing variability and differences within our said to be Great Culturally Globalized Society." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Greenspan's actions were harmful, but even if he knew that, it would have taken a bit of heroic courage to justify inaction in a democracy where the incentive is to always promise a better outcome than the other guy, regardless of the actual, delayed cost." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"narrative fallacy addresses our limited ability to look at sequences of facts without weaving an explanation into them, or, equivalently, forcing a logical link, an arrow of relationship, upon them. Explanations" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"No one in particular is a good predictor of anything. Sorry." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Now I am punished by privilege and comfort—and I can't resist comfort." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Rewriting the history of technology. How, in science, history is rewritten by the losers and how I saw it in my own business and how we can generalize. Does knowledge of biology hurt medicine? Hiding the role of luck. What makes a good entrepreneur?" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Corollary to Moore's Law: every ten years, collective wisdom degrades by half.*" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Actually my father kept hinting to me the problem of getting good grades himself: the person who was at the exact bottom of his class (and ironically, the father of a classmate at Wharton) turned out to be a self-made merchant, by far the most successful person in his class (he had a huge yacht with his initials prominently displayed on it); another one made a killing buying wood in Africa, retired before forty, then became an amateur historian (mostly in ancient Mediterranean history) and entered politics. In" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Antifragile shows how people confuse risk of ruin with variations and fluctuations—a simplification that violates a deeper, more rigorous logic of things." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I wonder why people don't realize the simple truism, that is, the fooled by randomness effect: mistaking the merely associative for the causal, that is, if rich countries are educated, immediately inferring that education makes a country rich, without even checking. Epiphenomenon" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We tend to treat our knowledge as personal property to be protected and defended. It" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"second category, practitioners who, instead of studying future events, try to understand how things react to volatility (but practitioners are usually too busy practitioning to write books, articles, papers, speeches, equations, theories and get honored by Highly Constipated and Honorable Members of Academies). The difference between the two categories is central: as we saw, it is much easier to understand if something is harmed by volatility—hence fragile—than try to forecast harmful events, such as these oversized Black Swans. But only practitioners (or people who do things) tend to spontaneously get the point." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Events that are nonrepeatable are ignored before their occurrence, and overestimated after (for a while). After" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"But the worse touristification is the life we moderns have to lead in captivity, during our leisure hours: Friday night opera, scheduled parties, scheduled laughs. Again, golden jail. This "goal-driven" attitude hurts deeply inside my existential self." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The British government documents, as early as fifty years ago, an aim for education other than the one we have today: raising values, making good citizens, and "learning," not economic growth (they were not suckers at the time)—a point also made by Alison Wolf." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"What the French call "the caviar left," la gauche caviar, or what Anglo-Saxons call champagne socialists, are people who advocate socialism, sometimes even communism, or some political system with sumptuary limitations, while overtly leading a lavish lifestyle, often financed by inheritance—not realizing the contradiction that they want others to avoid just such a lifestyle. It is not too different from the womanizing popes, such as John XII, or the Borgias." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"expositor" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Which brings us to the existential aspect of randomness. If you are not a washing machine or a cuckoo clock—in other words, if you are alive—something deep in your soul likes a certain measure of randomness and disorder." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"extreme event as a starting point and not treat it as an exception to be pushed under the rug." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The best slave is someone who is overpaid and he knows it" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"If there is something in nature you don't understand, odds are it makes sense in a deeper way that is beyond your understanding." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"An insight into how the mechanisms of religion and the transmission of morals obey the same renormalization dynamics as dietary laws—and how we can show that morality is more likely to be something enforced by a minority." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I find it scandalous that in spite of the empirical record we continue to project into the future as if we were good at it, using tools and methods that exclude rare events. Prediction is firmly institutionalized in our world. We are suckers for those who help us navigate uncertainty, whether the fortune-teller or the "well-published" (dull) academics or civil servants using phony mathematics." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Heikot toimivat tarpeidensa mukaan, vahvemmat velvollisuutensa." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"let governments predict (it makes officials feel better about themselves and justifies their existence) but do not set much store by what they say. Remember that the interest of these civil servants is to survive and self-perpetuate—not to get to the truth." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Noi, membrii varietății umane a primatelor, suntem însetați de reguli, deoarece trebuie să reducem dimensiunile problemelor astfel încât acestea să încapă în capul nostru. Sau, din păcate, așa încât să le putem înghesui în cap. Cu cât informația are un grad mai mare de aleatoriu, cu atât dimensiunile sale sunt mai mari și, astfel, mai greu de sintetizat. Cu cât sintetizăm mai mult, cu cât facem mai multă ordine în informație, cu atât este mai puțin aleatorie. Așadar, aceeași condiție care ne face să simplificăm ne împinge să credem că lumea e mai puțin aleatorie decât în realitate." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"For Seneca, the Stoic sage should withdraw from public efforts when unheeded and the state is corrupt beyond repair. It is wiser to wait for self-destruction" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Everything nonstable or breakable has had ample chance to break over time." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The fallacy is that what one may need to know in the real world does not necessarily match what one can perceive through intellect: it doesn't mean that details are not relevant, only that those we tend (IYI-style) to believe are important can distract us from more central attributes of the price mechanism." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Are we so plagued with the narrative fallacy?" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"In fact, the most interesting aspect of evolution is that it only works because of its antifragility; it is in love with stressors, randomness, uncertainty, and disorder—while individual organisms are relatively fragile, the gene pool takes advantage of shocks to enhance its fitness." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The notion of future mixed with chance, not a deterministic extension of your perception of the past, is a mental operation that our mind cannot perform." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"So from this we can see that there is a tension between nature and individual organisms. Everything alive or organic in nature has a finite life and dies eventually—even Methuselah lived less than a thousand years. But it usually dies after reproducing offspring with a genetic code in one way or another different from that of the parents, with their information modified. Methuselah's genetic information is still present in Damascus, Jerusalem, and, of course, Brooklyn, New York. Nature does not find its members very helpful after their reproductive abilities are depleted (except perhaps special situations in which animals live in groups, such as the need for grandmothers in the human and elephant domains to assist others in preparing offspring to take charge). Nature prefers to let the game continue at the informational level, the genetic code. So organisms need to die for nature to be antifragile—nature is opportunistic, ruthless, and selfish." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Needless to say they were usually sleep-deprived. Being an executive does not require very developed frontal lobes, but rather a combination of charisma, a capacity to sustain boredom, and the ability to shallowly perform on harrying schedules." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Înfruntați-vă destinul. M-am obișnuit să rezist tentației de a alerga pentru a-mi respecta orarul. Poate fi un sfat neimportant, dar s-a dovedit valabil. Refuzând să alerg pentru a prinde trenuri, am simțit adevărata valoare a eleganței și a esteticii în comportament, o senzație a deținerii în permanență a controlului asupra timpului, programului și vieții mele. Pierderea trenului este dureroasă doar dacă alergi după el! În mod similar, a nu te potrivi ideii de succes pe care alții îl așteaptă de la tine este ceva dureros doar dacă asta cauți.Dacă faceți asta prin propria alegere, vă situați deasupra luptelor competiționale și a scării sociale, nu în afara acestora. Dacă este decizia dumneavoastră, renunțarea la o poziție bine plătită va părea o răsplată mai bună decât utilitatea banilor despre care este vorba (...). Acesta este primul pas spre o înjurătură stoică aruncată vieții. Aveți mai mult control asupra vieții dumneavoastră dacă decideți de unul singur, pe baza propriilor criterii." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Popper introduced the mechanism of conjectures and refutations, which works as follows: you formulate a (bold) conjecture and you start looking for the observation that would prove you wrong. This is the alternative to our search for confirmatory instances." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Monsieur de Norpois is made to be ashamed of the fact that he expressed a different opinion. Proust did not consider that the diplomat might have changed his mind. We" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Some things benefit from shocks; they thrive and grow when exposed to volatility, randomness, disorder, and stressors and love adventure, risk, and uncertainty. Yet, in spite of the ubiquity of the phenomenon, there is no word for the exact opposite of fragile. Let us call it antifragile. Antifragility is beyond resilience or robustness. The resilient resists shocks and stays the same; the antifragile gets better." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"People with too much smoke and complicated tricks and methods in their brains start missing elementary, very elementary things. Persons in the real world can't afford to miss these things; otherwise they crash the plane. Unlike" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"experiments have shown that players rely on several heuristics. The gaze heuristic is the simplest one and works if the ball is already high up in the air: Fix your gaze on the ball, start running, and adjust your running speed so that the angle of gaze remains constant." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It is the same logic reversal we saw earlier with the value of what we don't know; everybody knows that you need more prevention than treatment, but few reward acts of prevention." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"You can test a given rule either directly, by looking at instances where it works, or indirectly, by focusing on where it does not work. As we saw earlier, disconfirming instances are far more powerful in establishing truth. Yet we tend to not be aware of this property." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"notion of alternative accounting: $ 10 million earned through Russian roulette does not have the same value as $ 10 million earned through the diligent and artful practice of dentistry." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Atât demersurile artistice, cât și cele științifice sunt produsul nevoii noastre de a reduce dimensiunile și de a impune lucrurilor o ordine. Gândiți-vă la lumea din jur, încărcată de trilioane de detalii. Încercați să o descrieți și vă veți da seama că sunteți tentat să țeseți o pânză cu ce spuneți. Un roman, o poveste, un mit sau un basm — toate au aceeași funcție: ne scutesc de complexitatea lumii și ne pun la adăpost de aleatoriul care o guvernează. Miturile fac puțină ordine în dezordinea percepției umane și în „haosul experienței umane" pe care îl percepem." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The theory is the child of the cure, not the opposite—ex cura theoria nascitur." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The more information you give someone, the more hypotheses they will formulate along the way, and the worse off they will be. They see more random noise and mistake it for information." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Anyone who causes harm by forecasting should be treated as either a fool or a lier. Some forecasters cause more damage to society than criminals." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Este mult mai dificil să pierzi într-un joc pe care l-ai pus la punct tu însuți." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"By all means, demand certainty for the next picnic; but avoid government social-security forecasts for the year 2040." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Notice that close to two centuries ago people had an idealized opinion of their own past, just as we have an idealized opinion of today's past." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I am convinced that there exists a tradable security in the Western world that would be 100% correlated with the changes in temperature in Ulan Bator," -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"For a theory is a very dangerous thing to have." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Theories are superfragile; they come and go, then come and go, then come and go again;" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"As shown from the track record of the prophets: before you are proven right, you will be reviled; after you are proven right, you will be hated for a while, or, what's worse, your ideas will appear to be "trivial" thanks to retrospective distortion." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Lucky fools do not bear the slightest suspicion that they may be lucky fools—by definition, they do not know that they belong to such a category" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It is hard to explain to naive data-driven people that risk is in the future, not in the past." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Mathematicians of probability give that a fancy name: ergodicity. It means, roughly, that (under certain conditions) very long sample paths would end up resembling each other. The properties of a very, very long sample path would be similar to the Monte Carlo properties of an average of shorter ones." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"This does not mean we cannot talk about causes; there are ways to escape the narrative fallacy. How? By making conjectures and running experiments, or as we shall see in Part Two (alas) by making testable predictions. The psychology experiments I am discussing here do so: They suggest a problem, and run a test." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The strategy for the discoverers and entrepreneurs is to rely less on top-down planning and focus on maximum tinkering and recognizing opportunities when they present themselves. So I disagree with the followers of Marx and those of Adam Smith: the reason free markets work is because they allow people to be lucky," -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"People can't predict how ong they will be happy with recently acquired objects, how long their marriages will last, how their new jobs will turn out, yet it's subatomic particles that they cite as limits of prediction. They're ignoring a mammoth standing in front of them in favor of matter even a microscope would not allow them to see." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"In fact their strength, as with over-specialized athletes, is the result of a deformity. I thought it was the same with people who were selected for trying to get high grades in a small number of subjects rather than follow their curiosity: try taking them slightly away from what they studied and watch their decomposition, loss of confidence, and denial. (Just like corporate executives are selected for their ability to put up with the boredom of meetings, many of these people were selected for their ability to concentrate on boring material.) I've" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"that there is no evidence of the possibility of large events, i.e., Black Swans. You are likely to confuse that statement, however, particularly if you do not pay close attention, with the statement that there is evidence of no possible Black" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The entire notion of biography is grounded in the arbitrary ascription of a causal relation between specified traits and subsequent events. Now consider the cemetery. The graveyard of failed persons will be full of people who shared the following traits: courage, risk taking, optimism, et cetera. Just like the population of millionaires. There may be some differences in skills, but what truly separates the two is for the most part a single factor: luck. Plain luck." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Our propensity to impose meaning and concepts blocks our awareness of the details making up the concept." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Мы, люди, не просто крайне поверхностны (это еще можно было бы както исправить) — мы очень несправедливы." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"An idea does not survive because it is better than the competition, but rather because the person who holds it has survived! Accordingly," -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"First ethical rule: If you see fraud and do not say fraud, you are a fraud. Just as being nice to the arrogant is no better than being arrogant toward the nice, being accommodating toward anyone committing a nefarious action condones it." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Using the confirmation bias, these people will tell you that religion was horrible for mankind by counting deaths from the Inquisition and various religious wars. But they will not show you how many people were killed by nationalism, social science, and political theory under Stalinism or during the Vietnam War." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"that the Black Swan has three attributes: unpredictability, consequences, and retrospective explainability. Let" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Sanallinen uhka on aidon voimattomuuden sertifikaatti." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"system that overcompensates is necessarily in overshooting mode," -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The best slave is someone you overpay and who knows it, terrified of losing his status." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Мы превозносим тех, чьи имена попали на страницы учебников истории, — за счет тех, чьи достижения прошли мимо историков. Мы," -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Just as a little bit of fire here and there gets rid of the flammable material in a forest, a little bit of harm here and there in an economy weeds out the vulnerable firms early enough to allow them to "fail early" (so they can start again) and minimize the long-term damage to the system." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Being nice counts the most when you are nice to people ignored by others, deprived of attention, or devoid of friends. The rest is largely theater." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Where simplifications fail, causing the most damage, is when something nonlinear is simplified with the linear as a substitute. That is the most common Procrustean bed." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Likewise, an increase in personal performance (regardless of whether it is caused deterministically or by the agency of Lady Fortuna) induces a rise of serotonin in the subject, itself causing an increase of what is commonly called "leadership" ability. One is "on a roll." Some imperceptible changes in deportment, like an ability to express oneself with serenity and confidence, make the subject look credible—as if he truly deserved the shekels. Randomness will be ruled out as a possible factor in the performance, until it rears its head once again and delivers the kick that will induce the downward spiral." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Aside from France, I was baffled by the puzzle of Sweden and other Nordic states, which are often offered as paragons of the large state "that works"—the government represents a large portion of the total economy. How could we have the happiest nation in the world, Denmark (assuming happiness is both measurable and desirable), and a monstrously large state? Is it that these countries are all smaller than the New York metropolitan area? Until my coauthor, the political scientist Mark Blyth, showed me that there, too, was a false narrative: it was almost the same story as in Switzerland (but with a worse climate and no good ski resorts). The state exists as a tax collector, but the money is spent in the communes themselves, directed by the communes—for, say, skills training locally determined as deemed necessary by the community themselves, to respond to private demand for workers. The economic elites have more freedom than in most other democracies—this is far from the statism one can assume from the outside." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"research on happiness shows that those who live under a self-imposed pressure to be optimal in their enjoyment of things suffer a measure of distress." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Engineers tend to develop tools for the pleasure of developing tools, not to induce nature to yield its secrets." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The laser is a prime illustration of a tool made for a given purpose (actually no real purpose) that then found applications that were not even dreamed of at the time. It was a typical "solution looking for a problem." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We can, however, assess regularities by running precise and thorough experiments on how people react under certain conditions, and keep a tally of what we see." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Finally the ancients perfected the method of random draw in more or less difficult situations—and integrated it into divinations. These draws were really meant to pick a random exit without having to make a decision, so one would not have to live with the burden of the consequences later. You went with what the gods told you to do, so you would not have to second-guess yourself later. One of the methods, called sortes virgilianae (fate as decided by the epic poet Virgil), involved opening Virgil's Aeneid at random and interpreting the line that presented itself as direction for the course of action." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I was told that a scientist managed the company and that he had the instinct, as a scientist, to just let scientists look wherever their instinct took them. Commercialization came later." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Many, like the great Roman statesman Cato the Censor, looked at comfort, almost any form of comfort, as a road to waste.1 He did not like it when we had it too easy, as he worried about the weakening of the will." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Joseph Stiglitz, with two colleagues, the Orszag brothers (Peter and Jonathan), looked at the very same Fannie Mae. They assessed, in a report, that "on the basis of historical experience, the risk to the government from a potential default on GSE debt is effectively zero."* Supposedly, they ran simulations—but didn't see the obvious. They also said that the probability of a default was found to be "so small that it is difficult to detect." It is statements like these and, to me, only statements like these (intellectual hubris and the illusion of understanding of rare events) that caused the buildup of these exposures to rare events in the economy. This is the Black Swan problem that I was fighting. This is Fukushima." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The occurrence of a highly improbable event is the equivalent of the nonoccurrence of a highly probable one" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"And when you take risks, insults by half-men (small men, those who don't risk anything) are similar to barks by nonhuman animals: you can't feel insulted by a dog." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Harvard is like a Vuitton bag or a Cartier watch. It is a huge drag on the middle-class parents who have been plowing an increased share of their savings into these institutions, transferring their money to administrators, real estate developers, professors, and other agents. In the United States, we have a buildup of student loans that automatically transfer to these rent extractors. In a way it is no different from racketeering: one needs a decent university "name" to get ahead in life; but we know that collectively society doesn't appear to advance with organized education." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Man-made complex systems tend to develop cascades and runaway chains of reactions that decrease, even eliminate, predictability and cause outsized events." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The central point: had Stiglitz been a businessman with his own money on the line, he would have blown up, terminated. Or had he been in nature, his genes would have been made extinct—so people with such misunderstanding of probability would eventually disappear from our DNA. What I found nauseating was the government hiring one of his coauthors." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"[...] what you see is likely to be less Black Swannish than what you do not see." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We have always been crazy but weren't skilled enough to destroy the world. Now we can." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"If you want to become antifragile, put yourself in the situation "loves mistakes"—to the right of "hates mistakes"—by making these numerous and small in harm. We will call this process and approach the "barbell" strategy." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Undercompensation from the absence of a stressor, inverse hormesis, absence of challenge, degrades the best of the best." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Indeed, our bodies discover probabilities in a very sophisticated manner and assess risks much better than our intellects do. To take one example, risk management professionals look in the past for information on the so-called worst-case scenario and use it to estimate future risks—this method is called "stress testing." They take the worst historical recession, the worst war, the worst historical move in interest rates, or the worst point in unemployment as an exact estimate for the worst future outcome. But they never notice the following inconsistency: this so-called worst-case event, when it happened, exceeded the worst case at the time." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Чем реже событие, тем сложнее им управлять и тем меньше мы знаем о том, как часто оно случается," -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"What they do not have is a large central government, or what the common discourse describes as "the" government— what governs them is entirely bottom-up, municipal of sorts, regional entities called cantons, near-sovereign mini-states united in a confederation. There is plenty of volatility, with enmities between residents that stay at the level of fights over water fountains or other such uninspiring debates. This is not necessarily pleasant, since neighbors are transformed into busybodies— this is a dictatorship from the bottom, not from the top, but a dictatorship nevertheless. But this bottom-up form of dictatorship provides protection against the romanticism of utopias, since no big ideas can be generated in such an unintellectual atmosphere— it suffices to spend some time in cafés in the old section of Geneva, particularly on a Sunday afternoon, to understand that the process is highly unintellectual, devoid of any sense of the grandiose, even downright puny [....]. But the system produces stability— boring stability— at every possible level." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Dacă faci o proiecție pe baza trecutului în mod liniar, continui o tendință. Dar posibilele devieri viitoare de la cursul trecutului sunt infinite." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"via negativa (acting by removing) is more powerful and less error-prone than via positiva (acting by addition" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Not only is it difficult for the journalist to think more like a historian, but it is, alas, the historian who is becoming more like the journalist." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Reverse-engineering problem: It is easier to predict how an ice cube would melt into a puddle than, looking at a puddle, to guess the shape of the ice cube that may have caused it. This "inverse problem" makes narrative disciplines and accounts (such as histories) suspicious." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We do not spontaneously learn that we don't learn that we don't learn." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Remember that for an event to be a Black Swan, it does not just have to be rare, or just wild; it has to be unexpected, has to lie outside our tunnel of possibilities. You must be a sucker for it." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"You need to keep reminding yourself of the obvious: charm lies in the unsaid, the unwritten, and the undisplayed. It takes mastery to control silence.–" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The biotech company seemed to follow implicitly, though not explicitly, Louis Pasteur's adage about creating luck by sheer exposure. "Luck favors the prepared," Pasteur said, and, like all great discoverers, he knew something about accidental discoveries. The best way to get maximal exposure is to keep researching. Collect opportunities—on that, later." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"mundo" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Indeed, people tend to fool themselves with their self-narrative of "national identity," which, in a breakthrough paper in Science by sixty-five authors, was shown to be a total fiction. ("National traits" might be great for movies, they might help a lot with war, but they are Platonic notions that carry no empirical validity—yet, for example, both the English and the non-English erroneously believe in an English "national temperament.")" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Scorn of the abstract: favoring contextualized thinking over more abstract, though more relevant, matters. "The death of one child is a tragedy; the death of a million is a statistic." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"via negativa (acting by removing) is more powerful and less error-prone than via positiva (acting by additionfn1)." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A theory is like medicine (or government): often useless, sometimes necessary, always self-serving, and on occasion lethal. So it needs to be used with care, moderation and close adult supervision." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Have you ever wondered why so many of these straight-A students end up going nowhere in life while someone who lagged behind is now getting the shekels, buying the diamonds, and getting his phone calls returned? Or even getting the Nobel Prize in a real discipline (say, medicine)? Some of this may have something to do with luck in outcomes, but there is this sterile and obscurantist quality that is often associated with classroom knowledge that may get in the way of understanding what's going on in real life." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The World Is Unfair Is the world that unfair? I have spent my entire life studying randomness, practicing randomness, hating randomness. The more that time passes, the worse things seem to me, the more scared I get, the more disgusted I am with Mother Nature. The more I think about my subject, the more I see evidence that the world we have in our minds is different from the one playing outside. Every morning the world appears to me more random than it did the day before, and humans seem to be even more fooled by it than they were the previous day. It is becoming unbearable. I find writing these lines painful; I find the world revolting." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"later legitimized by some type of formalization. The knowledge we get by tinkering, via trial and error, experience, and the workings of time, in other words, contact with the earth, is vastly superior to that obtained through reasoning, something self-serving institutions have been very busy hiding from us." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A good maxim allows you to have the last word without even starting a conversation." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Journalists can teach us how to not learn." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"History and societies do not crawl. They make jumps." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Who gets rewarded, the central banker who avoids a recession or the one who comes to "correct" his predecessors' faults and happens to be there during some economic recovery? Who is more valuable, the politician who avoids a war or the one who starts a new one (and is lucky enough to win)?" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I have two further points to make on this subject. First, justification of overoptimism on grounds that "it brought us here" arises from a far more serious mistake about human nature: the belief that we are built to understand nature and our own nature and that our decisions are, and have been, the result of our own choices. I beg to disagree. So many instincts drive us." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The "tragedy of the commons," as exposed by economists, is as follows—the commons being a collective property, say, a forest or fishing waters or your local public park. Collectively, farmers as a community prefer to avoid overgrazing, and fishermen overfishing—the entire resource becomes thus degraded. But every single individual farmer would personally gain from his own overgrazing or overfishing under, of course, the condition that others don't. And that is what plagues socialism: people's individual interests do not quite work well under collectivism. But it is a critical mistake to think that people can function only under a private property system. What Ostrom found empirically is that there exists a certain community size below which people act as collectivists, protecting the commons, as if the entire unit became rational. Such a commons cannot be too large. It is like a club. Groups behave differently at a different scale. This explains why the municipal is different from the national." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"True, our knowledge does grow, but it is threatened by greater increases in confidence, which make our increase in knowledge at the same time an increase in confusion, ignorance, and conceit." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The fire hydrant experiment was first done in the sixties, and replicated several times since. I have also studied this effect using the mathematics of information: the more detailed knowledge one gets of empirical reality, the more one will see the noise (i.e., the anecdote) and mistake it for actual information. Remember that we are swayed by the sensational. Listening to the news on the radio every hour is far worse for you than reading a weekly magazine, because the longer interval allows information to be filtered a bit." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A life saved is a statistic; a person hurt is an anecdote. Statistics are invisible; anecdotes are salient." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A genius is someone with flaws harder to imitate than his qualities." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"While a ten-year survival rate for a trader is in the single digits, that of a risk manager is close to 100%)." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"How was your year?" brings them a small but containable spasm of pain deep inside, since almost all of their years will seem wasted to someone looking at their life from the outside." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I am never bothered by normal people; it is the bull***tter in the "intellectual" profession who bothers me." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"my wish is for people in general to remain fools of randomness (so I can trade against them), yet for there to remain a minority intelligent enough to value my methods and hire my services." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"What they call play (gym, travel, sports) looks like work; the harder they try, the more captive they are." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I engage in a gambling strategy that has 999 chances in 1,000 of making $ 1 (event A) and 1 chance in 1,000 of losing $ 10,000 (event B), as in Table 6.1. My expectation is a loss of close to $ 9 (obtained by multiplying the probabilities by the corresponding outcomes)." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"lead" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Double a man's erudition; you will halve his citations." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"If you are a Stone Age historical thinker called on to predict the future in a comprehensive report for your chief tribal planner, you must project the invention of the wheel or you will miss pretty much all of the action. Now, if you can prophesy the invention of the wheel, you already know what a wheel looks like, and thus you already know how to build a wheel, so you are already on your way. The Black Swan needs to be predicted!" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"examined the cures from cancer that resulted from a visit to Lourdes in France, where people were healed by simple contact with the holy waters, and found out the interesting fact that, of the total cancer patients who visited the place, the cure rate was, if anything, lower than the statistical one for spontaneous remissions. It was lower than the average for those who did not go to Lourdes! Should a statistician infer here that cancer patients' odds of surviving deteriorates after a visit to Lourdes?" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"This, perhaps, is true self-confidence: the ability to look at the world without the need to find signs that stroke one's ego.fn3" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"we know a lot more what is wrong than what is right," -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Je préférerais être bête et antifragile qu'extrêmement intelligent et fragile, à n'importe quel moment." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Bricolage is a form of trial and error close to tweaking, trying to make do with what you've got by recycling pieces that would be otherwise wasted." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"that strange activity called the business meeting, in which well-fed, but sedentary, men voluntarily restrict their blood circulation with an expensive device called a necktie." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"¿Significa esto que todos deberíamos convertirnos en jugadores durante una temporada, aprovechar la amabilidad que la dama de la fortuna muestra con los que empiezan, y luego parar? La respuesta es no. Se trata de la misma ilusión óptica: quienes empiezan con el juego quizá tengan suerte o quizá no (puesto que el casino juega con ventaja, un número ligeramente superior no tendrá suerte). Los afortunados seguirán jugando, pues creerán que han sido escogidos por el destino; los otros, desanimados, dejarán de hacerlo y no destacarán en la muestra. Probablemente, y según su forma de ser, se dedicarán a la observación de aves, el Scrable, la piratería u otros pasatiempos. Quienes sigan jugando recordarán que en sus inicios la suerte les fue favorable. Los que abandonen, por definición, dejarán de formar parte de la comunidad de jugadores. Esto explica la suerte del principiante." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"If one puts an infinite number of monkeys in front of (strongly built) typewriters, and lets them clap away, there is a certainty that one of them will come out with an exact version of the 'Iliad'. Upon examination, this may be less interesting a concept than it appears at first: Such probability is ridiculously low. But let us carry the reasoning one step beyond. Now that we have found that hero among monkeys, would any reader invest his life's savings on a bet that the monkey would write the 'Odyssey' next?" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"law of iterated expectations, which I outline here in its strong form: if I expect to expect something at some date in the future, then I already expect that something at present." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"you need to know whether you do not like the pursuit of money and wealth because you genuinely do not like it, or because you are rationalizing your inability to be successful at it with the argument that wealth is not a good thing because it is bad for one's digestive system or disturbing for one's sleep or other such arguments." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I don't particularly care about the usual. If you want to get an idea of a friend's temperament, ethics, and personal elegance, you need to look at him under the tests of severe circumstances, not under the regular rosy glow of daily life." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Those who talk about books as commodities are inauthentic, just as those who collect acquaintances can be superficial in their friendships. A novel you like resembles a friend. You read it and reread it, getting to know it better. Like a friend, you accept it the way it is; you do not judge it." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"your happiness depends far more on the number of instances of positive feelings, what psychologists call "positive affect," than on their intensity when they hit. In" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"follows: to understand the future to the point of being able to predict it, you need to incorporate elements from this future itself. If" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"My problem is that I am not rational and I am extremely prone to drown in randomness and to incur emotional torture. I am aware of my need to ruminate on park benches and in cafés away from information, but I can only do so if I am somewhat deprived of it. My sole advantage in life is that I know some of my weaknesses, mostly that I am incapable of taming my emotions facing news and incapable of seeing a performance with a clear head. Silence is far better." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Ricordate questa massima: non sto dicendo che le tecnologie non invecchiano, ma solo che le tecnologie che tendevano a invecchiare sono già morte." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"On the day when we are able to foresee inventions we will be living in a state where everything conceivable has been invented. Our" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The stock exchanges have converted from "open outcry" where wild traders face each other, yelling and screaming as in a souk, then go drink together. Traders were replaced by computers, for very small visible benefits and massively large risks. While errors made by traders are confined and distributed, those made by computerized systems go wild—in August 2010, a computer error made the entire market crash (the "flash crash"); in August 2012, as this manuscript was heading to the printer, the Knight Capital Group had its computer system go wild and cause $10 million dollars of losses a minute, losing $480 million." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It is hard to resist discussion of artificial history without a comment on the father of all pseudothinkers, Hegel. Hegel writes a jargon that is meaningless outside of a chic Left Bank Parisian café or the humanities department of some university extremely well insulated from the real world." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Someone with a linear payoff needs to be right more than 50 percent of the time. Someone with a convex payoff, much less. The hidden benefit of antifragility is that you can guess worse than random and still end up outperforming. Here lies the power of optionality—your function of something is very convex, so you can be wrong and still do fine—the more uncertainty, the better." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The brilliant British mathematician, eccentric, and computer pioneer Alan Turing came up with the following test: A computer can be said to be intelligent if it can (on average) fool a human into mistaking it for another human. The converse should be true. A human can be said to be unintelligent if we can replicate his speech by a computer, which we know is unintelligent, and fool a human into believing that it was written by a human. Can one produce a piece of work that can be largely mistaken for Derrida entirely randomly?" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"But the technology is only trivial retrospectively—not prospectively." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"(a) The more nonlinear, the more the function of something divorces itself from the something. If traffic were linear, then there would be no difference in traffic time between the two following situations: 90,000, then 110,000 cars on the one hand, or 100,000 cars on the other." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Most of the tension in life will take place when the one who reduces and fragilizes (say the policy maker) invokes rationality." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"If you take risks and face your fate with dignity, there is nothing you can do that makes you small; if you don't take risks, there is nothing you can do that makes you grand, nothing." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"He is not you, not a member of your family, so he has no direct emotional loss should your health experience a degradation." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"(b) The more volatile the something—the more uncertainty—the more the function divorces itself from the something. Let us consider the average number of cars again. The function (travel time) depends more on the volatility around the average. Things degrade if there is unevenness of distribution. For the same average you prefer to have 100,000 cars for both time periods; 80,000 then 120,000, would be even worse than 90,000 and 110,000." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The mechanism is a probabilistic method called conditional information: Unless the source of the statement has extremely high qualifications, the statement will be more revealing of the author than the information intended by him." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The best test of whether someone is extremely stupid (or extremely wise) is whether financial and political news makes sense to him." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"(c) If the function is convex (antifragile), then the average of the function of something is going to be higher than the function of the average of something. And the reverse when the function is concave (fragile)." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Le processus de la découverte (ou de l'innovation, ou du progrès technologique) dépend lui-même d'un bricolage antifragile, d'une brusque prise de risques plutôt que d'une culture formelle." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Finally, this explains why people who look too closely at randomness burn out, their emotions drained by the series of pangs they experience. Regardless of what people claim, a negative pang is not offset by a positive one (some psychologists estimate the negative effect for an average loss to be up to 2.5 the magnitude of a positive one); it will lead to an emotional deficit." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"between one-third and one-half of all marriages fail," -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"However, our presence in the sample completely vitiates the computation of the odds." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Nietzsche had the Latin pun aut liberi, aut libri—either children or books, both information that carries through the centuries." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"To see how transfer of antifragility works, consider two scenarios, in which the market does the same thing on average but following different paths. Path 1: market goes up 50 percent, then goes back down to erase all gains. Path 2: market does not move at all. Visibly Path 1, the more volatile, is more profitable to the managers, who can cash in their stock options. So the more jagged the route, the better it is for them. And of course society—here the retirees—has the exact opposite payoff since they finance bankers and chief executives. Retirees get less upside than downside. Society pays for the losses of the bankers, but gets no bonuses from them. If you don't see this transfer of antifragility as theft, you certainly have a problem. What is worse, this system is called "incentive-based" and supposed to correspond to capitalism. Supposedly managers' interests are aligned with those of the shareholders. What incentive? There is upside and no downside, no disincentive at all." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Questo stimolo all'acquisto di cose nuove che sono destinate a perdere le loro caratteristiche di novità, soprattutto se paragonate a quelle ancora più nuove, viene definito effetto tapis roulant (treadmill). Come il lettore può intuire, nasce dalla stessa fonte di bias trattata nel paragrafo precedente (la tendenza a concentrarsi sulle variazioni): notiamo le differenze e ci sentiamo insoddisfatti di alcuni oggetti e tipologie di prodotti. L'effetto tapis roulant è stato studiato da Danny Kahneman e colleghi nel quadro della ricerca sulla psicologia di quelli che chiamano «stati edonici». La gente compra un oggetto nuovo, si sente più soddisfatta e poi, dopo un picco iniziale, torna rapidamente al livello di benessere di base. Perciò, quando «facciamo l'upgrade» sentiamo un picco di soddisfazione dovuto al cambiamento di tecnologia. Ma poi ci abituiamo e cominciamo a cercare affannosamente una nuova cosa nuova." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"... to figure out why ethics, moral obligations, and skills cannot be easily separable in real life, consider the following when you tell someone in a position of responsibility, say your bookkeeper, I trust you. Do you mean that one you trust his ethics?" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"People confuse science and scientists. Science is great, but individual scientists are dangerous. They are human; they are marred by the biases humans have. Perhaps even more. For most scientists are hard-headed, otherwise they would not derive the patience and energy to perform the Herculean tasks asked of them, like spending eighteen hours a day perfecting their doctoral thesis." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Memory is more of a self-serving dynamic revision machine: you remember the last time you remembered the event and, without realizing it, change the story at every subsequent remembrance." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I will only very briefly discuss the crisis of 2008 (which took place after the publication of the book, and which was a lot of things, but not a Black Swan, only the result of fragility in systems built upon ignorance—and denial—of the notion of Black Swan events. You know with near certainty that a plane flown by an incompetent pilot will eventually crash)." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Let me insist that erudition is important to me. It signals genuine intellectual curiosity. It accompanies an open mind and the desire to probe the ideas of others. Above all, an erudite can be dissatisfied with his own knowledge, and such dissatisfaction is a wonderful shield against Platonicity, the simplifications of the five-minute manager, or the philistinism of the overspecialized scholar. Indeed, scholarship without erudition can lead to disasters." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"mi heurística me sugiere que cuanto más pagano sea alguien, más brillante es su mente, y mayor capacidad tiene para gestionar matices y ambigüedades." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"preponderates," -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Above all, an erudite can be dissatisfied with his own knowledge, and such dissatisfaction is a wonderful shield against Platonicity, the simplifications of the five-minute manager, or the philistinism of the overspecialized scholar. Indeed, scholarship without erudition can lead to disasters." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The main idea behind complex systems is that the ensemble behaves in ways not predicted by its components. The interactions matter more than the nature of the units." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"To grasp the difference between Universal and Particular, consider that some dress better to impress a single, specific person than an entire crowd." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"epistemology," -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"... it is hard to disentangle ethics on one hand, from knowledge and competence on the other ..." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The overlap between newspapers was so large that you would get less and less information the more you read. Yet everyone was so eager to become familiar with every fact that they read every freshly printed document and listened to every radio station as if the great answer was going to be revealed to them in the next bulletin." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Another forgotten property of stressors is in language acquisition—I don't know anyone who ever learned to speak his mother tongue in a textbook, starting with grammar and, checked by biquarterly exams, systematically fitting words to the acquired rules." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"what I was given to study in school I have forgotten; what I decided to read on my own, I still remember." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"There is an element of deceit associated with interventionism, accelerating in a professionalized society. It's much easier to sell "Look what I did for you" than "Look what I avoided for you." Of course a bonus system based on "performance" exacerbates the problem." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A private library is not an ego-boosting appendage but a research tool. Read books are far less valuable than unread ones. The library should contain as much of what you do not know as your financial means, mortgage rates, and the currently tight real-estate market allows you to put there. You'll accumulate more knowledge and more books as you grow older, and the growing number of unread books on the shelves will look at you menacingly. Indeed, the more you know, the larger the rows of unread books." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The strength of the computer entrepreneur Steve Jobs was precisely in distrusting market research and focus groups—those based on asking people what they want—and following his own imagination. His modus was that people don't know what they want until you provide them with it." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"An ad hominem attack against an intellectual, not against an idea, is highly flattering. It indicates that the person does not have anything intelligent to say about your message." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"around" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Or take the health category. Adding is on the left, removing to the right. Removing medication, or some other unnatural stressor—say, gluten, fructose, tranquilizers, nail polish, or some such substance—by trial and error is more robust than adding medication, with unknown side effects, unknown in spite of the statements about "evidence" and shmevidence." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Indeed, Georges Simenon, one of the most prolific writers of the twentieth century, only wrote sixty days a year, with three hundred days spent "doing nothing." He published more than two hundred novels." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"There are traps built into any kind of knowledge gained from observation" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I developed the governing impression that our minds are wonderful explanation machines, capable of making sense out of almost anything, capable of mounting explanations for all manner of phenomena, and generally incapable of accepting the idea of unpredictability" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"My being here is a consequential low-probability occurrence, and I tend to forget it." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The Platonic fold is the explosive boundary where the Platonic mind-set enters in contact with messy reality, where the gap between what you know and what you think you know becomes dangerously wide. It is here that the Black Swan is produced." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Contrary to popular belief, these small, seemingly harmless stressors do not strengthen you; they can amputate part of your self." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Scranton showed that we have been building and using jet engines in a completely trial-and-error experiential manner, without anyone truly understanding the theory. Builders" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A theory is like medicine (or government): often useless, sometimes necessary, always self-serving, and on occasion lethal. So it needs to be used with care, moderation, and close adult supervision." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"There is a saying that bad traders divorce their spouse sooner than abandon their positions. Loyalty to ideas is not a good thing for traders, scientists - or anyone." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It is not quite true that the Swiss do not have a government. What they do not have is a large central government, or what the common discourse describes as "the" government— what governs them is entirely bottom-up, municipal of sorts, regional entities called cantons, near-sovereign mini-states united in a confederation. There is plenty of volatility, with enmities between residents that stay at the level of fights over water fountains or other such uninspiring debates. This is not necessarily pleasant, since neighbors are transformed into busybodies— this is a dictatorship from the bottom, not from the top, but a dictatorship nevertheless. But this bottom-up form of dictatorship provides protection against the romanticism of utopias, since no big ideas can be generated in such an unintellectual atmosphere— it suffices to spend some time in cafés in the old section of Geneva, particularly on a Sunday afternoon, to understand that the process is highly unintellectual, devoid of any sense of the grandiose, even downright puny (there is a famous quip about how the greatest accomplishment of the Swiss was inventing the cuckoo clock while other nations produced great works— nice story except that the Swiss did not invent the cuckoo clock). But the system produces stability— boring stability— at every possible level." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Don't tell me what you think: just tell me what's in your portfolio." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Take a population of 10 people, 9 having a net worth of $ 30,000 and 1 having a net worth of $ 1,000. The average net worth is $ 27,100 and 9 out of 10 people will have above average wealth." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We are built to be dupes for theories. But theories come and go; experience stays. Explanations" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"You will never fully convince" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"that in the midst of murders and civil wars, our republic became stronger [and] its citizens infused with virtues.… A little bit of agitation gives resources to souls and what makes the species prosper isn't peace, but freedom." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Recall that the Platonic fold is where our representation of reality ceases to apply—but we do not know it." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"those who are very good at predicting the past will think of themselves as good at predicting the future," -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Innovation is saying no to 1,000 things." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Compromising is condoning. The only modern dictum I follow is one by George Santayana: A man is morally free when … he judges the world, and judges other men, with uncompromising sincerity." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Beauty is enhanced by unashamed irregularities; magnificence by a façade of blunder" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It struck me, a belief that has never left me since, that we are just a great machine for looking backward, and that humans are great at self-delusion." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"When Nero was handed the evaluation form he tore it into small pieces in front of him. He did this very slowly, accentuating the contrast between the nature of the act and the tranquillity with which he tore the paper. The boss watched him blank with fear, eyes popping out of his head. Nero focused on his undramatic, slow-motion act, elated by both the feeling of standing up for his beliefs and the aesthetics of its execution. The combination of elegance and dignity was exhilarating. He knew that he would either be fired or left alone. He was left alone." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We like stories, we like to summarize, and we like to simplify, i.e., to reduce the dimension of matters. The first of the problems of human nature that we examine in this section, the one just illustrated above, is what I call the narrative fallacy. (It is actually a fraud, but, to be more polite, I will call it a fallacy.) The fallacy is associated with our vulnerability to overinterpretation and our predilection for compact stories over raw truths. It severely distorts our mental representation of the world; it is particularly acute when it comes to the rare event." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Black Swan logic makes what you don't know far more relevant than what you do know." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Once your mind is inhabited with a certain view of the world, you will tend to only consider instances proving you to be right. Paradoxically, the more information you have, the more justified you will feel in your views." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"What sounds intelligent in a conversation or a meeting, or, particularly, in the media, is suspicious." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We can also see from the turkey story the mother of all harmful mistakes: mistaking absence of evidence (of harm) for evidence of absence," -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"a system that doesn't have a mechanism of skin in the game, with a buildup of imbalances, will eventually blow up and self-repair that way. If it survives." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Einstein's remark that common sense is nothing but a collection of misconceptions acquired by age eighteen." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"He provides the example of a philosopher who puzzles about the reality of time, but who nonetheless applies for a research grant to work on the philosophical problem of time during next year's sabbatical—without doubting the reality of next year's arrival." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It took us a while to discover that we do effectively think, but that we more readily narrate backward in order to give ourselves the illusion of understanding, and give a cover to our past actions." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"They had all the means to develop a spinning machine, but "nobody tried"—another example of knowledge hampering optionality. They probably needed someone like Steve Jobs—blessed with an absence of college education and the right aggressiveness of temperament—to take the elements to their natural conclusion. As we will see in the next section, it is precisely this type of uninhibited doer who made the Industrial Revolution happen." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A random series will always present some detectable pattern. I" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Bad-mouthing is the only genuine, never faked expression of admiration." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Yet simplicity has been difficult to implement in modern life because it is against the spirit of a certain brand of people who seek sophistication so they can justify their profession. Less is more and usually more effective. Thus I will produce a small number of tricks, directives, and interdicts—how to live in a world we don't understand, or, rather, how to not be afraid to work with things we patently don't understand, and, more principally, in what manner we should work with these. Or, even better, how to dare to look our ignorance in the face and not be ashamed of being human—be aggressively and proudly human. But that may require some structural changes." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"way too many cooks in the same tiny kitchen, most of whom never have to taste the food." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I have always hated employment and the associated dependence on someone else's arbitrary opinion, particularly when much of what's done inside large corporations violates my sense of ethics." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"There were two main sources of technical knowledge and innovation in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries: the hobbyist and the English rector, both of whom were generally in barbell situations." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"... it is about the distortions of symmetry and reciprocity in life: if you have the rewards, you must also get some of the risks— not let others pay the price of your mistakes. If you inflict risk onto others and they are harmed, you need to pay some price for it." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I hope I've sufficiently drilled home the notion that, as a practitioner, my thinking is rooted in the belief that you cannot go from books to problems, but the reverse, from problems to books. This approach incapacitates much of that career-building verbiage. A scholar should not be a library's tool for making another library," -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We have to accept the fuzziness of the familiar "because" no matter how queasy it makes us feel (and it does makes us queasy to remove the analgesic illusion of causality)." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"When a woman says about a man that he is intelligent, she often means handsome; when a man says about a woman that she is dumb, he always means attractive.–What organized dating sites fail to understand is that people are far more interesting in what they don't say about themselves.For company, you often prefer those who find you interesting over those you find interesting." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Hormesis was well known by the ancients (and like the color blue was known but not expressed). But it was only in 1888 that it was first "scientifically" described (though still not given a name) by a German toxicologist, Hugo Schulz, who observed that small doses of poison stimulate the growth of yeast while larger doses cause harm. Some researchers hold that the benefits of vegetables may not be so much in what we call the "vitamins" or some other rationalizing theories (that is, ideas that seem to make sense in narrative form but have not been subjected to rigorous empirical testing), but in the following: plants protect themselves from harm and fend off predators with poisonous substances that, ingested by us in the right quantities, may stimulate our organisms—or so goes the story. Again, limited, low-dose poisoning triggers healthy benefits." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Missing a train is only painful if you run after it! Likewise, not matching the idea of success others expect from you is only painful if that's what you are seeking. You stand above the rat race and the pecking order, not outside of it, if you do so by choice." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Clearly, binary outcomes are not very prevalent in life; they mostly exist in laboratory experiments and in research papers. In life, payoffs are usually open-ended, or, at least, variable." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It was a few years after the beginning of the Lebanese war, as I was attending the Wharton School, at the age of twenty-two, that I was hit with the idea of efficient markets—an idea that holds that there is no way to derive profits from traded securities since these instruments have automatically incorporated all the available information. Public information can therefore be useless, particularly to a businessman, since prices can already "include" all such information, and news shared with millions gives you no real advantage. Odds are that one or more of the hundreds of millions of other readers of such information will already have bought the security, thus pushing up the price. I then completely gave up reading newspapers and watching television, which freed up a considerable amount of time (say one hour or more a day, enough time to read more than a hundred additional books per year, which, after a couple of decades, starts mounting). But this argument was not quite the entire reason for my dictum in this book to avoid the newspapers, as we will see further benefits in avoiding the toxicity of information. It was initially a great excuse to avoid keeping up with the minutiae of business, a perfect alibi since I found nothing interesting about the details of the business world—inelegant, dull, pompous, greedy, unintellectual, selfish, and boring." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"And of course you learn from the errors of others. You may never know what type of person someone is unless they are given opportunities to violate moral or ethical codes." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Many claim that caloric restriction (permanent or episodic) activates healthy reactions and switches that, among other benefits, lengthen life expectancy in laboratory animals. We humans live too long for researchers to test if such restriction increases our life expectancy (if the hypothesis is true, then the subjects of the test would outlive the researchers). But it looks like such restriction makes humans healthier (and may also improve their sense of humor). But since abundance would bring the opposite effect, this episodic caloric restriction can be also interpreted as follows: too much regular food is bad for you, and depriving humans of the stressor of hunger may make them live less than their full potential; so all hormesis seems to be doing is reestablishing the natural dosage for food and hunger in humans. In other words, hormesis is the norm, and its absence is what hurts us." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"But simplicity is not so simple to attain. Steve Jobs figured out that "you have to work hard to get your thinking clean to make it simple." The Arabs have an expression for trenchant prose: no skill to understand it, mastery to write it. Heuristics" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Success brings an asymmetry: you now have a lot more to lose than to gain. You are hence fragile. Let us return to the story of Damocles' sword. There is no good news in store, just plenty of bad news in the pipeline. When you become rich, the pain of losing your fortune exceeds the emotional gain of getting additional wealth, so you start living under continuous emotional threat. A rich person becomes trapped by belongings that take control of him, degrading his sleep at night, raising the serum concentration of his stress hormones, diminishing his sense of humor, perhaps even causing hair to grow on the tip of his nose and similar ailments. Seneca fathomed that possessions make us worry about downside, thus acting as a punishment as we depend on them. All downside, no upside. Even more: dependence on circumstances—rather, the emotions that arise from circumstances—induces a form of slavery." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"When you don't have debt you don't care about your reputation in economics circles—and somehow it is only when you don't care about your reputation that you tend to have a good one. Just as in matters of seduction, people lend the most to those who need them the least." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Yet there may not be a visible because; to the contrary, frequently there is nothing, not even a spectrum of possible explanations." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The future ain't what it used to be," Berra" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Further, the problem is not just that Mithridatization and hormesis can be known in (some) medical circles and missed in other applications such as socioeconomic life. Even within medicine, some get it here and miss it there. The same doctor might recommend exercise so you "get tougher," and a few minutes later write a prescription for antibiotics in response to a trivial infection so you "don't get sick." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"it did not so much judge the quality of a trader's performance as encourage him to game the system by working for short-term profits at the expense of possible blowups—like" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The beast in this book is not just the bell curve and the self-deceiving statistician, nor the Platonified scholar who needs theories to fool himself with. It is the drive to "focus" on what makes sense to us. Living on our planet, today, requires a lot more imagination than we are made to have. We lack imagination and repress it in others." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We expect places and products to be less attractive than in marketing brochures, but we never forgive humans for being worse than their first impressions" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"is much easier to understand if something is harmed by volatility—hence fragile—than try to forecast harmful events, such as these oversized Black Swans. But only practitioners (or people who do things) tend to spontaneously get the point." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I had a vivid illustration of domain dependence in the driveway of a hotel in the pseudocity of Dubai. A fellow who looked like a banker had a uniformed porter carry his luggage (I can instantly tell if someone is a certain type of banker with minimal cues as I have physical allergies to them, even affecting my breathing). About fifteen minutes later I saw the banker lifting free weights at the gym, trying to replicate natural exercises using kettlebells as if he were swinging a suitcase. Domain dependence is pervasive." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"to avoid dullness may help to filter out the nonessential.)" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I disbelieve in structured learning—actually I believe that one can be an intellectual without being a nerd, provided one has a private library instead of a classroom," -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The French thinker and poet Paul Valery was surprised to listen to a commentary of his poems that found meanings that had until then escaped him (of course, it was pointed out to him that these were intended by his subconscious)." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Since procrastination is a message from our natural willpower via low motivation, the cure is changing the environment, or one's profession, by selecting one in which one does not have to fight one's impulses." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"If you find any reason why you and someone are friends, you are not friends." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"absence of evidence is not evidence of absence, a simple point that has the following implications: for the antifragile, good news tends to be absent from past data, and for" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We scorn the abstract; we scorn it with passion." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"simplicity has been difficult to implement in modern life because it is against the spirit of a certain brand of people who seek sophistication so they can justify their profession." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It is also naïve empiricism to provide, in support of some argument, series of eloquent confirmatory quotes by dead authorities. By searching, you can always find someone who made a well-sounding statement that confirms your point of view—and, on every topic, it is possible to find another dead thinker who said the exact opposite. Almost all of my non–Yogi Berra quotes are from people I disagree with." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"dignity is worth nothing unless you earn it, unless you are willing to pay a price for it." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A prophet is not someone who first had an idea. He is the one to first believe in it and take it to its conclusion." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Education has benefits aside from stabilizing family incomes. Education makes individuals more polished dinner partners, for instance, something non-negligible. But the idea of educating people to improve the economy is rather novel. The British government documents, as early as fifty years ago, an aim for education other than the one we have today: raising values, making good citizens, and "learning," not economic growth (they were not suckers at the time)—a point also made by Alison Wolf. Likewise, in ancient times, learning was for learning's sake, to make someone a good person, worth talking to, not to increase the stock of gold in the city's heavily guarded coffers. Entrepreneurs," -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Aside from the movies, examples of positive-Black Swan businesses are: some segments of publishing, scientific research, and venture capital. In these businesses, you lose small to make big. You have little to lose per book and, for completely unexpected reasons, any given book might take off. The downside is small and easily controlled. The problem with publishers, of course, is that they regularly pay up for books, thus making their upside rather limited and their downside monstrous. (If you pay $10 million for a book, your Black Swan is it not being a bestseller.) Likewise, while technology can carry a great payoff, paying for the hyped-up story, as people did with the dot-com bubble, can make any upside limited and any downside huge. It is the venture capitalist who invested in a speculative company and sold his stake to unimaginative investors who is the beneficiary of the Black Swan, not the me, too investors." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"He dicho que el Cisne Negro tiene tres atributos: la impredecibilidad, las consecuencias y la explicabilidad retrospectiva. Examinemos eso de la impredecibilidad.*" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Experience is devoid of the cherry-picking that we find in studies, particularly those called "observational," ones in which the researcher finds past patterns, and, thanks to the sheer amount of data, can therefore fall into the trap of an invented narrative." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"An American ship carrying mustard gas off Bari in Italy was bombed by the Germans 1942. It helped develop chemotherapy owing to the effect of the gas on the condition of the soldiers who had liquid cancers (eradication of white blood cells). But" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I did not feel ill, Symmache; now I do (after your ministrations)." (Non habui febrem, Symmache, nunc habeo)." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Life's beauty: the kindest act toward you in your life may come from an outsider not interested in reciprocation." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Popper introduced the mechanism of conjectures and refutations, which works as follows: you formulate a (bold) conjecture and you start looking for the observation that would prove you wrong. This is the alternative to our search for confirmatory instances. If you think the task is easy, you will be disappointed—few humans have a natural ability to do this. I confess that I am not one of them; it does not come naturally to me.fn2" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Whenever your survival is in play, don't immediately look for causes and effects." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"What is surprising is not the magnitude of our forecast errors, but our absence of awareness of it." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Pero las ventas de un libro o la magnitud de los sucesos sociales no siguen este tipo de restricciones. Cuesta mucho más de mil días aceptar que un escritor carece de talento, que no se producirá un crac en la Bolsa, que no estallará una guerra, que un proyecto no tiene futuro, que un país es «nuestro aliado», que una empresa no entrará en bancarrota, que el analista de seguridad de una agencia de Bolsa no es un charlatán, o que un vecino no nos atacará. En el lejano pasado, los seres humanos podían hacer inferencias con mucha mayor precisión y rapidez." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Modernity has replaced ethics with legalese, and the law can be gamed with a good lawyer. So I will expose the transfer of fragility, or rather the theft of antifragility, by people "arbitraging" the system. These people will be named by name. Poets and painters are free, liberi poetae et pictores, and there are severe moral imperatives that come with such freedom. First ethical rule: If you see fraud and do not say fraud, you are a fraud." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It is as if we are doomed to be deceived by the most superficial part of things, the packaging, the gift wrapping. This is why we don't see antifragility in places that are obvious, too obvious. It is not part of the accepted way of thinking about success, economic growth, or innovation that these may result only from overcompensation against stressors. Nor do we see this overcompensation at work elsewhere. (And domain dependence is also why it has been difficult for many researchers to realize that uncertainty, incomplete understanding, disorder, and volatility are members of the same close family.)" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Being an executive does not require very developed frontal lobes, but rather a combination of charisma, a capacity to sustain boredom, and the ability to shallowly perform on harrying schedules. Add to these tasks the "duty" of attending opera performances. The" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I realized that if I were to start writing about the events later they would seem more … historical. There was a difference between the before and the after." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"In a famous argument, the logician W. V. Quine showed that there exist families of logically consistent interpretations and theories that can match a given series of facts. Such insight should warn us that mere absence of nonsense may not be sufficient to make something true." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"My biggest problem with the educational system lies precisely in that it forces students to squeeze explanations out of subject matters and shames them for withholding judgment, for uttering the "I don't know." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"the worst pain inflicted on you will come from someone who at some point in your life cared about you." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Compromising is condoning. The only modern dictum I follow is one by George Santayana: A man is morally free when … he judges the world, and judges other men, with uncompromising sincerity. This is not just an aim but an obligation." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"called the lending rate, the interest rate in the economy (and has proved to be good at it). The libertarian presidential candidate Ron Paul was called a crank for suggesting the abolition of the Federal Reserve, or even restricting its role. But he would also have been called a crank for suggesting the creation of an agency to control other prices." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"People don't walk around with anti-résumés telling you what they have not studied or experienced (it's the job of their competitors to do that), but it would be nice if they did." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"On a folded piece of paper, in turn, each one of them would write a predetermined part of a sentence, not knowing the others' choice. The first would pick an adjective, the second a noun, the third a verb, the fourth an adjective, and the fifth a noun. The first publicized exercise of such random (and collective) arrangement produced the following poetic sentence: The exquisite cadavers shall drink the new wine. (Les cadavres exquis boiront le vin nouveau.) Impressive? It sounds even more poetic in the native French. Quite impressive poetry has been produced in such a manner, sometimes with the aid of a computer." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Ainoa asia, jota onnetar ei säätele, on käyttäytymiseni." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I would not be the first to say that this optimization set back social science by reducing it from the intellectual and reflective discipline that it was becoming to an attempt at an "exact science." By "exact science," I mean a second-rate engineering problem for those who want to pretend that they are in the physics department—so-called physics envy. In other words, an intellectual fraud." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"the Black Swan is what we leave out of simplification." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"While we have a highly unstable memory, a diary provides indelible facts recorded more or less immediately; it thus allows the fixation of an unrevised perception and enables us to later study events in their own context." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"(randomness, in practice, is what we don't know; to invoke randomness is to plead ignorance)." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"la acción del Cisne Negro se sitúa en Extremistán, no es más que una mera aproximación; les ruego que no la platonifiquen, no la simplifiquemos más de lo que sea necesario." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"...my classical values make me advocate the triplet of erudition, elegance, and courage; against modernity's phoniness, nerdiness, and philistinism..." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I wanted to become a flaneur, a professional meditator, sit in cafes, lounge, unglued to desks and organization structures, sleep as long as I needed, read voraciously, and not owe any explanation to anybody. I wanted to be left alone in order to build, small steps at a time, an entire system of thought based on my Black Swan idea" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We are most motivated to help those who need us the least.–" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"There is actually a law in statistics called the law of iterated expectations, which I outline here in its strong form: if I expect to expect something at some date in the future, then I already expect that something at present." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"In the end this is a trivial decision making rule: I am very aggressive when I can gain exposure to positive Black Swans -- when a failure would be of small moment -- and very conservative when I am under threat from a negative Black Swan. I am very aggressive when an error in a model can benefit me, and paranoid when an error can hurt." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A Solution Waiting for a Problem Engineers tend to develop tools for the pleasure of developing tools, not to induce nature to yield its secrets. It so happens that some of these tools bring us more knowledge; because of the silent evidence effect, we forget to consider tools that accomplished nothing but keeping engineers off the streets. Tools lead to unexpected discoveries, which themselves lead to other unexpected discoveries. But rarely do our tools seem to work as intended; it is only the engineer's gusto and love for the building of toys and machines that contribute to the augmentation of our knowledge. Knowledge does not progress from tools designed to verify or help theories, but rather the opposite. The computer was not built to allow us to develop new, visual, geometric mathematics, but for some other purpose. It happened to allow us to discover mathematical objects that few cared to look for. Nor was the computer invented to let you chat with your friends in Siberia, but it has caused some long-distance relationships to bloom. As an essayist, I can attest that the Internet has helped me to spread my ideas by bypassing journalists. But this was not the stated purpose of its military designer. The laser is a prime illustration of a tool made for a given purpose (actually no real purpose) that then found applications that were not even dreamed of at the time. It was a typical "solution looking for a problem." Among the early applications was the surgical stitching of detached retinas. Half a century later, The Economist asked Charles Townes, the alleged inventor of the laser, if he had had retinas on his mind. He had not. He was satisfying his desire to split light beams, and that was that. In fact, Townes's colleagues teased him quite a bit about the irrelevance of his discovery. Yet just consider the effects of the laser in the world around you: compact disks, eyesight corrections, microsurgery, data storage and retrieval—all unforeseen applications of the technology.* We build toys. Some of those toys change the world. Keep" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"My son, I am very disappointed in you," he said. "I never hear anything wrong said about you. You have proven yourself incapable of generating envy." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"To value a person, consider the difference between how impressive he or she was at the first encounter and the most recent one." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We, members of the human variety of primates, have a hunger for rules because we need to reduce the dimension of matters so they can get into our heads. Or, rather, sadly, so we can squeeze them into our heads. The more random information is, the greater the dimensionality, and thus the more difficult to summarize. The more you summarize, the more order you put in, the less randomness. Hence the same condition that makes us simplify pushes us to think that the world is less random than it actually is." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"One needs to go out and buy a lottery ticket in order to win. Does it mean that the work involved in the trip to the store caused the winning?" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"In the United States, we have a buildup of student loans that automatically transfer to these rent extractors. In a way it is no different from racketeering: one needs a decent university "name" to get ahead in life; but we know that collectively society doesn't appear to advance with organized education." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The overlap between newspapers was so large that you would get less and less information the more you read. Yet everyone was so eager to become familiar with every fact that they read every freshly printed document and listened to every radio station as if the great answer was going to be revealed to them in the next bulletin. People became encyclopedias of who had met with whom and which politician said what to which other politician (and with what tone of voice: "Was he more friendly than usual?"). Yet to no avail." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"traders and salespeople were only manageable when they were unprofitable, in which case they weren't wanted." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"you need a story to replace a story" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A very rarely discussed property of data: it is toxic in large quantities" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The scientific association with a big idea, the "brand name," goes to the one who connects the dots, not the one who makes a casual observation—even Charles Darwin, who uncultured scientists claim "invented" the survival of the fittest, was not the first to mention it." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"(Independence is person-specific: I have always been taken aback at the high number of people in whom an astonishingly high income led to additional sycophancy as they became more dependent on their clients and employers and more addicted to making even more money.)" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Clearly you cannot manufacture more information than the past can deliver; if you buy one hundred copies of The New York Times, I am not too certain that it would help you gain incremental knowledge of the future. We just don't know how much information there is in the past." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We have the illusion that the world functions thanks to programmed design, university research, and bureaucratic funding, but there is compelling—very compelling—evidence to show that this is an illusion, the illusion I call lecturing birds how to fly." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"it is contagion that determines the fate of a theory in social science, not its validity." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Yet simplicity has been difficult to implement in modern life because it is against the spirit of a certain brand of people who seek sophistication so they can justify their profession. Less is more and usually more effective." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"So I stayed in the quant and trading businesses (I'm still there), but organized myself to do minimal but intense (and entertaining) work, focus only on the most technical aspects, never attend business "meetings," avoid the company of "achievers" and people in suits who don't read books, and take a sabbatical year for every three on average to fill up gaps in my scientific and philosophical culture. To slowly distill my single idea, I wanted to become a flâneur, a professional meditator, sit in cafés, lounge, unglued to desks and organization structures, sleep as long as I needed, read voraciously, and not owe any explanation to anybody. I wanted to be left alone in order to build, small steps at a time, an entire system of thought based on my Black Swan idea." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We have always been crazy but weren't skilled enough to destroy the world. Now we can." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The problem with experts is that they do not know what they do not know. Lack of knowledge and delusion about the quality of your knowledge come together—the same process that makes you know less also makes you satisfied with your knowledge." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Economics Schmeconomics. It is all market dynamics" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Stalin could not have existed in a municipality." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Koulutus tekee viisaasta hieman viisaamman, mutta hölmöstä valtavasti vaarallisemman." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"not matching the idea of success others expect from you is only painful if that's what you are seeking." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We know with much more clarity what is bad than what is good." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I write only if I feel like it and only on a subject I feel like writing about - and the reader is no fool. So I use procrastination as a message from my inner self and my deep evolutionary past to resist interventionism in my writing.Yet some psychologists and behavioral economists seem to think that procrastination is a disease to be remedied and cured." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The entire notion of biography is grounded in the arbitrary ascription of a causal relation between specified traits and subsequent events. Now" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Seeing the psychologist Steven Pinker making pronouncements about things intellectual has a similar effect to encountering a drive-in Burger King while hiking in the middle of a national park. It is under such an oversensitive bull***t detector that I have been writing this book." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"the richer we become, the harder it gets to live within our means. Abundance is harder for us to handle than scarcity." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The reference point argument is as follows: do not compute odds from the vantage point of the winning gambler (or the lucky Casanova, or the endlessly bouncing back New York City, or the invincible Carthage), but from all those who started in the cohort. Consider once again the example of the gambler. If you look at the population of beginning gamblers taken as a whole, you can be close to certain that one of them (but you do not know in advance which one) will show stellar results just by luck. So, from the reference point of the beginning cohort, this is not a big deal. But from the reference point of the winner (and, who does not, and this is key, take the losers into account), a long string of wins will appear to be too extraordinary an occurrence to be explained by luck. Note that a "history" is just a series of numbers through time. The numbers can represent degrees of wealth, fitness, weight, anything." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"But simplicity is not so simple to attain. Steve Jobs figured out that "you have to work hard to get your thinking clean to make it simple." The Arabs have an expression for trenchant prose: no skill to understand it, mastery to write it." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The ethical is always more robust than the legal. Over time, it is the legal that should converge to the ethical, never the reverse. Laws come and go; ethics stay." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Or, if I have to work, I find it preferable (and less painful) to work intensely for very short hours, then do nothing for the rest of the time (assuming doing nothing is really doing nothing), until I recover completely and look forward to a repetition, rather than being subjected to the tedium of Japanese style low-intensity interminable office hours with sleep deprivation. Main course and dessert are separate." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"By the mechanism of retrospective determinism we will find the "cause"—actually," -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"To see how transfer of antifragility works, consider two scenarios, in which the market does the same thing on average but following different paths. Path 1: market goes up 50 percent, then goes back down to erase all gains. Path 2: market does not move at all. Visibly Path 1, the more volatile, is more profitable to the managers, who can cash in their stock options. So the more jagged the route, the better it is for them. And of course society—here the retirees—has the exact opposite payoff since they finance bankers and chief executives. Retirees get less upside than downside. Society pays for the losses of the bankers, but gets no bonuses from them. If you don't see this transfer of antifragility as theft, you certainly have a problem." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Now, when you read material by finance professors, finance gurus, or your local bank making investment recommendations based on the long-term returns of the market, beware. Even if their forecasts were true (they aren't), no individual can get the same returns as the market unless he has infinite pockets and no uncle points." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Read nothing from the past one hundred years; eat no fruits from the past one thousand years; drink nothing from the past four thousand years (just wine and water); but talk to no ordinary man over forty. A man without a heroic bent starts dying at the age of thirty." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"If you hear a "prominent" economist using the word equilibrium , or normal distribution , do not argue with him; just ignore him, or try to put a rat down his shirt." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Read books are far less valuable than unread ones. The library should contain as much of what you do not know as your financial means, mortgage rates, and the currently tight real-estate market allow you to put there. You will accumulate more knowledge and more books as you grow older, and the growing number of unread books on the shelves will look at you menacingly. Indeed, the more you know, the larger the rows of unread books. Let us call this collection of unread books an antilibrary." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Half the people lie with their lips; the other half with their tears." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Además, en los países donde la riqueza se obtiene a través de la manipulación o explotación del entorno político o económico, sea por la vía del patrocinio o por la de la imposición de regulaciones (recuerdo al lector que los poderosos y los que forman parte del sistema se sirven de las regulaciones para engañar a la gente, y del papeleo para ralentizar la competencia), la riqueza, decíamos, se plantea como una suma cero.* Lo que una persona obtiene se le ha quitado a otra. El que se enriquece lo hace a costa de los demás. En cambio, en los países donde la riqueza puede proceder de la destrucción del contrario, como por ejemplo Estados Unidos, es fácil comprobar que alguien puede enriquecerse sin necesidad de habernos sacado un solo dólar de la cartera; incluso es probable que introduzca en ella unos cuantos dólares más. A fin de cuentas, la desigualdad es, por definición, una suma cero." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"One of the problems I face in life is that whenever I tell people that the Gaussian bell curve is not ubiquitous in real life, only in the minds of statisticians, they require me to "prove it"—which is easy to do, as we will see in the next two chapters, yet nobody has managed to prove the opposite" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"What do the popular expressions "a swimmer's body" and "beginner's luck" have in common? What do they seem to share with the concept of history? There is a belief among gamblers that beginners are almost always lucky. "It gets worse later, but gamblers are always lucky when they start out," you hear. This statement is actually empirically true: researchers confirm that gamblers have lucky beginnings (the same applies to stock market speculators). Does this mean that each one of us should become a gambler for a while, take advantage of lady luck's friendliness to beginners, then stop? The answer is no. The same optical illusion prevails: those who start gambling will be either lucky or unlucky (given that the casino has the advantage, a slightly greater number will be unlucky). The lucky ones, with the feeling of having been selected by destiny, will continue gambling; the others, discouraged, will stop and will not show up in the sample. They will probably take up, depending on their temperaments, bird-watching, Scrabble, piracy, or other pastimes. Those who continue gambling will remember having been lucky as beginners. The dropouts, by definition, will no longer be part of the surviving gamblers' community. This explains beginner's luck." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The implication is that we feel emotions (limbic brain) then find an explanation (neocortex). As" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"My experience is that money and transactions purify relations; ideas and abstract matters like "recognition" and "credit" warp them, creating an atmosphere of perpetual rivalry. I grew to find people greedy for credentials nauseating, repulsive, and untrustworthy." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The biologist and intellectual E. O. Wilson was once asked what represented the most hindrance to the development of children; his answer was the soccer mom [helicopter parent]….They try to eliminate the trial and error from children's lives and transform them into nerds working on preexisting (parent-compatible) maps of reality. They are good students, but nerds--that is, they are like computers, except slower. Further, they are totally untrained to handle ambiguity….Provided we have the right type of rigor, we need randomness, mess, adventures, uncertainty, self-discovery, near-traumatic episodes, all those things that make life worth living." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I figured out that whatever I selected myself I could read with more depth and more breadth—there was a match to my curiosity." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Our inability to predict in environments subjected to the Black Swan, coupled with a general lack of the awareness of this state of affairs, means that certain professionals, while believing they are experts, are in fact not. Based on their empirical record, they do not know more about their subject matter than the general population, but they are much better at narrating—or, worse, at smoking you with complicated mathematical models. They are also more likely to wear a tie." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"At the limit, you can decide whether to be (relatively) poor, but free of your time, or rich but as dependent as a slave." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Traders, when they make profits, have short communications; when they lose they drown you in details, theories, and charts." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Accidentul pozitiv (ca în cazul medicamentului pentru hipertensiune care a produs beneficii colaterale ce au condus apoi la Viagra) a reprezentat metoda centrală a empiriștilor în descoperirea medicală.Aceeași idee poate fi generalizată în cazul vieții: profitați la maxim de întâmplările fericite din jur." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"the reason free markets work is because they allow people to be lucky, thanks to aggressive trial and error, not by giving rewards or "incentives" for skill." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It does not mean that one's personal experiences constitute a sufficient sample to derive a conclusion about an idea; it is just that one's personal experience gives the stamp of authenticity and sincerity of opinion. Experience is devoid of the cherry-picking that we find in studies, particularly those called "observational," ones in which the researcher finds past patterns, and, thanks to the sheer amount of data, can therefore fall into the trap of an invented narrative. Further, in writing, I feel corrupt and unethical if I have to look up a subject in a library as part of the writing itself. This acts as a filter—it is the only filter. If the subject is not interesting enough for me to look it up independently, for my own curiosity or purposes, and I have not done so before, then I should not be writing about it at all, period. It does not mean that libraries (physical and virtual) are not acceptable; it means that they should not be the source of any idea. Students pay to write essays on topics for which they have to derive knowledge from a library as a self-enhancement exercise; a professional who is compensated to write and is taken seriously by others should use a more potent filter. Only distilled ideas, ones that sit in us for a long time, are acceptable—and those that come from reality." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It was calculated that actors who win an Oscar tend to live on average about five years longer than their peers who don't. People live longer in societies that have flatter social gradients. Winners kill their peers as those in a steep social gradient live shorter lives, regardless of their economic condition." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"true wealth consists in worriless sleeping, clear conscience, reciprocal gratitude, absence of envy, good appetite, muscle strength, physical energy, frequent laughs, no meals alone, no gym class, some physical labor (or hobby), good bowel movements, no meeting rooms, and periodic surprises, then it is largely subtractive (elimination of iatrogenics)." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The good is not as good as the absence of bad." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Kun nainen huutaa, että tekosi oli anteeksiantamaton, hän on jo alkanut antaa anteeksi." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The human mind suffers from three ailments as it comes into contact with history, what I call the triplet of opacity. They are: the illusion of understanding, or how everyone thinks he knows what is going on in a world that is more complicated (or random) than they realize; the retrospective distortion, or how we can assess matters only after the fact, as if they were in a rearview mirror (history seems clearer and more organized in history books than in empirical reality); and the overvaluation of factual information and the handicap of authoritative and" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"In the long run everything with the most minute vulnerability breaks, given the ruthlessness of time." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Cygnus Atratus In his Treatise on Human Nature, the Scots philosopher David Hume posed the issue in the following way (as rephrased in the now famous black swan problem by John Stuart Mill): No amount of observations of white swans can allow the inference that all swans are white, but the observation of a single black swan is sufficient to refute that conclusion." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Further, many writers and scholars speak in private, say, after half a bottle of wine, differently from the way they do in print. Their writing is certifiably fake, fake. And many of the problems of society come from the argument "other people are doing it." So if I call someone a dangerous ethically challenged fragilista in private after the third glass of Lebanese wine (white), I will be obligated to do so here." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I figured out that whatever I selected myself I could read with more depth and more breadth—there was a match to my curiosity. And I could take advantage of what people later pathologized as Attention Deficit Hyperactive Disorder (ADHD) by using natural stimulation as a main driver to scholarship." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"One of the most misunderstood aspects of a Gaussian is its fragility and vulnerability in the estimation of tail events. The odds of a 4 sigma move are twice that of a 4.15 sigma. The odds of a 20 sigma are a trillion times higher than those of a 21 sigma! It means that a small measurement error of the sigma will lead to a massive underestimation of the probability. We can be a trillion times wrong about some events." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We said that mere judgment would probably suffice in a primitive society. It is easy for a society to live without mathematics—" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A man is honorable in proportion to the personal risks he takes for his opinion—in other words, the amount of downside he is exposed to." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Pero hay otros problemas que surgen de nuestra ceguera ante el Cisne Negro: a) Nos centramos en segmentos preseleccionados de lo visto, y a partir de ahí generalizamos en lo no visto: el error de la confirmación. b) Nos engañamos con historias que sacian nuestra sed platónica de modelos distintos: la falacia narrativa. c) Nos comportamos como si el Cisne Negro no existiera: la naturaleza humana no está programada para los Cisnes Negros. d) Lo que vemos no es necesariamente todo lo que existe. La historia nos oculta los Cisnes Negros y nos da una idea falsa sobre las probabilidades de esos sucesos: es la distorsión de las pruebas silenciosas. e) «Tunelamos»: es decir, nos centramos en unas cuantas fuentes bien definidas de la incertidumbre, en una lista demasiado específica de Cisnes Negros (a expensas de aquellos que no nos vienen a la mente con facilidad). En los siguientes cinco capítulos me ocuparé de cada uno de estos puntos. Luego, en la conclusión de la primera parte, mostraré que, en realidad, son el mismo tema." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"If you lie to me, keep lying; don't hurt me by suddenly telling the truth." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"the easier it was to make money." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A life saved is a statistic; a person hurt is an anecdote. Statistics are invisible; anecdotes are salient. Likewise, the risk of a Black Swan is invisible." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Never cross a river if it is on average four feet deep" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"You may outlive your strength, never your wisdom.–" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Beyond books, consider this simple heuristic: your work and ideas, whether in politics, the arts, or other domains, are antifragile if, instead of having one hundred percent of the people finding your mission acceptable or mildly commendable, you are better off having a high percentage of people disliking you and your message (even intensely), combined with a low percentage of extremely loyal and enthusiastic supporters. Options like dispersion of outcomes and don't care about the average too much." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"What does "fitness" mean? Being exactly tuned to a given past history of a specific environment, or extrapolating to an environment with stressors of higher intensity? Many seem to point to the first kind of adaptation, missing the notion of antifragility. But if one were to write down mathematically a standard model of selection, one would get overcompensation rather than mere "fitness."*" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The strategy for the discoverers and entrepreneurs is to rely less on top-down planning and focus on maximum tinkering and recognizing opportunities when they present themselves." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Alas, we are not manufactured, in our current edition of the human race, to understand abstract matters—we need context. Randomness and uncertainty are abstractions. We respect what has happened, ignoring what could have happened. In other words, we are naturally shallow and superficial—and we do not know it. This is not a psychological problem; it comes from the main property of information. The dark side of the moon is harder to see; beaming light on it costs energy. In the same way, beaming light on the unseen is costly in both computational and mental effort." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Weak men act to satisfy their needs, stronger men their duties." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Repeated punishment, while it crushes the hatred of a few, stirs the hatred of all … just as trees that have been trimmed throw out again countless branches." For revolutions feed on repression, growing heads faster and faster as one literally cuts a few off by killing demonstrators. There is an Irish revolutionary song that encapsulates the effect: The higher you build your barricades, the stronger we become." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Things that have worked for a long time are preferable - they are more likely to have reached their ergodic states. At the worst, we don't know how long they'll last." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Most of the debate between creationists and evolutionary theorists (of which I do not partake) lies in the following: creationists believe that the world comes from some form of design while evolutionary theorists see the world as a result of random changes by an aimless process. But it is hard to look at a computer or a car and consider them the result of aimless process. Yet they are." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Ex cura theoria nascitur." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"On alternative histories, a probabilistic view of the world, intellectual fraud, and the randomness wisdom of a Frenchman with steady bathing habits. How journalists are bred to not understand random series of events." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I want to be broadly right rather than precisely wrong." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"You can easily tell a Northener: he/she feels guilty doing nothing. Even doing nothing for them is programmed, labeled, and has to be learned using some Yoga instructor." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We produce thirty-year projections of social security deficits and oil prices without realizing that we cannot even predict these for next summer—our cumulative prediction errors for political and economic events are so monstrous that every time I look at the empirical record I have to pinch myself to verify that I am not dreaming. What is surprising is not the magnitude of our forecast errors, but our absence of awareness of it." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Los emprendedores son unos héroes en nuestra sociedad. Fracasan por el resto de nosotros" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"This is the reason I put social science theories in the left column of the Triad, as something superfragile for real-world decisions and unusable for risk analyses. The very designation "theory" is even upsetting. In social science we should call these constructs "chimeras" rather than theories." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"gravest of all manifestations of silent evidence, the illusion of stability. The" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I propose that if you want a simple step to a higher form of life, as distant from the animal as you can get, then you may have to denarrate, that is, shut down the television set, minimize time spent reading newspapers, ignore the blogs. Train your reasoning abilities to control your decisions; nudge System 1 (the heuristic or experiential system) out of the important ones. Train yourself to spot the difference between the sensational and the empirical." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Los Cisnes Negros que imaginamos, de los que hablamos y nos preocupamos no se parecen a los que previsiblemente son Cisnes Negros. Como veremos a continuación, nos preocupamos de los sucesos «improbables» equivocados." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The notion of "economies of scale"—that companies save money when they become large, hence more efficient—is often, apparently behind company expansions and mergers. It is prevalent in the collective consciousness without evidence for it; in fact, the evidence would suggest the opposite. Yet, for obvious reasons, people keep doing these mergers—they are not good for companies, they are good for Wall Street bonuses; a company getting larger is good for the CEO. Well, I realized that as they become larger, companies appear to be more "efficient," but they are also much more vulnerable to outside contingencies, those contingencies commonly known as "Black Swans" after a book of that name." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The bias lowers our perception of the risks we incurred in the past, particularly for those of us who were lucky to have survived them. Your" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A correspondent, Jean-Louis Rheault, wrote, "I have noticed that the more people glorify the entrepreneur as an abstraction, the more they will scorn an actual one they meet." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Recall that someone with only casual knowledge about the problems of randomness would believe that an animal is at the maximum fitness for the conditions of its time. This is not what evolution means; on average, animals will be fit, but not every single one of them, and not at all times. Just as an animal could have survived because its sample path was lucky, the "best" operators in a given business can come from a subset of operators who survived because of overfitness to a sample path—a sample path that was free of the evolutionary rare event. One vicious attribute is that the longer these animals can go without encountering the rare event, the more vulnerable they will be to it. We said that should one extend time to infinity, then, by ergodicity, that event will happen with certainty—the species will be wiped out! For evolution means fitness to one and only one time series, not the average of all the possible environments." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"If you see a fraud and don't say fraud, you are a fraud." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"More than two thousand years ago, the Roman orator, belletrist, thinker, Stoic, manipulator-politician, and (usually) virtuous gentleman, Marcus Tullius Cicero, presented the following story. One Diagoras, a nonbeliever in the gods, was shown painted tablets bearing the portraits of some worshippers who prayed, then survived a subsequent shipwreck. The implication was that praying protects you from drowning. Diagoras asked, Where were the pictures of those who prayed, then drowned?The drowned worshippers, being dead, would have a lot of trouble advertising their experiences from the bottom of the sea. This can fool the casual observer into believing in miracles." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Monte Carlo (the old name for a roulette wheel)" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Montaigne was neither one of the academics of the Sorbonne nor a professional man of letters, and he was not these things on two planes. First, he was a doer; he had been a magistrate, a businessman, and the mayor of Bordeaux before he retired to mull over his life and, mostly, his own knowledge. Second, he was an antidogmatist: he was a skeptic with charm, a fallible, noncommittal, personal, introspective writer, and, primarily, someone who, in the great classical tradition, wanted to be a man." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"After things got bad for him, they somehow recovered by some invisible hand, and he was led to believe that it was his intrinsic property to recover from hardships by running every time into a new opportunity. He" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Before the "enlightenment" and the age of rationality, there was in the culture a collection of tricks to deal with our fallibility and reversals of fortunes. The elders can still help us with some of their ruses." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"If I could predict what my day would exactly look like, I would feel a little bit dead." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Never ask people what they want, or where they want to go, or where they think they should go, or, worse, what they think they will desire tomorrow." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"For instance, it has been argued since the 1970s that limiting speed on the highway (and enforcing it) leads to an extremely effective increase in safety. This can be plausible because risks of accidents increase disproportionally (that is, nonlinearly) with speed, and humans are not ancestrally equipped with such intuition. Someone recklessly driving a huge vehicle on the highway is endangering your safety and needs to be stopped before he hits your convertible Mini—or put in a situation in which he is the one exiting the gene pool, not you." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"At the time of writing, forty-four years later, nothing has happened in economics and social science statistics—except for some cosmetic fiddling that treats the world as if we were subject only to mild randomness—and yet Nobel medals were being distributed." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Indeed we rarely look at religion's benefits in limiting the intervention bias and its iatrogenics: in a large set of circumstances (marginal disease), anything that takes you away from the doctor and allows you to do nothing (hence gives nature a chance to do its work) will be beneficial. So" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The Discovery of France," -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"the distance between opinions is remarkably narrower than the distance between the average of opinions and truth." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We cannot truly plan, because we do not understand the future—but this is not necessarily bad news. We could plan while bearing in mind such limitations. It just takes guts." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Missing a train is only painful if you run after it!" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"There, I was surrounded by highly employable persons (my most unpleasant experience in life), until I switched to trading (with another firm) and discovered that there were some wolves among the dogs." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The fact that you survived is a condition that may weaken your interpretation of the properties of the survival, including the shallow notion of "cause." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Mathematics is not just a "numbers game," it is a way of thinking." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"La mente humana padece tres trastornos cuando entra en contacto con la historia, lo que yo llamo el terceto de la opacidad. Son los siguientes: a) la ilusión de comprender, o cómo todos pensamos que sabemos lo que pasa en un mundo que es más complicado (o aleatorio) de lo que creemos; b) la distorsión retrospectiva, o cómo podemos evaluar las cosas sólo después del hecho, como si se reflejaran en un retrovisor (la historia parece más clara y más organizada en los libros que en la realidad empírica); y c) la valoración exagerada de la información factual y la desventaja de las personas eruditas y con autoridad, en particular cuando crean categorías, cuando «platonifican»." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"As to liquid, my rule is drink no liquid that is not at least a thousand years old—so its fitness has been tested. I drink just wine, water, and coffee. No soft drinks. Perhaps the most possibly deceitfully noxious drink is the orange juice we make poor innocent people imbibe at the breakfast table while, thanks to marketing, we convince them it is "healthy." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Those who talk should do and only those who do should talk" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Croesus, King of Lydia, was considered the richest man of his time. To this day Romance languages use the expression "rich as Croesus" to describe a person of excessive wealth. He was said to be visited by Solon, the Greek legislator known for his dignity, reserve, upright morals, humility, frugality, wisdom, intelligence, and courage. Solon did not display the smallest surprise at the wealth and splendor surrounding his host, nor the tiniest admiration for their owner. Croesus was so irked by the manifest lack of impression on the part of this illustrious visitor that he attempted to extract from him some acknowledgment. He asked him if he had known a happier man than him. Solon cited the life of a man who led a noble existence and died while in battle. Prodded for more, he gave similar examples of heroic but terminated lives, until Croesus, irate, asked him point-blank if he was not to be considered the happiest man of all. Solon answered: "The observation of the numerous misfortunes that attend all conditions forbids us to grow insolent upon our present enjoyments, or to admire a man's happiness that may yet, in course of time, suffer change. For the uncertain future has yet to come, with all variety of future; and him only to whom the divinity has [guaranteed] continued happiness until the end we may call happy." The modern equivalent has been no less eloquently voiced by the baseball coach Yogi Berra, who seems to have translated Solon's outburst from the pure Attic Greek into no less pure Brooklyn English with "it ain't over until it's over," or, in a less dignified manner, with "it ain't over until the fat lady sings." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Como se supone que dijo Stalin (que algo sabía sobre la mortalidad): «Una muerte es una tragedia; un millón de muertes, una estadística». La estadística permanece callada en nuestro interior." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The turkey problem can be generalized to any situation where the same hand that feeds you can be the one that wrings your neck. Consider" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"He is susceptible to conference room boredom and is incapable of talking to businessmen, particularly the run-of-the-mill variety. Nero is allergic to the vocabulary of business talk, not just on plain aesthetic grounds. Phrases like "game plan," "bottom line," "how to get there from here," "we provide our clients with solutions," "our mission," and other hackneyed expressions that dominate meetings lack both the precision and the coloration that he prefers to hear. Whether people populate silence with hollow sentences, or if such meetings present any true merit, he does not know; at any rate he did not want to be part of it." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"if something is fragile, its risk of breaking makes anything you do to improve it or make it "efficient" inconsequential unless you first reduce that risk of breaking. As Publilius Syrus wrote, nothing can be done both hastily and safely—almost nothing." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"certain professionals, while believing they are experts, are in fact not. Based on their empirical record, they do not know more about their subject matter than the general population, but they are much better at narrating—or, worse, at smoking you with complicated mathematical models. They are also more likely to wear a tie." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"FAT TONY: "My dear Socrates … you know why they are putting you to death? It is because you make people feel stupid for blindly following habits, instincts, and traditions. You may be occasionally right. But you may confuse them about things they've been doing just fine without getting in trouble. You are destroying people's illusions about themselves. You are taking the joy of ignorance out of the things we don't understand. And you have no answer; you have no answer to offer them." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"But we have evidence that collectively society doesn't advance with organized education, rather the reverse: the level of (formal) education in a country is the result of wealth.*2" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Hume came to warn us against such knowledge, and to stress the need for some rigor in the gathering and interpretation of knowledge" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Nykyaika: loimme nuoruuden ilman sankaruutta, iän ilman viisautta ja elämän ilman loistoa." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"He is often involved in a strange ritual, something commonly called "a meeting." Now, in addition to these traits, he defaults to thinking that what he doesn't see is not there, or what he does not understand does not exist. At the core, he tends to mistake the unknown for the nonexistent." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Alas, it has been hard for me to fit these ideas about fragility and antifragility within the current U.S. political discourse—that beastly two-fossil system. Most of the time, the Democratic side of the U.S. spectrum favors hyper-intervention, unconditional regulation, and large government, while the Republican side loves large corporations, unconditional deregulation, and militarism—both are the same to me here." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"major ramification of the ludic fallacy: how those whose job it is to make us aware of uncertainty fail us and divert us into bogus certainties through the back door." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"(la muerte a menudo es un buen paso profesional para el escritor)." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Puede que no sea algo exigible desde el punto de vista ético, pero la política más eficaz y más libre de vergüenza es la transparencia máxima, la cual incluye la transparencia de intenciones." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Administrators everywhere on the planet, in all businesses and pursuits, and at all times in history, have been the plague." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Even from an anatomical perspective, it is impossible for our brain to see anything in raw form without some interpretation. We may not even always be conscious of it." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It took me an entire lifetime to find out what my generator is. It is: We favor the visible, the embedded, the personal, the narrated, and the tangible; we scorn the abstract. Everything good (aesthetics, ethics) and wrong (Fooled by Randomness) with us seems to flow from it." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"All I hear is how to live longer, richer, and, of course, more laden with electronic gadgets. We are not the first generation to believe that the worst possible thing to befall us is death. But for the ancients, the worst possible outcome was not death, but a dishonorable death, or even just a regular one. For a classical hero, dying in a retirement home with a rude nurse and a network of tubes coming into and out of your nose would not be the attractive telos for a life. And, of course, we have this modern illusion that we should live as long as we can. As" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"There is one world in which I believe the habit of mistaking luck for skill is most prevalent—and most conspicuous—and that is the world of markets. By" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"If my brain can tell the difference between noise and signal, my heart cannot. Such" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Something has worked in the past, until—well, it unexpectedly no longer does, and what we have learned from the past turns out to be at best irrelevant or false, at worst viciously misleading." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The problem with governments is that they will tend to support these fragile organisms "because they are large employers" and because they have lobbyists, the kind of phony but visible advertised contributions so decried by Bastiat. Large companies get government support and become progressively larger and more fragile, and, in a way, run government, another prophetic view of Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels. Hairdressers and small businesses on the other hand, fail without anyone caring about them; they need to be efficient and to obey the laws of nature." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"By definition, what works cannot be irrational; about every single person I know who has chronically failed in business shares that mental block, the failure to realize that if something stupid works (and makes money), it cannot be stupid." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The reference point argument is as follows: do not compute odds from the vantage point of the winning gambler (or the lucky Casanova, or the endlessly bouncing back New York City, or the invincible Carthage), but from all those who started in the cohort. Consider" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"people look for books that support their mental program." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"If The Black Swan is about epistemic limitations, then, from this definition, we can see that it is not about some objectively defined phenomenon, like rain or a car crash—it is simply something that was not expected by a particular observer. So I was wondering why so many otherwise intelligent people have casually questioned whether certain events, say the Great War, or the September 11, 2001, attack on the World Trade Center, were Black Swans, on the grounds that some predicted them. Of course the September 11 attack was a Black Swan to those victims who died in it; otherwise, they would not have exposed themselves to the risk. But it was certainly not a Black Swan to the terrorists who planned and carried out the attack. I have spent considerable time away from the weight-lifting room repeating that a Black Swan for the turkey is not a Black Swan for the butcher." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We have this culture of financialization. People think they need to make money with their savings rather with their own business. So you end up with dentists who are more traders than dentists. A dentist should drill teeth and use whatever he does in the stock market for entertainment." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Many kids would learn to love mathematics if they had some investment in it, and, more crucially, they would build an instinct to spot its misapplications." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"newspapers do not have to have a screaming headline saying that nothing new is taking place (though the Bible was smart enough to declare ein chadash tachat hashemesh—" nothing new under the sun," providing the information that things just do recur)." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"All I hear is how to live longer, richer, and, of course, more laden with electronic gadgets. We are not the first generation to believe that the worst possible thing to befall us is death. But for the ancients, the worst possible outcome was not death, but a dishonorable death, or even just a regular one. For a classical hero, dying in a retirement home with a rude nurse and a network of tubes coming into and out of your nose would not be the attractive telos for a life. And, of course, we have this modern illusion that we should live as long as we can. As if we were each the end product. This" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"When we look at risks in Extremistan, we don't look at evidence (evidence comes too late), we look at potential damage: never has the world been more prone to more damage; never." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"detest the ruthlessness of selection, the inexorable disloyalty of Mother Nature. I detest the notion of improvement thanks to harm to others. As a humanist, I stand against the antifragility of systems at the expense of individuals, for if you follow the reasoning, this makes us humans individually irrelevant." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"So, "giving advice" as a sales pitch is fundamentally unethical—selling cannot be deemed advice. We can safely settle on that. You can give advice, or you can sell (by advertising the quality of the product), and the two need to be kept separate." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"La forma de evitar los males de la falacia narrativa es favorecer la experimentación sobre la narración, la experiencia sobre la historia y el conocimiento clínico sobre las teorías. Es evidente que un periódico no puede realizar un experimento, pero puede escoger una noticia u otra —hay muchos estudios empíricos que presentar y que pueden ser interpretados—, como yo hago en este libro. Ser empírico no significa dirigir un laboratorio en el sótano de tu casa: se trata simplemente de una mentalidad que favorece una determinada clase de conocimientos sobre otros. Yo no me prohíbo utilizar la palabra causa, pero las causas de que hablo aquí son bien especulaciones osadas (y expuestas como tales)," -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Most feed their obsessions by trying to get rid of them." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Yo observaba que personas muy inteligentes e informadas no tenían ventaja alguna sobre los taxistas en sus predicciones, pero había una diferencia crucial. Los taxistas no pensaban que comprendieran las cosas mejor que las personas con estudios; ellos no eran los especialistas, y lo sabían. Nadie sabía nada, pero los pensadores de élite estaban convencidos de que sabían más que los demás porque eran pensadores reputados, y cuando se es miembro de la élite, automáticamente se sabe más que los que no son tal." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Frédéric Dard, Libanius Antiochus, Michael Oakeshott, John Gray, Ammianus Marcellinus, Ibn Battuta, Saadia Gaon, or Joseph de Maistre; he" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"One single observation can invalidate a general statement derived from millennia of confirmatory sightings of millions of white swans." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Let's watch: Damasio reported that the purely unemotional man was incapable of making the simplest decision. He could not get out of bed in the morning, and frittered away his days fruitlessly weighing decisions. Shock! This flies in the face of everything one would have expected: One cannot make a decision without emotion. Now, mathematics gives the same answer: If one were to perform an optimizing operation across a large collection of variables, even with a brain as large as ours, it would take a very long time to decide on the simplest of tasks. So we need a shortcut; emotions are there to prevent us from temporizing. Does it remind you of Herbert Simon's idea? It seems that the emotions are the ones doing the job." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A escala federal, soy liberal; a escala estatal, republicano; a escala local, demócrata; y con mi familia y mis amigos, socialista." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"adumbration" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Heroism and the respect it commands is a form of compensation by society for those who take risks for others. And entrepreneurship is a risky and heroic activity, necessary for growth or even the mere survival of the economy. It is also necessarily collective on epistemological grounds—to facilitate the development of expertise." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"La mejor forma de demostrar el carácter arbitrario de estas categorías, y el efecto de contagio que producen, es recordar con qué frecuencia esos grupos cambian por completo a lo largo de la historia. No hay duda de que la actual alianza entre los fundamentalistas cristianos y el lobby israelí sería incomprensible para un intelectual del siglo XIX: los cristianos eran antisemitas, y los musulmanes protegían a los judíos, a quienes preferían sobre los cristianos; los libertarios eran de izquierdas. Lo que me resulta interesante como probabilista que soy es que un determinado suceso aleatorio hace que un grupo que inicialmente apoya un determinado tema se alíe con otro grupo que apoya otro tema, causando así que ambos asuntos se fusionen y unifiquen… hasta que se produce la sorpresa de la separación." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Hamburgers, to many of us, are vastly tastier than filet mignon because of the higher fat content, but people have been convinced that the latter is better because it is more expensive to produce." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"La Ley de Rodas establece que si se tira mercancía para aligerar la carga del barco, lo que se ha perdido para beneficio de todos debe recuperarse mediante la contribución de todos." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I tried to explain the problems of errors in monetary policy under nonlinearities: you keep adding money with no result … until there is hyperinflation. Or nothing. Governments should not be given toys they do not understand." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"los «modernos» intentan innovar partiendo de una situación de comodidad, seguridad y previsibilidad en lugar de aceptar la noción de que la inventiva surge de la necesidad." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I suggest this passage from the German "philosopher" (this passage was detected, translated, and reviled by Karl Popper): Sound is the change in the specific condition of segregation of the material parts, and in the negation of this condition; merely an abstract or an ideal ideality, as it were, of that specification. But this change, accordingly, is itself immediately the negation of the material specific subsistence; which is, therefore, real ideality of specific gravity and cohesion, i.e.—heat. The heating up of sounding bodies, just as of beaten and or rubbed ones, is the appearance of heat, originating conceptually together with sound. Even a Monte Carlo engine could not sound as random as the great philosophical master thinker (it would take plenty of sample runs to get the mixture of "heat" and "sound." People call that philosophy and frequently finance it with taxpayer subsidies!" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The curse of modernity is that we are increasingly populated by a class of people who are better at explaining than understanding," -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Black Swan Is Relative to Knowledge" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"my antidote to Black Swans is precisely to be noncommoditized in my thinking. But" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"stability is not good for the economy: firms become very weak during long periods of steady prosperity devoid of setbacks, and hidden vulnerabilities accumulate silently under the surface—so delaying crises is not a very good idea." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Nu căutați ceea ce este precis și local. Nu fiți îngust la minte. Marele descoperitor Pasteur, care a venit cu ideea că norocul îl favorizează pe cel pregătit, a înțeles că pentru a lăsa contingența să-ți afecteze viața nu trebuie să cauți ceva anume în fiecare dimineață, ci să muncești din greu. Așa cum a spus un alt mare gânditor, Yogi Berra, Dacă nu știi încotro mergi, trebuie să fii foarte atent, pentru că s-ar putea să nu ajungi acolo." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Breaking a fast feels like the exact opposite of a hangover.*" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"In fact, the reason I felt immediately at home in America is precisely because American culture encourages the process of failure, unlike the cultures of Europe and Asia where failure is met with stigma and embarrassment. America's specialty is to take these small risks for the rest of the world, which explains this country's disproportionate share in innovations. Once established, an idea or a product is later "perfected" over there. Volatility" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"With few exceptions, those who dress outrageously are robust or even antifragile in reputation; those clean-shaven types who dress in suits and ties are fragile to information about them." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"absence of fluctuations in the market causes hidden risks to accumulate with impunity. The longer one goes without a market trauma, the worse the damage when commotion occurs." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"But I also buy the opposite argument that regulating street signs does not seem to reduce risks; drivers become more placid. Experiments show that alertness is weakened when one relinquishes control to the system (again, lack of overcompensation). Motorists need the stressors and tension coming from the feeling of danger to feed their attention and risk controls, rather than some external regulator—fewer pedestrians die jaywalking than using regulated crossings." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"than" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"For instance, few realize that we are changing the brains of schoolchildren through medication in order to make them adjust to the curriculum, rather than the reverse." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I have anecdotal evidence in my business that MBAs tend to blow up in financial markets, as they are trained to simplify matters a couple of steps beyond their requirement. (I beg the MBA reader not to take offense; I am myself the unhappy holder of the degree.)" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"In finance, for instance, people use flimsy theories to manage their risks and put wild ideas under "rational" scrutiny." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We cannot teach people to withhold judgment; judgments are embedded in the way we view objects. I do not see a "tree"; I see a pleasant or an ugly tree. It is not possible without great, paralyzing effort to strip these small values we attach to matters. Likewise, it is not possible to hold a situation in one's head without some element of bias. Something in our dear human nature makes us want to believe" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"equable" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Life is about execution rather than purpose." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I am also realizing the nonlinear effect behind success in anything: It is better to have a handful of enthusiastic advocates than hordes of people who appreciate your work—better to be loved by a dozen than liked by the hundreds. This" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"By searching, you can always find someone who made a well-sounding statement that confirms your point of view—and, on every topic, it is possible to find another dead thinker who said the exact opposite." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"But have the integrity to deliver your "because" very sparingly; try to limit it to situations where the "because" is derived from experiments, not backward-looking history." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Nobody knew anything, but elite thinkers thought that they knew more than the rest because they were elite thinkers, and" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"You have far more control over your life if you decide on your criterion by yourself." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"There is, in the Black Swan zone, a limit to knowledge that can never be reached, no matter how sophisticated statistical and risk management science ever gets." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"my characterization of a loser is someone who, after making a mistake, doesn't introspect, doesn't exploit it, feels embarrassed and defensive rather than enriched with a new piece of information, and tries to explain why he made the mistake rather than moving on." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"doxastic" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Todo lo que se necesita es una sola (y, por lo que me dicen, fea) ave negra.** Doy un paso adelante, dejando atrás esta cuestión lógico-filosófica, para entrar en la realidad empírica, la cual me obsesiona desde niño.*** Lo que aquí llamamos un Cisne Negro (así, en mayúsculas) es un suceso con los tres atributos que siguen. Primero, es una rareza, pues habita fuera del reino de las expectativas normales, porque nada del pasado puede apuntar de forma convincente a su posibilidad. Segundo, produce un impacto tremendo (al contrario que el ave). Tercero, pese a su condición de rareza, la naturaleza humana hace que inventemos explicaciones de su existencia después del hecho, con lo que se hace explicable y predecible." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We notice what varies and changes more than what plays a large role but doesn't change. We" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Am spus că se pare că avem o înclinație naturală spre platonificare și spre a gândi în termenii materialelor studiate: nimeni, fie el zidar sau filosof al naturii, nu poate scăpa prea ușor de aservirea față de aceste condiționări." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Luck is far more egalitarian than even intelligence. If people were rewarded strictly according to their abilities, things would still be unfair—people don't choose their abilities. Randomness has the beneficial effect of reshuffling society's cards, knocking down the big guy." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"In a now famous experiment they found that the majority of people, whether predictors or nonpredictors, will judge a deadly flood (causing thousands of deaths) caused by a California earthquake to be more likely than a fatal flood (causing thousands of deaths) occurring somewhere in North America (which happens to include California). As a derivatives trader I noticed that people do not like to insure against something abstract; the risk that merits their attention is always something vivid." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Train yourself to spot the difference between sensational and empirical. This insulation from toxicity of the world will have an additional benefit: it will improve your well-being." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"She received enough attention to get the courtesy of rejection letters and occasional insulting comments instead of the far more insulting and demeaning silence." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It is often said that is wise he who can see things coming. Perhaps the wise one is the one who knows that he cannot see things far away." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Some libertarians use the example of Drachten, a town in the Netherlands, in which a dream experiment was conducted. All street signs were removed. The deregulation led to an increase in safety, confirming the antifragility of attention at work, how it is whetted by a sense of danger and responsibility. As a result, many German and Dutch towns have reduced the number of street signs. We saw a version of the Drachten effect in Chapter 2 in the discussion of the automation of planes, which produces the exact opposite effect than what is intended by making pilots lose alertness." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Lo que no sabemos La lógica del Cisne Negro hace que lo que no sabemos sea más importante que lo que sabemos.* Tengamos en cuenta que muchos Cisnes Negros pueden estar causados y exacerbados por el hecho de ser inesperados." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The problem is that near precision is not possible since the degradation of your forecast compounds abruptly—you would eventually need to figure out the past with infinite precision. Poincaré showed this in a very simple case, famously known as the "three body problem." If you have only two planets in a solar-style system, with nothing else affecting their course, then you may be able to indefinitely predict the behavior of these planets, no sweat. But add a third body, say a comet, ever so small, between the planets. Initially the third body will cause no drift, no impact; later, with time, its effects on the two other bodies may become explosive. Small differences in where this tiny body is located will eventually dictate the future of the behemoth planets." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"And the key phrase reverberating in Seneca's oeuvre is nihil perditi, "I lost nothing," after an adverse event. Stoicism" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Categorizing is necessary for humans, but it becomes pathological when the category is seen as definitive, preventing people from considering the fuzziness of boundaries, let alone revising their categories. Contagion" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Consider that all the wealth of the world can't buy a liquid more pleasurable than water after intense thirst." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"it is easy to see that history is truly written by losers with time on their hands and a protected academic position." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The major problem with inference in general is that those whose profession is to derive conclusions from data often fall into the trap faster and more confidently than others. The more data we have, the more likely we are to drown in it. For" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"But one needs to be careful not to overgeneralize the Drachten effect, as it does not imply the effectiveness of removing all rules from society. As I said earlier, speed on the highway responds to a different dynamic and its risks are different." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"¿No es extraño ver que un suceso se produce precisamente porque no se esperaba que fuera a ocurrir? ¿Qué tipo de defensa tenemos contra ello? Cualquier cosa que se nos ocurra (que Nueva York es un blanco fácil para los terroristas, por ejemplo) puede resultar ineficaz si el enemigo sabe que lo sabemos. Quizá parezca raro que, en un juego estratégico de este tipo, lo que sabemos pueda ser por completo intrascendente." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Our minds are wonderful explanation machines, capable of making sense out of almost anything, capable of mounting explanations for all manner of phenomena, and generally incapable of accepting the idea of unpredictability." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Much of aging comes from a misunderstanding of the effect of comfort—a disease of civilization: make life longer and longer, while people are more and more sick." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"To Fail Seven Times, Plus or Minus Two Let me stop to issue rules based on the chapter so far. (i) Look for optionality; in fact, rank things according to optionality, (ii) preferably with open-ended, not closed-ended, payoffs; (iii) Do not invest in business plans but in people, so look for someone capable of changing six or seven times over his career, or more (an idea that is part of the modus operandi of the venture capitalist Marc Andreessen); one gets immunity from the backfit narratives of the business plan by investing in people. It is simply more robust to do so; (iv) Make sure you are barbelled, whatever that means in your business." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A novel, a story, a myth, or a tale, all have the same function: they spare us from the complexity of the world and shield us from its randomness. Myths impart order to the disorder of human perception and the perceived "chaos of human experience." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"... you can always mention Wittgenstein since he is vague enough to always seem relevant" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"as societies gain in complexity, with more and more "cutting edge" sophistication in them, and more and more specialization, they become increasingly vulnerable to collapse." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Life is long gamma." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Experimentation can make people much more careful than theories." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Latin saying that sophistication is born out of hunger (artificia docuit fames)." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"stead." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"La estrategia de los descubridores y emprendedores es confiar menos en la planificación de arriba abajo y centrarse al máximo en reconocer las oportunidades cuando se presentan, y juguetear con ellas. De modo que no estoy de acuerdo con los seguidores de Marx y los de Adam Smith: si los mercados libres funcionan es porque dejan que la gente tenga suerte, gracias al agresivo método del ensayo y error, y no dan a las personas recompensas ni «incentivos» por su destreza. Así pues, la estrategia es juguetear cuanto sea posible y tratar de reunir tantas oportunidades de Cisne Negro como se pueda." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"had to rely on messenger services. So a local" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"In order to progress, modern society should be treating ruined entrepreneurs in the same way we honor dead soldiers, perhaps not with as much honor, but using exactly the same logic (the entrepreneur is still alive, though perhaps morally broken and socially stigmatized," -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"You need to love to lose" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"As the skeptics' main teaching was that nothing could be accepted with certainty, conclusions of various degrees of probability could be formed, and these supplied a guide to conduct." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Further, as we discovered during the financial crisis that started in 2008, these blowup risks-to-others are easily concealed owing to the growing complexity of modern institutions and political affairs. While in the past people of rank or status were those and only those who took risks, who had the downside for their actions, and heroes were those who did so for the sake of others, today the exact reverse is taking place. We are witnessing the rise of a new class of inverse heroes, that is, bureaucrats, bankers, Davos-attending members of the I.A.N.D. (International Association of Name Droppers), and academics with too much power and no real downside and/or accountability. They game the system while citizens pay the price. At no point in history have so many non-risk-takers, that is, those with no personal exposure, exerted so much control. The chief ethical rule is the following: Thou shalt not have antifragility at the expense of the fragility of others." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"veritas odium parit—truth brings hatred." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Wittgenstein is occasionally mentioned (you can always mention Wittgenstein since he is vague enough to always seem relevant)." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"it took me a lifetime to figure out the second point: implementation does not necessarily proceed from invention. It, too, requires luck and circumstances." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The strength of the computer entrepreneur Steve Jobs was precisely in distrusting market research and focus groups— those based on asking people what they want—and following his own imagination. His modus was that people don't know what they want until you provide them with it." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"taking the half-invented into the invented is often the real breakthrough" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The very word essay conveys the tentative, the speculative, and the nondefinitive." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"An essay is an impulsive meditation, not science reporting." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Sosiaalinen media on vakavasti epäsosiaalinen, ter­veysruoat ovat empiirisesti epäterveellisiä, tietotyöläiset ovat erittäin tietämättömiä ja sosiaalitieteet eivät ole millään tavalla tieteellisiä." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"the simpler and more obvious the discovery, the less equipped we are to figure it out by complicated methods." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We have polluted for years, causing much damage to the environment, while the scientists currently making these complicated forecasting models were not sticking their necks out and trying to stop us from building these risks (they resemble those "risk experts" in the economic domain who fight the previous war)—these are the scientists now trying to impose the solutions on us. But the skepticism about models that I propose does not lead to the conclusions endorsed by anti-environmentalists and pro-market fundamentalists. Quite the contrary: we need to be hyper-conservationists ecologically, since we do not know what we are harming with now. That's the sound policy under conditions of ignorance and epistemic opacity. To those who say "We have no proof that we are harming nature," a sound response is "We have no proof that we are not harming nature, either;" the burden of the proof is not on the ecological conservationist, but on someone disrupting an old system. Furthermore we should not "try to correct" the harm done, as we may be creating another problem we do not know much about currently." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"life saved is a statistic; a person hurt is anecdote. Statistics are invisible; anecdotes are silent. Likewise, the risk of Black Swan is invisible." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It is the appearance of inconsistency, and not its absence, that makes people attractive." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Le grandi aziende adorano l'idea del piano strategico. Vogliono pagare qualcuno per comprendere dove stanno andando. Eppure non esistono prove che dimostrino che la pianificazione strategica funzioni davvero: anzi, pare che vi siano prove del contrario. Uno studioso di gestione aziendale, William Starbuck, ha pubblicato alcuni articoli che sfatano il mito dell'efficacia della pianificazione, la quale rende le aziende cieche alle opzioni, dato che rimangono intrappolate in linee d'azione non opportunistiche. Sulla base di test empirici è emerso che quasi tutto ciò che c'è di teorico nella gestione aziendale, dal taylorismo alle storie sulla produttività, è pseudoscienza e, come molte teorie economiche, vive in un mondo parallelo a quello dei fatti. Matthew Stewart, dopo una formazione da filosofo, si è ritrovato a lavorare come consulente di management: ne fornisce una versione alquanto disgustosa, ma divertente, nel suo libro Twilight manager – Il crepuscolo del management. Ricorda l'approccio egoistico dei banchieri che pensano solo ai propri interessi. Anche Abrahamson e Friedmann, nel bel volume A Perfect Mess, smitizzano molti di questi approcci teleologici accurati e incisivi. Si scopre che la pianificazione strategica è fatta solo di chiacchiere superstiziose." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Consider duels, which have robbed us of the great Russian poet Pushkin, the French mathematician Galois, and, of course, many more, at a young age (and, in the case of Galois, a very young age): people incurred a significant probability of death just to save face." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Unrequited hate is vastly more diminishing for the self than unrequited love. You can't react by reciprocating." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"the Swiss doctor Claparède had an amnesic patient completely crippled with her ailment. Her condition was so bad that he would have to reintroduce himself to her at a frequency of once per fifteen minutes for her to remember who he was. One day he secreted a pin in his hand before shaking hers. The next day she quickly withdrew her hand as he tried to greet her, but still did not recognize him. Since then plenty of discussions of amnesic patients show some form of learning on the part of people without their being aware of it and without it being stored in conscious memory. The scientific name of the distinction between the two memories, the conscious and the nonconscious, is declarative and nondeclarative. Much of the risk avoidance that comes from experiences is part of the second." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"When she shouts that what you did was unforgivable, she has already started to forgive you." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Mother Nature is not perfect, but has so far proven smarter than humans, certainly much smarter than biologists. So my approach is to combine evidence-based research (stripped of biological theory), with an a priori that Mother Nature has more authority than anyone." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Psychologists and economists who study "irrationality" do not realize that humans may have an instinct to procrastinate only when no life is in danger. I do not procrastinate when I see a lion entering my bedroom or fire in my neighbor's library. I do not procrastinate after a severe injury. I do so with unnatural duties and procedures." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Non-skin-in-the-game people don't get simplicity." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"how modernity has destroyed some of the foundations of human values," -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Randomness can be of considerable help with the matter. For there is another, far more entertaining way to make the distinction between the babbler and the thinker. You can sometimes replicate something that can be mistaken for a literary discourse with a Monte Carlo generator but it is not possible randomly to construct a scientific one. Rhetoric can be constructed randomly, but not genuine scientific knowledge. This" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"As a matter of fact, your happiness depends far more on the number of instances of positive feelings, what psychologists call "positive affect," than on their intensity when they hit. In other words, good news is good news first; how good matters rather little. So to have a pleasant life you should spread these small "affects" across time as evenly as possible. Plenty of mildly good news is preferable to one single lump of great news." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"la prova dell'assenza non significa assenza della prova," -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"People who are not morally independent tend to fit ethics to their profession (with a minimum of spinning), rather than find a profession that fits their ethics." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"central illusion in life: that randomness is risky, that it is a bad thing—and that eliminating randomness is done by eliminating randomness." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The notion of standard deviation is meaningless outside of Mediocristan." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"both governments and universities have done very, very little for innovation and discovery, precisely because, in addition to their blinding rationalism, they look for the complicated, the lurid, the newsworthy, the narrated, the scientistic, and the grandiose, rarely for the wheel on the suitcase." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Recognition can be quite a pump. Believe me, even those who genuinely claim that they do not believe in recognition, that they separate labor from the fruits of labor, actually get a serotonin kick from it. See how the silent hero is rewarded: even his own hormonal system will conspire to offer no reward." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"People reserve standard compliments for those who do not threaten their pride; the others they often praise by calling "arrogant." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Think of the difficulty in forecasting in terms of branches growing out of a tree; at every fork we have a multiplication of new branches. To see how our intuitions about these nonlinear multiplicative effects are rather weak," -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"National traits" might be great for movies, they might help a lot with war, but they are Platonic notions that carry no empirical validity—yet, for example, both the English and the non-English erroneously believe in an English "national temperament.") Empirically, sex, social class, and profession seem to be better predictors of someone's behavior than nationality (a male from Sweden resembles a male from Togo more than a female from Sweden; a philosopher from Peru resembles a philosopher from Scotland more than a janitor from Peru; and so on)." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Fragility can be measured; risk is not measurable (outside of casinos or the minds of people who call themselves "risk experts"). This provides a solution to what I've called the Black Swan problem—the impossibility of calculating the risks of consequential rare events and predicting their occurrence. Sensitivity to harm from volatility is tractable, more so than forecasting the event that would cause the harm. So we propose to stand our current approaches to prediction, prognostication, and risk management on their heads. In" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"If you are looking for your misplaced wallet in your living room, in a trial and error mode, you exercise rationality by not looking in the same place twice. In" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Consider the iatrogenics of newspapers. They need to fill their pages every day with a set of news items—particularly those news items also dealt with by other newspapers. But to do things right, they ought to learn to keep silent in the absence of news of significance. Newspapers should be of two-line length on some days, two hundred pages on others—in proportion with the intensity of the signal. But of course they want to make money and need to sell us junk food. And junk food is iatrogenic." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"At a given time in the market, the most successful traders are likely to be those that are best fit to the latest cycle." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Hatred is much harder to fake than love. You hear of fake love; never of fake hate." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Bob Rubin Trade: payoff in a skewed domain where the benefits are visible (and rewarded with some compensation) and the detriment is rare (and unpunished owing to absence of skin in the game). Can be generalized to politics, anything where the penalty is weak and the victims are abstract and distributed (say taxpayers or shareholders)." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"This, perhaps, is true self-confidence: the ability to look at the world without the need to find signs that stroke one's ego." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"It is hard for us to accept that people do not fall in love with works of art only for their own sake, but also in order to feel that they belong to a community. By imitating, we get closer to others—that is, other imitators. It fights solitude." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"a saying from Steve Jobs: "People think focus means saying yes to the thing you've got to focus on. But that's not what it means at all. It means saying no to the hundred other good ideas that there are. You have to pick carefully. I'm actually as proud of the things we haven't done as the things I have done. Innovation is saying no to 1,000 things." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"By setting oneself totally free of constraints, free of thoughts, free of this debilitating activity called work, free of efforts, elements hidden in the texture of reality start staring at you; then mysteries that you never thought existed emerge in front of your eyes." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"In short, the fragilista (medical, economic, social planning) is one who makes you engage in policies and actions, all artificial, in which the benefits are small and visible, and the side effects potentially severe and invisible." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Large corporations and governments do not seem to understand this rebound power of information and its ability to control those who try to control it. When you hear a corporation or a debt-laden government trying to "reinstill confidence" you know they are fragile, hence doomed." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We build toys. Some of those toys change the world." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"is the most antifragile place on the planet; it benefits from shocks that take place in the rest of the world." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"innovation and sophistication spark from initial situations of necessity, in ways that go far beyond the satisfaction of such necessity" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Knowledge, even when it is exact, does not often lead to appropriate actions because we tend to forget what we know, or forget how to process it properly if we do not pay attention, even when we are experts. Statisticians," -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"And, what's worse, we didn't get where we are today thanks to policy makers—but thanks to the appetite for risks and errors of a certain class of people we need to encourage, protect, and respect." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We are not naïve enough to believe that someone will be immortal because we have never seen him die, or that someone is innocent of murder because we have never seen him kill. The problem of naïve generalization does not plague us everywhere. But such smart pockets of inductive skepticism tend to involve events that we have encountered in our natural environment, matters from which we have learned to avoid foolish generalization." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"You may prefer apples to oranges, oranges to pears, but pears to apples—it depends on how the choices are presented to you." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Such trait of absence of marriage to ideas is indeed rare among humans. Just as we do with children, we support those in whom we have a heavy investment of food and time until they are able to propagate our genes, so we do with ideas. An academic who became famous for espousing an opinion is not going to voice anything that can possibly devalue his own past work and kill years of investment. People who switch parties become traitors, renegades, or, worst of all, apostates (those who abandoned their religion were punishable by death)." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"with a Latin saying that sophistication is born out of hunger (artificia docuit fames)." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The test of whether you really liked a book is if you reread it (and how many times); the test of whether you really liked someone's company is if you are ready to meet him again and again—the rest is spin, or that variety of sentiment now called self-esteem." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"L'odio è amore con un piccolo errore da qualche parte nella programmazione: un errore che si potrebbe correggere, ma che è molto difficile trovare" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Atheists are just modern versions of religious fundamentalists: both take religion too literally." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Yet in practice it is the negative that's used by the pros, those selected by evolution: chess grandmasters usually win by not losing; people become rich by not going bust (particularly when others do); religions are mostly about interdicts; the learning of life is about what to avoid. You reduce most of your personal risks of accident thanks to a small number of measures." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"You can replace lies with truth; but myth is only displaced with a narrative." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"If you selected one hundred independent-minded journalists capable of seeing factors in isolation from one another, you would get one hundred different opinions. But the process of having these people report in lockstep caused the dimensionality of the opinion set to shrink considerably—they converged on opinions and used the same items as causes." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"In that sense harboring superstitions is not irrational by any metric: nobody has managed to build a criterion for rationality based on actions that bear no cost. But actions that harm you are detectable, if not observable." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Chiedere alla scienza di spiegare la vita, e questioni vitali, è come chiedere a un grammatico di spiegare la poesia" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"the more cultured they are, the more they will be trapped into thinking that they are effective at what they are doing in real business (something psychologists call the halo effect, the mistake of thinking that skills in, say, skiing translate unfailingly into skills in managing a pottery workshop or a bank department, or that a good chess player would be a good strategist in real life).2" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"teleological" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Never pay for complexity of presentation when all you need is results." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Egomaniac" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A donkey equally famished and thirsty caught at an equal distance between food and water would unavoidably die of hunger or thirst. But he can be saved thanks to a random nudge one way or the other. This metaphor is named Buridan's Donkey, after the medieval philosopher Jean de Buridan, who—among other, very complicated things—introduced the thought experiment. When some systems are stuck in a dangerous impasse, randomness and only randomness can unlock them and set them free. You can see here that absence of randomness equals guaranteed death." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"The longer one goes without a market trauma, the worse the damage when commotion occurs." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Being an executive does not require very developed frontal lobes, but rather a combination of charisma, a capacity to sustain boredom, and the ability to shallowly perform on harrying schedules." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"At no point in history have so many non-risk-takers, that is, those with no personal exposure, exerted so much control. The chief ethical rule is the following: Thou shalt not have antifragility at the expense of the fragility of others." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Popper's falsificationism is intimately connected to the notion of an open society. An open society is one in which no permanent truth is held to exist; this would allow counter-ideas to emerge. Karl Popper shared ideas with his friend, the low-key economist von Hayek, who endorsed capitalism as a state in which prices can disseminate information that bureaucratic socialism would choke. Both notions of falsificationism and open society are, counterintuitively, connected to those of a rigorous method for handling randomness in my day job as a trader. Clearly, an open mind is a necessity when dealing with randomness. Popper believed that any idea of Utopia is necessarily closed owing to the fact that it chokes its own refutations." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Citizenship de Plaisance" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Tu esisti pienamente se e solo se la tua conversazione (o i tuoi scritti) non possono essere facilmente ricostruiti con ritagli da altre conversazioni" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"And professions can be serial: something very safe, then something speculative. A friend of mine built himself a very secure profession as a book editor, in which he was known to be very good. Then, after a decade or so, he left completely for something speculative and highly risky. This is a true barbell in every sense of the word: he can fall back on his previous profession should the speculation fail, or fail to bring the expected satisfaction. This is what Seneca elected to do: he initially had a very active, adventurous life, followed by a philosophical withdrawal to write and meditate, rather than a "middle" combination of both. Many of the "doers" turned "thinkers" like Montaigne have done a serial barbell: pure action, then pure reflection." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"For the classics, philosophical insight was the product of a life of leisure; for me, a life of leisure is the product of philosophical insight." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Человек неравенство свободен, если... он судит о мире и других людях с бескомпромиссной искренностью" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"There is something like a switch in us that kills the individual in favor of the collective when people engage in communal dances, mass riots, or war. Your mood is now that of the herd. You are part of what Elias Canetti calls the rhythmic and throbbing crowd. You can also feel a different variety of crowd experience during your next street riot, when fear of authorities vanishes completely under group fever." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Should we go into people's inner and private thoughts and motivations, we would see that their wishes and hopes are almost invariably at someone else's expense." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Sei vivo in proporzione inversa alla densità delle frasi fatte che usi nei tuoi scritti" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I don't mean just you, your cousin Joey, and me, but almost all "social scientists" who, for over a century, have operated under the false belief that their tools could measure uncertainty" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"the following simple exercise concerning the prediction of the movements of billiard balls on a table. I use the example as computed by the mathematician Michael Berry. If you know a set of basic parameters concerning the ball at rest, can compute the resistance of the table (quite elementary), and can gauge the strength of the impact, then it is rather easy to predict what would happen at the first hit. The second impact becomes more complicated, but possible; you need to be more careful about your knowledge of the initial states, and more precision is called for. The problem is that to correctly compute the ninth impact, you need to take into account the gravitational pull of someone standing next to the table (modestly, Berry's computations use a weight of less than 150 pounds). And to compute the fifty-sixth impact, every single elementary particle of the universe needs to be present in your assumptions!" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"più la risposta è non lineare, meno rilevante è la media e più importante è la stabilità intorno a questa media." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Platonicity is what makes us think that we understand more than we actually do. But this does not happen everywhere. I am not saying that Platonic forms don't exist. Models and constructions, these intellectual maps of reality, are not always wrong; they are wrong only in some specific applications. The difficulty is that a) you do not know beforehand (only after the fact) where the map will be wrong, and b) the mistakes can lead to severe consequences. These models are like potentially helpful medicines that carry random but very severe side effects." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Contrary to conventional wisdom, our body of knowledge does not increase from a series of confirmatory observations, like" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"anything locked into planning tends to fail precisely because of these attributes—it is quite a myth that planning helps corporations: in fact we saw that the world is too random and unpredictable to base a policy on visibility of the future. What survives comes from the interplay of some fitness and environmental conditions." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"In any type of activity or business divorced from the direct filter of skin in the game, the great majority of people know the jargon, play the part, and are intimate with the cosmetic details, but are clueless about the subject." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"-scholarship without erudition and natural curiosity can close your mind and lead to the fragmentation of disciplines." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"But in all my experience, I have never been in any accident… of any sort worth speaking about. I have seen but one vessel in distress in all my years at sea. I never saw a wreck and never have been wrecked nor was I ever in any predicament that threatened to end in disaster of any sort. E. J. Smith, 1907, Captain, RMS Titanic" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"So we can learn a lot from data—but not as much as we expect. Sometimes a lot of data can be meaningless; at other times one single piece of information can be very meaningful. It" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We remember the martyrs who died for a cause that we knew about, never those no less effective in their contribution but whose cause we were never aware of—precisely because they were successful. Our ingratitude toward the poètes maudits fades completely in front of this other type of thanklessness. This is a far more vicious kind of ingratitude: the feeling of uselessness on the part of the silent hero. I will illustrate with the following thought experiment. Assume that a legislator with courage, influence, intellect, vision, and perseverance manages to enact a law that goes into universal effect and employment on September 10, 2001; it imposes the continuously locked bulletproof doors in every cockpit (at high costs to the struggling airlines)—just in case terrorists decide to use planes to attack the World Trade Center in New York City. I know this is lunacy, but it is just a thought experiment (I am aware that there may be no such thing as a legislator with intellect, courage, vision, and perseverance; this is the point of the thought experiment). The legislation is not a popular measure among the airline personnel, as it complicates their lives. But it would certainly have prevented 9/11. The person who imposed locks on cockpit doors gets no statues in public squares, not so much as a quick mention of his contribution in his obituary. "Joe Smith, who helped avoid the disaster of 9/11, died of complications of liver disease." Seeing how superfluous his measure was, and how it squandered resources, the public, with great help from airline pilots, might well boot him out of office. Vox clamantis in deserto. He will retire depressed, with a great sense of failure. He will die with the impression of having done nothing useful." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"scientists are seeing more and more evidence that we are specifically designed by mother nature to fool ourselves." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"of" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Capitalism is, among other things, the revitalization of the world thanks to the opportunity to be lucky. Luck is the grand equalizer, because almost everyone can benefit from it. The socialist governments protected their monsters and, by doing so, killed potential newcomers in the womb. Everything is transitory. Luck both made and unmade Carthage; it both made and unmade Rome." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A mild degree of unpredictability in your behavior can help you to protect yourself in situations of conflict. Say" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Asta este, probabil, adevărata încredere în sine: abilitatea de a privi lumea fără a simți nevoia să găsim semne care să ne măgulească." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Extremistán no siempre implica Cisnes Negros. Algunos sucesos pueden ser raros y trascendentales, aunque de algún modo predecibles, sobre todo para aquellos que están preparados para ellos y disponen de las herramientas para comprenderlos" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"this" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Courage (risk taking) is the highest virtue. We need entrepreneurs." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"What you know cannot really hurt you." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"At no point in history have so many non-risk-takers, that is, those with no personal exposure, exerted so much control. The chief ethical rule is the following: Thou shalt not have antifragility at the expense of the fragility of others." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Popper's falsificationism is intimately connected to the notion of an open society. An open society is one in which no permanent truth is held to exist; this would allow counter-ideas to emerge. Karl Popper shared ideas with his friend, the low-key economist von Hayek, who endorsed capitalism as a state in which prices can disseminate information that bureaucratic socialism would choke. Both notions of falsificationism and open society are, counterintuitively, connected to those of a rigorous method for handling randomness in my day job as a trader. Clearly, an open mind is a necessity when dealing with randomness. Popper believed that any idea of Utopia is necessarily closed owing to the fact that it chokes its own refutations." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Citizenship de Plaisance" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Tu esisti pienamente se e solo se la tua conversazione (o i tuoi scritti) non possono essere facilmente ricostruiti con ritagli da altre conversazioni" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"And professions can be serial: something very safe, then something speculative. A friend of mine built himself a very secure profession as a book editor, in which he was known to be very good. Then, after a decade or so, he left completely for something speculative and highly risky. This is a true barbell in every sense of the word: he can fall back on his previous profession should the speculation fail, or fail to bring the expected satisfaction. This is what Seneca elected to do: he initially had a very active, adventurous life, followed by a philosophical withdrawal to write and meditate, rather than a "middle" combination of both. Many of the "doers" turned "thinkers" like Montaigne have done a serial barbell: pure action, then pure reflection." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"For the classics, philosophical insight was the product of a life of leisure; for me, a life of leisure is the product of philosophical insight." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Человек неравенство свободен, если... он судит о мире и других людях с бескомпромиссной искренностью" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"There is something like a switch in us that kills the individual in favor of the collective when people engage in communal dances, mass riots, or war. Your mood is now that of the herd. You are part of what Elias Canetti calls the rhythmic and throbbing crowd. You can also feel a different variety of crowd experience during your next street riot, when fear of authorities vanishes completely under group fever." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Should we go into people's inner and private thoughts and motivations, we would see that their wishes and hopes are almost invariably at someone else's expense." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Sei vivo in proporzione inversa alla densità delle frasi fatte che usi nei tuoi scritti" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"I don't mean just you, your cousin Joey, and me, but almost all "social scientists" who, for over a century, have operated under the false belief that their tools could measure uncertainty" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"the following simple exercise concerning the prediction of the movements of billiard balls on a table. I use the example as computed by the mathematician Michael Berry. If you know a set of basic parameters concerning the ball at rest, can compute the resistance of the table (quite elementary), and can gauge the strength of the impact, then it is rather easy to predict what would happen at the first hit. The second impact becomes more complicated, but possible; you need to be more careful about your knowledge of the initial states, and more precision is called for. The problem is that to correctly compute the ninth impact, you need to take into account the gravitational pull of someone standing next to the table (modestly, Berry's computations use a weight of less than 150 pounds). And to compute the fifty-sixth impact, every single elementary particle of the universe needs to be present in your assumptions!" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"più la risposta è non lineare, meno rilevante è la media e più importante è la stabilità intorno a questa media." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Platonicity is what makes us think that we understand more than we actually do. But this does not happen everywhere. I am not saying that Platonic forms don't exist. Models and constructions, these intellectual maps of reality, are not always wrong; they are wrong only in some specific applications. The difficulty is that a) you do not know beforehand (only after the fact) where the map will be wrong, and b) the mistakes can lead to severe consequences. These models are like potentially helpful medicines that carry random but very severe side effects." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Contrary to conventional wisdom, our body of knowledge does not increase from a series of confirmatory observations, like" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"anything locked into planning tends to fail precisely because of these attributes—it is quite a myth that planning helps corporations: in fact we saw that the world is too random and unpredictable to base a policy on visibility of the future. What survives comes from the interplay of some fitness and environmental conditions." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"In any type of activity or business divorced from the direct filter of skin in the game, the great majority of people know the jargon, play the part, and are intimate with the cosmetic details, but are clueless about the subject." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"-scholarship without erudition and natural curiosity can close your mind and lead to the fragmentation of disciplines." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"But in all my experience, I have never been in any accident… of any sort worth speaking about. I have seen but one vessel in distress in all my years at sea. I never saw a wreck and never have been wrecked nor was I ever in any predicament that threatened to end in disaster of any sort. E. J. Smith, 1907, Captain, RMS Titanic" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"So we can learn a lot from data—but not as much as we expect. Sometimes a lot of data can be meaningless; at other times one single piece of information can be very meaningful. It" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"We remember the martyrs who died for a cause that we knew about, never those no less effective in their contribution but whose cause we were never aware of—precisely because they were successful. Our ingratitude toward the poètes maudits fades completely in front of this other type of thanklessness. This is a far more vicious kind of ingratitude: the feeling of uselessness on the part of the silent hero. I will illustrate with the following thought experiment. Assume that a legislator with courage, influence, intellect, vision, and perseverance manages to enact a law that goes into universal effect and employment on September 10, 2001; it imposes the continuously locked bulletproof doors in every cockpit (at high costs to the struggling airlines)—just in case terrorists decide to use planes to attack the World Trade Center in New York City. I know this is lunacy, but it is just a thought experiment (I am aware that there may be no such thing as a legislator with intellect, courage, vision, and perseverance; this is the point of the thought experiment). The legislation is not a popular measure among the airline personnel, as it complicates their lives. But it would certainly have prevented 9/11. The person who imposed locks on cockpit doors gets no statues in public squares, not so much as a quick mention of his contribution in his obituary. "Joe Smith, who helped avoid the disaster of 9/11, died of complications of liver disease." Seeing how superfluous his measure was, and how it squandered resources, the public, with great help from airline pilots, might well boot him out of office. Vox clamantis in deserto. He will retire depressed, with a great sense of failure. He will die with the impression of having done nothing useful." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"scientists are seeing more and more evidence that we are specifically designed by mother nature to fool ourselves." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"of" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Capitalism is, among other things, the revitalization of the world thanks to the opportunity to be lucky. Luck is the grand equalizer, because almost everyone can benefit from it. The socialist governments protected their monsters and, by doing so, killed potential newcomers in the womb. Everything is transitory. Luck both made and unmade Carthage; it both made and unmade Rome." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"A mild degree of unpredictability in your behavior can help you to protect yourself in situations of conflict. Say" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Asta este, probabil, adevărata încredere în sine: abilitatea de a privi lumea fără a simți nevoia să găsim semne care să ne măgulească." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Extremistán no siempre implica Cisnes Negros. Algunos sucesos pueden ser raros y trascendentales, aunque de algún modo predecibles, sobre todo para aquellos que están preparados para ellos y disponen de las herramientas para comprenderlos" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"this" -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"Courage (risk taking) is the highest virtue. We need entrepreneurs." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
"What you know cannot really hurt you." -Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
