"Everyone sees what you appear to be, few experience what you really are." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"If an injury has to be done to a man it should be so severe that his vengeance need not be feared." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"The first method for estimating the intelligence of a ruler is to look at the men he has around him." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"The lion cannot protect himself from traps, and the fox cannot defend himself from wolves. One must therefore be a fox to recognize traps, and a lion to frighten wolves." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"There is no other way to guard yourself against flattery than by making men understand that telling you the truth will not offend you." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Never was anything great achieved without danger." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Never attempt to win by force what can be won by deception." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"it is much safer to be feared than loved because ...love is preserved by the link of obligation which, owing to the baseness of men, is broken at every opportunity for their advantage; but fear preserves you by a dread of punishment which never fails." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"People should either be caressed or crushed. If you do them minor damage they will get their revenge; but if you cripple them there is nothing they can do. If you need to injure someone, do it in such a way that you do not have to fear their vengeance." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"I'm not interested in preserving the status quo; I want to overthrow it." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Men are driven by two principal impulses, either by love or by fear." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Because there are three classes of intellects: one which comprehends by itself; another which appreciates what others comprehend; and a third which neither comprehends by itself nor by the showing of others; the first is the most excellent, the second is good, the third is useless." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"All courses of action are risky, so prudence is not in avoiding danger (it's impossible), but calculating risk and acting decisively. Make mistakes of ambition and not mistakes of sloth. Develop the strength to do bold things, not the strength to suffer." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"It is not titles that honour men, but men that honour titles." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"How we live is so different from how we ought to live that he who studies what ought to be done rather than what is done will learn the way to his downfall rather than to his preservation." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"…he who seeks to deceive will always find someone who will allow himself to be deceived." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Men in general judge more by the sense of sight than by the sense of touch, because everyone can see but few can test by feeling. Everyone sees what you seem to be, few know what you really are; and those few do not dare take a stand against the general opinion." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Where the willingness is great, the difficulties cannot be great." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Since love and fear can hardly exist together, if we must choose between them, it is far safer to be feared than loved" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"The vulgar crowd always is taken by appearances, and the world consists chiefly of the vulgar." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"He who wishes to be obeyed must know how to command" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Men are so simple of mind, and so much dominated by their immediate needs, that a deceitful man will always find plenty who are ready to be deceived." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"A man who is used to acting in one way never changes; he must come to ruin when the times, in changing, no longer are in harmony with his ways." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"A prudent man should always follow in the path trodden by great men and imitate those who are most excellent, so that if he does not attain to their greatness, at any rate he will get some tinge of it." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"There is nothing more important than appearing to be religious." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Any man who tries to be good all the time is bound to come to ruin among the great number who are not good. Hence a prince who wants to keep his authority must learn how not to be good, and use that knowledge, or refrain from using it, as necessity requires." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Of mankind we may say in general they are fickle, hypocritical, and greedy of gain." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Whosoever desires constant success must change his conduct with the times." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"And here comes in the question whether it is better to be loved rather than feared, or feared rather than loved. It might perhaps be answered that we should wish to be both; but since love and fear can hardly exist together, if we must choose between them, it is far safer to be feared than loved." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"It must be remembered that there is nothing more difficult to plan, more doubtful of success, nor more dangerous to manage than a new system. For the initiator has the enmity of all who would profit by the preservation of the old institution and merely lukewarm defenders in those who gain by the new ones. " -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Wisdom consists of knowing how to distinguish the nature of trouble, and in choosing the lesser evil." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Every one sees what you appear to be, few really know what you are." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Appear as you may wish to be" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"It must be considered that there is nothing more difficult to carry out, nor more doubtful of success, nor more dangerous to handle, than to initiate a new order of things." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Men in general judge more from appearances than from reality. All men have eyes, but few have the gift of penetration." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Therefore, it is necessary to be a fox to discover the snares and a lion to terrify the wolves" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Men ought either to be well treated or crushed, because they can avenge themselves of lighter injuries, of more serious ones they cannot; therefore the injury that is to be done to a man ought to be of such a kind that one does not stand in fear of revenge." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"When evening comes, I return home and go into my study. On the threshold I strip off my muddy, sweaty, workday clothes, and put on the robes of court and palace, and in this graver dress I enter the antique courts of the ancients and am welcomed by them, and there I taste the food that alone is mine, and for which I was born. And there I make bold to speak to them and ask the motives of their actions, and they, in their humanity, reply to me. And for the space of four hours I forget the world, remember no vexation, fear poverty no more, tremble no more at death: I pass indeed into their world." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"He who becomes a Prince through the favour of the people should always keep on good terms with them; which it is easy for him to do, since all they ask is not to be oppressed" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"There is no avoiding war, it can only be postponed to the advantage of your enemy." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"it is better to act and repent than not to act and regret." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"In conclusion, the arms of others either fall from your back, or they weigh you down, or they bind you fast." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"He who builds on the people, builds on the mud" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Men judge generally more by the eye than by the hand, for everyone can see and few can feel. Every one sees what you appear to be, few really know what you are." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"It ought to be remembered that there is nothing more difficult to take in hand, more perilous to conduct, or more uncertain in its success, than to take the lead in the introduction of a new order of things. Because the innovator has for enemies all those who have done well under the old conditions, and lukewarm defenders in those who may do well under the new. This coolness arises partly from fear of the opponents, who have the laws on their side, and partly from the incredulity of men, who do not readily believe in new things until they have had a long experience of them." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Nature creates few men brave, industry and training makes many." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Everyone who wants to know what will happen ought to examine what has happened: everything in this world in any epoch has their replicas in antiquity." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"A prince must not have any other object nor any other thought… but war, its institutions, and its discipline; because that is the only art befitting one who commands." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Half of these aren't even Machiavelli.Some are Plato, Thucydides etc....doesnt anyone check these?" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Men never do good unless necessity drives them to it; but when they are free to choose and can do just as they please, confusion and disorder become rampant." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Therefore it is unnecessary for a prince to have all the good qualities I have enumerated, but it is very necessary to appear to have them. And I shall dare to say this also, that to have them and always to observe them is injurious, and that to appear to have them is useful; to appear merciful, faithful, humane, religious, upright, and to be so, but with a mind so framed that should you require not to be so, you may be able and know how to change to the opposite." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"I conclude therefore that, fortune being changeful and mankind steadfast in their ways, so long as the two are in agreement men are successful, but unsuccessful when they fall out. For my part I consider that it is better to be adventurous than cautious, because fortune is a woman, and if you wish to keep her under it is necessary to beat and ill-use her; and it is seen that she allows herself to be mastered by the adventurous rather than by those who go to work more coldly. She is, therefore, always, woman-like, a lover of young men, because they are less cautious, more violent, and with more audacity command her." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"When evening has come, I return to my house and go into my study. At the door I take off my clothes of the day, covered with mud and mire, and I put on my regal and courtly garments; and decently reclothed, I enter the ancient courts of ancient men, where, received by them lovingly, I feed on the food that alone is mine and that I was born for. There I am not ashamed to speak with them and to ask them the reason for their actions; and they in their humanity reply to me. And for the space of four hours I feel no boredom, I forget every pain, I do not fear poverty, death does not frighten me. I deliver myself entirely to them." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"One can say this in general of men: they are ungrateful, disloyal, insincere and deceitful, timid of danger and avid of profit...Love is a bond of obligation that these miserable creatures break whenever it suits them to do so; but fear holds them fast by a dread of punishment that never passes." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"One should never fall in the belief that you can find someone to pick you up." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"I hold strongly to this: that it is better to be impetuous than circumspect; because fortune is a woman and if she is to be submissive it is necessary to beat and coerce her." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Men sooner forget the death of their father than the loss of their patrimony" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"My view is that it is desirable to be both loved and feared; but it is difficult to achieve both and, if one of them has to be lacking, it is much safer to be feared than loved." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Therefore the best fortress is to be found in the love of the people, for although you may have fortresses they will not save you if you are hated by the people." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"It is better to be feared than loved, if you cannot be both." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"He who is highly esteemed is not easily conspired against" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"CHAPTER VIConcerning New Principalities Which Are Acquired By One's Own Arms And AbilityLET no one be surprised if, in speaking of entirely new principalities as I shall do, I adduce the highest examples both of prince and of state; because men, walking almost always in paths beaten by others, and following by imitation their deeds, are yet unable to keep entirely to the ways of others or attain to the power of those they imitate. A wise man ought always to follow the paths beaten by great men, and to imitate those who have been supreme, so that if his ability does not equal theirs, at least it will savour of it. Let him act like the clever archers who, designing to hit the mark which yet appears too far distant, and knowing the limits to which the strength of their bow attains, take aim much higher than the mark, not to reach by their strength or arrow to so great a height, but to be able with the aid of so high an aim to hit the mark they wish to reach." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"The best fortress which a prince can possess is the affection of his people." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"For one change always leaves a dovetail into which another will fit." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Men intrinsically do not trust new things that they have not experienced themselves." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"It's better to be impulsive than cautious; fortune is female and if you want to stay on top of her you have to slap and thrust. You'll see she's more likely to yield that way than to men who go about her coldly. And being a woman she likes her men young, because they're not so cagey, they're wilder and more daring when they master her." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Men are so simple and so much inclined to obey immediate needs that a deceiver will never lack victims for his deceptions." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Keep your friends close, keep your enemies closer." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"And it ought to be remembered that there is nothing more difficult to take in hand, more perilous to conduct, or more uncertain in its success, than to take the lead in the introduction of a new order of things." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"For it must be noted, that men must either be caressed or else annihilated; they will revenge themselves for small injuries, but cannot do so for great ones; the injury therefore that we do to a man must be such that we need not fear his vengeance." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"It is double pleasure to deceive the deceiver." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Is it better to be loved or feared?" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Men desire novelty to such an extent that those who are doing well wish for a change as much as those who are doing badly." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"A prudent man will always try to follow in the footsteps of great men and imitate those who have been truly outstanding, so that, if he is not quite as skillful as they, at least some of their ability may rub off on him." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"For, in truth, there is no sure way of holding other than by destroying" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"A prince is also esteemed when he is a true friend and a true enemy." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"And truly it is a very natural and ordinary thing to desire to acquire, and always, when men do it who can, they will be praised or not blamed; but when they cannot, and wish to do it anyway, here lies the error and the blame." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"He who causes another to become powerful ruins himself, for he brings such a power into being either by design or by force, and both of these elements are suspects to the one whom he has made powerful." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"When everyone feels free to tell you the truth, respect for you dwindles… A wise prince should take another course: choose wise men for your advisors, and allow only them the liberty of speaking the truth to the prince, and only on matters about which you ask, and nothing else. But you should question them about everything, listen patiently to their opinions, then form your own conclusions later." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"There is no other way of guarding against adulation, than to make people understand that they will not offend you by speaking the truth. On the other hand, when everyone feels at liberty to tell you the truth, they will be apt to be lacking in respect to you." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Everything that occurs in the world, in every epoch, has something that corresponds to it in ancient times." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"the wise man should always follow the roads that have been trodden by the great, and imitate those who have most excelled, so that if he cannot reach their perfection, he may at least acquire something of its savour." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"I desire to go to Hell and not to Heaven. In the former I shall enjoy the company of popes, kings and princes, while in the latter are only beggars, monks and apostles." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"For whoever believes that great advancement and new benefits make men forget old injuries is mistaken." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"It is necessary for a prince wishing to hold his own to know how to do wrong, and to make use of it or not according to necessity." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Being feared and not hated go well together, and the prince can always do this if he does not touch the property or the women of his citizens and subjects." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"But when you disarm them, you at once offend them by showing that you distrust them, either for cowardice or for want of loyalty, and either of these opinions breeds hatred against you." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Therefore any cruelty has to be executed at once, so that the less it is tasted, the less it offends; while benefits must be dispensed little by little, so that they will be savored all the more." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"...the incredulity of mankind, who do not truly believe in anything new until they have had actual experience of it." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Men should be either treated generously or destroyed, because they take revenge for slight injuries - for heavy ones they cannot." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"The nature of man is such that people consider themselves put under an obligation as much by the benefits they confer as by those they receive." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Quod Principi plaevit habet legis vigorem" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"In peace one is despoiled by the mercenaries, in war by one's enemies." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Thus it is well to seem merciful, faithful, humane, sincere, religious, and also to be so; but you must have the mind so disposed that when it is needful to be otherwise you may be able to change to the opposite qualities. And it must be understood that a prince, and especially a new prince, cannot observe all those things which are considered good in men, being often obliged, in order to maintain the state, to act against faith, against charity, against humanity, and against religion. And, therefore, he must have a mind disposed to adapt itself according to the wind, and as the variations of fortune dictate, and, as I said before, not deviate from what is good, if possible, but be able to do evil if constrained." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Men must either be caressed or else destroyed." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"En general, los hombres juzgan más por los ojos que por la inteligencia, pues todos pueden ver, pero pocos comprenden lo que ven." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"One must be a fox in order to recognize traps, and a lion to frighten off wolves. Those who simply act like lions are stupid." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"A man who wishes to profess at all times will come to ruin among so many who are not good." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"The Romans never allowed a trouble spot to remain simply to avoid going to war over it, because they knew that wars don't just go away, they are only postponed to someone else's advantage. Therefore, they made war with Philip and Antiochus in Greece, in order not to have to fight them in Italy... They never went by that saying which you constantly hear from the wiseacres of our day, that time heals all things. They trusted rather their own character and prudence— knowing perfectly well that time contains the seeds of all things, good as well as bad." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"..it happens in all human affairs that we never seek to escape one mischief without falling into another. Prudence therefore consists in knowing how to distinguish degrees of disadvantage, and in accepting a less evil as a good." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"It is a common fault of men not to reckon on storms in fair weather." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Returning to the question of being feared or loved, I conclude that since men love at their own will and fear at the will of the prince, a wise prince must build a foundation on what is his own, and not on what belongs to others." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Without an opportunity, their abilities would have been wasted, and without their abilities, the opportunity would have arisen in vain." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"For however strong you may be in respect of your army, it is essential that in entering a new Province you should have the good will of its inhabitants." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"For that reason, let a prince have the credit of conquering and holding his state, the means will always be considered honest, and he will be praised by everybody because the vulgar are always taken by what a thing seems to be and by what comes of it; and in the world there are only the vulgar, for the few find a place there only when the many have no ground to rest on." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Princes and governments are far more dangerous than other elements within society." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Vale más hacer y arrepentirse, que no hacer y arrepentirse." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Any injury we do to a man must be such that we need not fear his vengeance." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"For when you are on the spot, disorders are detected in their beginnings and remedies can be readily applied; but when you are at a distance, they are not heard of until they have gathered strength and the case is past cure." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Never do an enemy a small injury." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"For a Monarchy readily becomes a Tyranny, an Aristocracy an Oligarchy, while a Democracy tends to degenerate into Anarchy. So that if the founder of a State should establish any one of these three forms of Government, he establishes it for a short time only, since no precaution he may take can prevent it from sliding into its contrary, by reason of the close resemblance which, in this case, the virtue bears to the vice." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Whoever desires to found a state and give it laws, must start with assuming that all men are bad and ever ready to display their vicious nature, whenever they may find occasion for it." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Men will not look at things as they really are, but as they wish them to be - and are ruined" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"...the manner in which we live, and that in which we ought to live, are things so wide asunder, that he who quits the one to betake himself to the other is more likely to destroy than to save himself; since any one who would act up to a perfect standard of goodness in everything, must be ruined among so many who are not good." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"As a general thing anyone who is not your friend will advise neutrality while anyone who is your friend will ask you to join him, weapon in hand." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"A wise man ought always to follow the paths beaten by great men, and to imitate those who have been supreme, so that if his ability does not equal theirs, at least it will savor of it. Let him act like the clever archers who, designing to hit the mark which yet appears too far distant, and knowing the limits to which the strength of their bow attains, take aim much higher than the mark, not to reach by their strength or arrow to so great a height, but to be able with the aid of so high an aim to hit the mark they wish to reach" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"And let it here be noted that men are either to be kindly treated, or utterly crushed, since they can revenge lighter injuries, but not graver. Wherefore the injury we do to a man should be of a sort to leave no fear of reprisals." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"It is of the greatest important in this world that a man should know himself, and the measure of his own strength and means; and he who knows that he has not a genius for fighting must learn how to govern by the arts of peace." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"All the States and Governments by which men are or ever have been ruled, have been and are either Republics or Princedoms." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"It is safer to be feared than loved" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Men nearly always follow the tracks made by others and proceed in their affairs by imitation, even though they cannot entirely keep to the tracks of others or emulate the prowess of their models. So a prudent man should always follow in the footsteps of great men and imitate those who have been outstanding. If his own prowess fails to compare with theirs, at least it has an air of greatness about it. He should behave like those archers who, if they are skilful, when the target seems too distant, know the capabilities of their bow and aim a good deal higher than their objective, not in order to shoot so high but so that by aiming high they can reach the target." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"It was the verdict of ancient writers that men afflict themselves in evil and weary themselves in the good, and that the same effects result from both of these passions. For whenever men are not obliged to fight from necessity, they fight from ambition; which is so powerful in human breasts, that it never leaves them no matter to what rank they rise. The reason is that nature has so created men that they are able to desire everything but are not able to attain everything: so that the desire being always greater than the acquisition, there results discontent with the possession and little satisfaction to themselves from it. From this arises the changes in their fortunes; for as men desire, some to have more, some in fear of losing their acquisition, there ensues enmity and war, from which results the ruin of that province and the elevation of another." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Among other evils which being unarmed brings you, it causes you to be despised." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"when they depend upon their own resources and can employ force, they seldom fail. Hence it comes that all armed Prophets have been victorious, and all unarmed Prophets have been destroyed." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Necessity is what impels men to take action, and once necessity is gone, only rot and decay are left" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"And he who becomes master of a city accustomed to freedom and does not destroy it may expect to be destroyed by it, for in rebellion it has always the watchword of liberty and its ancient privileges as a rallying point, which neither time nor benefits will ever cause it to forget." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"يمحو النصر آثار أكثر الأعمال فشلا، فيما تجهض الهزيمة أكثر الخطط تنظيما" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Therefore a wise prince ought to adopt such a course that his citizens will always in every sort and kind of circumstance have need of the state and of him, and then he will always find them faithful." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"There are three classes of intellects: one which comprehends by itself; another which appreciates what others comprehend; and a third which neither comprehends by itself nor by the showing of others; the first is the most excellent, the second is good, and the third is useless.." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"This is to be asserted in general of men, that they are ungrateful, fickle, false, cowardly, covetous and as long as you succeed they are yours entirely; they will offer you their blood, property, life and children when the need is far distant; but when it approaches they turn against you." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"God creates men, but they choose each other." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Nevertheless, that our freewill may not be altogether extinguished, I think it may be true that fortune is the ruler of half our actions, but that she allows the other half or a little less to be governed by us." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"And as the observance of religious teaching is the cause of the greatness of republics, similarly, disdain for it is the cause of their ruin. For where the fear of God is lacking, the state must necessarily either come to ruin or be held together by the fear of a prince that will compensate for the lack of religion." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Though fraud in all other actions be odious, yet in matters of war it is laudable and glorious, and he who overcomes his enemies by stratagem is as much to be praised as he who overcomes them by force." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"It is a common fault not to anticipate storms when the sea is calm." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"This raises the question whether it is better to be loved than feared, or the contrary. My reply is that I would like to be both but as it is difficult to combine love and fear, if one has to choose between them it is far safer to be feared than loved" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"And you have to understand this, that a prince, especially a new one, cannot observe all those things for which men are esteemed, being often forced, in order to maintain the state, to act contrary to faith, friendship, humanity, and religion. ' The Prince, XVIII, 5" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Thus it is well to seem merciful faithful humane religious and upright and also to be so but the mind should remain so balanced that were it needful not to be so you should be able and know how to change to the contrary." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"It is not titles that honor men, but men that honor titles." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"And what physicians say about consumptive illnesses is applicable here: that at the beginning, such an illness is easy to cure but difficult to diagnose; but as time passes, not having been recognized or treated at the outset, it becomes easy to diagnose but difficult to cure." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"he who is the cause of another becoming powerful is ruined; because that predominancy has been brought about either by astuteness or else by force, and both are distrusted by him who has been raised to power." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"if you wish to please me, and to bring success and honour to yourself, do right and study, because others will help you if you help yourself." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"The people, as Cicero says, may be ignorant, but they can recognize the truth and will readily yield when some trustworthy man explains it to them." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"He said that it always struck him with surprise that while men in buying an earthen or glass vase would sound it first to learn if it were good, yet in choosing a wife they were content with only looking at her." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"For the friendships which we buy with a price, and do not gain by greatness and nobility of character, though they be fairly earned are not made good, but fail us when we have occasion to use them." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"For a Monarchy readily becomes a Tyranny, an Aristocracy an Oligarchy, while a Democracy tends to degenerate into Anarchy." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"If you only notice human proceedings, you may observe that all who attain great power and riches, make use of either force or fraud; and what they have acquired either by deceit or violence, in order to conceal the disgraceful methods of attainment, they endeavor to sanctify with the false title of honest gains. Those who either from imprudence or want of sagacity avoid doing so, are always overwhelmed with servitude and poverty; for faithful servants are always servants, and honest men are always poor; nor do any ever escape from servitude but the bold and faithless, or from poverty, but the rapacious and fraudulent. God and nature have thrown all human fortunes into the midst of mankind; and they are thus attainable rather by rapine than by industry, by wicked actions rather than by good. Hence it is that men feed upon each other, and those who cannot defend themselves must be worried." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"For on Cardinal Rohan saying to me that the Italians did not understand war, I replied that the French did not understand politics." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Many have imagined republics and principalities which have never been seen or known to exist in reality, for how we live is so far removed from how we ought to live, that he who abandons what is done for what ought to be done will rather bring about his ruin than his preservation." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"That defense alone is effectual, sure and durable which depends upon yourself and your own valour." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"To defeat Fortune, men must anticipate such evils before they arise, and take prudent steps to avoid them. When the waters have already risen, it is too late to build dikes and embankments." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"And in examining their life and deeds it will be seen that they owed nothing to fortune but the opportunity which gave them matter to be shaped into the form that they thought fit; and without that opportunity their powers would have been wasted, and without their powers the opportunity would have come in vain." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Whence we may draw the general axiom, which never or rarely errs, that he who is the cause of another's greatness is himself undone, since he must work either by address or force, each of which excites distrust in the person raised to power." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"When a newly acquired State has been accustomed, as I have said, to live under its own laws and in freedom, there are three methods whereby it may be held. The first is to destroy it; the second, to go and reside there in person; the third, to suffer it to live on under its own laws, subjecting it to a tribute, and entrusting its government to a few of the inhabitants who will keep the rest your friends. Such a Government, since it is the creature of the new Prince, will see that it cannot stand without his protection and support, and must therefore do all it can to maintain him; and a city accustomed to live in freedom, if it is to be preserved at all, is more easily controlled through its own citizens than in any other way." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"men live peacefully as long as their old way of life is maintained and there is no change in customs." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"For, although one may be very strong in armed forces, yet in entering a province one has always need of the goodwill of the natives." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Verträge bricht man um des Nutzens willen." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Moreover, a Republic trusting to her own forces, is with greater difficulty than one which relies on foreign arms brought to yield obedience to a single citizen. Rome and Sparta remained for ages armed and free. The Swiss are at once the best armed and the freest people in the world." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"There are many who think a wise prince ought, when he has the chance, to foment astutely some enmity, so that by suppressing it he will augment his greatness." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"It is better to be feared than to be loved, if you can not be both" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"For, besides what has been said, it should be borne in mind that the temper of the multitude is fickle, and that while it is easy to persuade them of a thing, it is hard to fix them in that persuasion. Wherefore, matters should be so ordered that when men no longer believe of their own accord, they may be compelled to believe by force." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"The Romans recognized potential difficulties in advance and always remedied them in time. They never let problems develop just so they could escape a war, for they knew that such wars cannot be avoided, only postponed to the advantage of others." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Considering thus how much honor is awarded to antiquity, and how many times—letting pass infinite other examples—a fragment of an ancient statue has been bought at high price because someone wants to have it near oneself, to honor his house with it, and to be able to have it imitated by those who delight in that art, and how the latter then strive with all industry to represent it in all their works; and seeing, on the other hand, that the most virtuous works the histories show us, which have been done by ancient kingdoms and republics, by kings, captains, citizens, legislators, and others who have labored for their fatherland, are rather admired than imitated—indeed they are so much shunned by everyone in every least thing that no sign of that ancient virtue remains with us—I can do no other than marvel and grieve… From this it arises that the infinite number who read [the histories] take pleasure in hearing of the variety of accidents contained within them without thinking of imitating them, judging that imitation is not only difficult but impossible—as if heaven, sun, elements, men had varied in motion, order, and power from what they were in antiquity. Wishing, therefore, to turn men from this error, I have judged it necessary to write on all those books of Titus Livy..." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"But since my intention is to write something useful for anyone who understands it, it seemed more suitable for me to search after the effectual truth of the matter rather than its imagined one. Many writers have imagined republics and principalities that have never been seen nor known to exist in reality. For there is such a distance between how one lives and how one ought to live, that anyone who abandons what is done for what ought to be done achieves his downfall rather than his preservation." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"it is far better to earn the confidence of the people than to rely on fortresses." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"No enterprise is more likely to succeed than one concealed from the enemy until it is ripe for execution.Nothing is of greater importance in time of war than in knowing how to make the best use of a fair opportunity when it is offered.Few men are brave by nature, but good discipline and experience make many so." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"The Prince who establishes himself in a Province whose laws and language differ from those of his own people, ought also to make himself the head and protector of his feebler neighbours, and endeavour to weaken the stronger, and must see that by no accident shall any other stranger as powerful as himself find an entrance there. For it will always happen that some such person will be called in by those of the Province who are discontented either through ambition or fear; as we see of old the Romans brought into Greece by the Aetolians, and in every other country that they entered, invited there by its inhabitants. And the usual course of things is that so soon as a formidable stranger enters a Province, all the weaker powers side with him, moved thereto by the ill-will they bear towards him who has hitherto kept them in subjection. So that in respect of these lesser powers, no trouble is needed to gain them over, for at once, together, and of their own accord, they throw in their lot with the government of the stranger. The new Prince, therefore, has only to see that they do not increase too much in strength, and with his own forces, aided by their good will, can easily subdue any who are powerful, so as to remain supreme in the Province. He who does not manage this matter well, will soon lose whatever he has gained, and while he retains it will find in it endless troubles and annoyances." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"مصوري المناظر الطبيعية ينزلون إلى الوديان ليتمكنوا من رسم الجبال. ثم إنهم يصعدون إلى أماكن مرتفعة حتى يتمكنوا من رؤية السهول والوديان. ولذلك فمن الضروري أن تكون أميرا حتى تعرف طبيعة شعبك, كما أنه يجب أن تكون أحد الرعية أيضا كي تعرف الحقائق المتعلقة بالأمراء." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"And let it here be noted that men are either to be kindly treated, or utterly crushed, since they can revenge lighter injuries, but not graver." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"When evening comes, I return home and enter my study; on the threshold I take off my workday clothes, covered with mud and dirt, and put on the garments of court and palace. Fitted out appropriately, I step inside the venerable courts of the ancients, where, solicitously received by them, I nourish myself on that food that alone is mine and for which I was born; where I am unashamed to converse with them and to question them about the motives for their actions, and they, out of their human kindness, answer me. And for four hours at a time I feel no boredom, I forget all my troubles, I do not dread poverty, and I am not terrified by death. I absorb myself into them completely." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"For this can be said of men in general: that they are ungrateful, fickle, hypocrites and dissemblers, avoiders of dangers, greedy for gain; and while you benefit them, they are entirely yours, offering you their blood, their goods, their life, their children,...when need is far away, but when you actually become needy, they turn away. (translated by Wayne A. Rebhorn)" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"The gulf between how one should live and how one does live is so wide that a man who neglects what is actually done for what should be done learns the way to self-destruction rather than self-preservation." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"A prince need take little account of conspiracies if the people are disposed in his favor." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"إذا كانت الأخطاء لا بد واقعة فيحسن أن تكون دفعة واحدة حتى تكون أقل تأثيراً من وقعات متعددة تبقى آثارها. أما المزايا فيجب ان إعطاؤها للرعايا جرعة جرعة حتى يستمتعوا بها ويشعروا بفائدتها." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"he who thinks new favours will cause great personages to forget old injuries deceives himself." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"I certainly think that it is better to be impetuous than cautious, for fortune is a woman, and it is necessary, if you wish to master her, to conquer her by force; and it can be seen that she let's herself be overcome by these rather than by those who proceed coldly. And therefore, like a woman, she is a friend to the young, because they are less cautious, fiercer, and master her with greater audacity" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Men are so self-complacent in their own affairs, and so willing to deceive themselves, that they are rescued with difficulty from this pest. If they wish to defend themselves they run the risk of becoming contemptible." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"The memory of their former freedom will not let them rest; so that the safest course is either to destroy them, or to go and live in them." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"These opportunities, then, gave these men the chance they needed, and their great abilities made them recognize it." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"...against my will, my fate,A throne unsettled, and an infant state,Bid me defend my realms with all my pow'rs, And guard with these severities my shores." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"I say that every prince must desire to be considered merciful and not cruel. He must, however, take care not to misuse this mercifulness. … A prince, therefore, must not mind incurring the charge of cruelty for the purpose of keeping his subjects united and confident; for, with a very few examples, he will be more merciful than those who, from excess of tenderness, allow disorders to arise, from whence spring murders and rapine; for these as a rule injure the whole community, while the executions carried out by the prince injure only one individual. And of all princes, it is impossible for a new prince to escape the name of cruel, new states being always full of dangers. … Nevertheless, he must be cautious in believing and acting, and must not inspire fear of his own accord, and must proceed in a temperate manner with prudence and humanity, so that too much confidence does not render him incautious, and too much diffidence does not render him intolerant." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"He, therefore, who acquires such a State, if he mean to keep it, must see to two things; first, that the blood of the ancient line of Princes be destroyed; second, that no change be made in respect of laws or taxes; for in this way the newly acquired State speedily becomes incorporated with the hereditary." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Set down among these lice, this is how I keep the mold from my brain and find release from Fortune's malice. I am content to have her beat me down this way to see if she won't become ashamed." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"As all those have shown who have discussed civil institutions, and as every history is full of examples, it is necessary to whoever arranges to found a Republic and establish laws in it, to presuppose that all men are bad and that they will use their malignity of mind every time they have the opportunity; and if such malignity is hidden for a time, it proceeds from the unknown reason that would not be known because the experience of the contrary had not been seen, but time, which is said to be the father of every truth, will cause it to be discovered." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"... By disarming, you at once give offense, since you show your subjects that you distrust them, either as doubting their courage, or as doubting their fidelity, each of which imputations begets hatred against you." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Men will not look at things as they really are, but as they wish them to be—and are ruined." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Yet the way men live is so far removed from the way they ought to live that anyone who abandons what is for what should be pursues his downfall rather than his preservation" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"An unavoidable war is called justice. When brutality is the only option left it is holy" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Prudent men are wont to say--and this not rashly or without good ground--that he who would foresee what has to be should reflect on what has been, for everything that happens in the world at any time has genuine resemblance to what happened in ancient times.""-- Machiavelli" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"There is a general note to be noted here: People should either be caressed or crushed. If you do them minor damage they will get their revenge; but if you cripple them there is nothing they can do. If you need to injure someone else, do it in such a way that you do not have to fear their vengeance." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Upon this, one has to remark that men ought either to be well treated or crushed, because they can avenge themselves of lighter injuries, of more serious ones they cannot; therefore the injury that is to be done to a man ought to be of such a kind that one does not stand in fear of revenge." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"But while it was their opportunities that made these men fortunate, it was their own merit that enabled them to recognize these opportunities and turn them to account, to the glory and prosperity of their country." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Virtue gives birth to tranquillity, tranquillity to leisure, leisure to disorder, disorder to ruin... and similarly from ruin, order is born, from order virtue, from virtue, glory and good fortune." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"For Time, driving all things before it, may bring with it evil as well as good." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Everyone sees what you seem to be, few know what you really are; and those few do not dare take a stand against the general opinion." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"No proceeding is better than that which you have concealed from the enemy until the time you have executed it. To know how to recognize an opportunity in war, and take it, benefits you more than anything else. Nature creates few men brave, industry and training makes many. Discipline in war counts more than fury." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Fear is as dangerous an enemy as resentment." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Prudence therefore consists in knowing how to distinguish degrees of disadvantage, and in accepting a less evil as a good." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"... He who innovates will have for his enemies all those who are well off under the existing order of things, and only lukewarm supporters in those who might be better off under the new... partly from the incredulity of mankind, who will never admit the merit of anything new, until they have seen it proved by the event." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"For men do harm either out of fear or out of hatred." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Men injure either from fear or hatred." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"لذلك فإننا إذا أردنا أن نتناول هذه القضية بدقة ، لابد ان نعرف أولاً ما إذا كان المصلحون يعتمدون على أنفسهم ، ام أنهم يعتمدون على الأخرين . وبعبارة أخرى : هل هم قادرون على استمالة غيرهم لينفذوا ما وضعوه لهم أم أنهم يستطيعون فرضه ؟ففي الحالة الأولى لن يحققوا سوى فوزاً ضعيفاً . ولا ينجزون شيئاً . أما إذا استطاعوا الاعتماد على سطوتهم ولديهم القدرة على استخدام قوتهم فإنهم لا يفشلون إلا فيما ندر . وبهذه الطريقة استطاع جميع الأنبياء المسلحين أن ينتصروا فيما فشل فيه غير المسلحين منهم . وذلك -بالإضافة إلى ما ذكرناه - يرجع إلى أن طبيعة البشر متقلبة . ومن السهل تحفيزهم لشيء ما ولكن من الصعب استمرار هذا الحافز .لذلك يجب أن نرتب أمورنا حتى يمكننا أن نستخدم القوة معهم لنردهم إلى الإيمان بما ارتدوا عنه ." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Because fear and ove can hardly co exist together,if we must chose between them, it is far safer to be feared than loved." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"ما يمكن التنبؤ به يمكن علاجه بسهولة، أما إذا انتظرنا إلى أن تداهمنا المخاطر، فسيصبح العلاج متأخراً عن موعده وتستصعي العلة." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Injuries, therefore, should be inflicted all at once, that their ill savour being less lasting may the less offend; whereas, benefits should be conferred little by little, that so they may be more fully relished." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Because the Romans did in these instances what all prudent princes ought to do, who have to regard not only present troubles, but also future ones, for which they must prepare with every energy, because, when foreseen, it is easy to remedy them; but if you wait until they approach, the medicine is no longer in time because the malady has become incurable; for it happens in this, as the physicians say it happens in hectic fever, that in the beginning of the malady it is easy to cure but difficult to detect, but in the course of time, not having been either detected or treated in the beginning, it becomes easy to detect but difficult to cure. This it happens in affairs of state, for when the evils that arise have been foreseen (which it is only given to a wise man to see), they can be quickly redressed, but when, through not having been foreseen, they have been permitted to grow in a way that every one can see them, there is no longer a remedy" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"It is truly natural and ordinary thing to desire gain; and when those who can succeed attempt it, they will always be praised and not blamed. But if they cannot succeed, yet try anyway, they are guilty of error and are blameworthy." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"One Must Be A Fox In Order To Recognize Traps, And A Lion To Frighten Off Wolves" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"he who has once begun to live by robbery will always find pretexts for seizing what belongs to others;" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"The wish to acquire is no doubt a natural and common sentiment, and when men attempt things within their power, they will always be praised rather than blamed. But when they persist in attempts that are beyond their power, mishaps and blame ensue." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Fear is as dangerous an enemy as resentment." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"There is no other way of guarding oneself against flattery than by letting men understand that they will not offend you by speaking the truth; but when everyone can tell you the truth, you lose their respect." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"men change their rulers willingly, hoping to better themselves, and this hope induces them to take up arms against him who rules, wherein they are deceived because they afterward find by experience they have gone from bad to worse." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"And the usual course of affairs is that, as soon as a powerful foreigner enters a country, all the subject states are drawn to him, moved by the hatred that they feel against the ruling power." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"For no man is found so prudent as to know how to adapt himself to these changes, both because he cannot deviate from the course to which nature inclines him, and because, having always prospered while adhering to one path, he cannot be persuaded that it would be well for him to forsake it. And so when occasion requires the cautious man to act impetuously, he cannot do so and is undone: whereas had he changed his nature with time and circumstances, his fortune would have been unchanged." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"he wise man should always follow the roads that have been trodden by the great, and imitate those who have most excelled, so that if he cannot reach their perfection, he may at least acquire something of its savour." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"But in republics there is more vitality, more hatred, and more desire for revenge. The memory of former freedom simply will not leave the people in peace." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"... On the whole, the best fortress you can have, is in not being hated by your subjects. If they hate you no fortress will save you..." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"But in new Princedoms difficulties abound. And, first, if the Princedom be not wholly new, but joined on to the ancient dominions of the Prince, so as to form with them what may be termed a mixed Princedom, changes will come from a cause common to all new States, namely, that men, thinking to better their condition, are always ready to change masters, and in this expectation will take up arms against any ruler; wherein they deceive themselves, and find afterwards by experience that they are worse off than before" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Los hombres ofenden antes al que aman que al que temen." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"men have less scruple in offending one who is beloved than one who is feared, for love is preserved by the link of obligation, which, owing to the baseness of men, is broken at every opportunity for their advantage; but fear preserves you by a dread of punishment, which never fails." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"it is essential that in entering a new Province you should have the good will of its inhabitants." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"The Swiss are well armed and very free." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Any man who tries to be good all the time is bound to come to ruin among the great number who are not good." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"I am firmly convinced, therefore, that to set up a republic which is to last a long time, the way to set about it is to constitute it as Sparta and Venice were constituted; to place it in a strong position, and so to fortify it that no one will dream of taking it by a sudden assault; and, on the other hand, not to make it so large as to appear formidable to its neighbors. It should in this way be able to enjoy its form of government for a long time. For war is made on a commonwealth for two reasons: to subjugate it, and for fear of being subjugated by it." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"And let it be noted that there is no more delicate matter to take in hand, nor more dangerous to conduct, nor more doubtful in its success, than to set up as a leader in the introduction of changes." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"for men do easily part with their prince upon hopes of bettering their condition, and that hope provokes them to rebel; but most commonly they are mistaken, and experience tells them their condition is much worse." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"The salvation of a republic or a kingdom is not, therefore, merely to have a prince who governs prudently while he lives, but rather one who organizes the government in such a way that after his death it can be maintained." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"To govern more securely some Princes have disarmed their subjects...but by disarming, you at once give offence, since you show your subjects that you distrust them, either by doubting their courage, or as doubting their fidelity, each of which imputations begets hatred against you." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"When trouble is sensed well in advance it can easily be remedied; if you wait for it to show itself any medicine will be too late because the disease will have become incurable. As the doctors say of a wasting disease, to start with it is easy to cure but difficult to diagnose;after a time, unless it has been diagnosed and treated at the outset, it becomes easy to diagnose but difficult to cure. So it is in politics." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"I say, then, that hereditary States, accustomed to the family of their Prince, are maintained with far less difficulty than new States, since all that is required is that the Prince shall not depart from the usages of his ancestors, trusting for the rest to deal with events as they arise." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"For injuries ought to be done all at one time, so that, being tasted less, they offend less; benefits ought to be given little by little, so that the flavour of them may last longer." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Men judge more from appearances than reality. All men have eyes, but few have the gift of penetration. Everyone sees your exterior, but few candiscern what you have in your heart." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"... one would like to be both [loved and feared], but as it is difficult to combine both love and fear, if one has to choose between them it is far safer to be feared than loved" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"A prince who is free to do as he pleases is unreasonable, and a people that is free to do as it pleases is not wise. If we consider princes restricted by laws and a people bound by laws, we will find greater qualities in the people than in the princes." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"One ought perhaps not to count Moses, as he was a mere executor of the will of God; he must nevertheless be admired, if only for the grace that made him worthy of speaking to God." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"At nightfall I return home and enter my study. There on the threshold I remove my dirty, mud-spattered clothes, slip on my regal and courtly robes, and thus fittingly attired, I enter the ancient courts of bygone men where, having received a friendly welcome, I feed on the food that is mine alone and that I was born for. I am not ashamed to speak with them and inquire into the reasons for their actions; and they answer me in kindly fashion. And so for four hours I feel no annoyance; I forget all troubles; poverty hold no fears, and death loses its terrors. I become entirely one of them." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"I say that every prince ought to desire to be considered clement and not cruel. Nevertheless he ought to take care not to misuse this clemency." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Upon this, one has to remark that men ought either to be well treated or crushed because they can avenge themselves of lighter injuries; of more serious ones they cannot, therefore the injury that is to be done to a man ought to be of such a kind that one does not stand in fear of revenge." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"CHAPTER XXVI.—A new Prince in a City or Province of which he has taken Possession, ought to make Everything new. Whosoever becomes prince of a city or State, more especially if his position be so insecure that he cannot resort to constitutional government either in the form of a republic or a monarchy, will find that the best way to preserve his princedom is to renew the whole institutions of that State; that is to say, to create new magistracies with new names, confer new powers, and employ new men, and like David when he became king, exalt the humble and depress the great, ""filling the hungry with good things, and sending the rich empty away."" Moreover, he must pull down existing towns and rebuild them, removing their inhabitants from one place to another; and, in short, leave nothing in the country as he found it; so that there shall be neither rank, nor condition, nor honour, nor wealth which its possessor can refer to any but to him. And he must take example from Philip of Macedon, the father of Alexander, who by means such as these, from being a petty prince became monarch of all Greece; and of whom it was written that he shifted men from province to province as a shepherd moves his flocks from one pasture to another. These indeed are most cruel expedients, contrary not merely to every Christian, but to every civilized rule of conduct, and such as every man should shun, choosing rather to lead a private life than to be a king on terms so hurtful to mankind. But he who will not keep to the fair path of virtue, must to maintain himself enter this path of evil. Men, however, not knowing how to be wholly good or wholly bad, choose for themselves certain middle ways, which of all others are the most pernicious, as shall be shown by an instance in the following Chapter." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"that men, thinking to better their condition, are always ready to change masters, and in this expectation will take up arms against any ruler; wherein they deceive themselves, and find afterwards by experience that they are worse off than before." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"And there is nothing wastes so rapidly as liberality, for even whilst you exercise it you lose the power to do so, and so become either poor or despised, or else - in avoiding poverty - rapacious and hated. And a leader should guard himself, above all things, against being despised and hated; and liberality leads you to both. Therefore it is wiser to have a reputation for austerity which brings reproach without hatred, than to be compelled through seeking a reputation for liberality to incur a name for rapacity which begets reproach with hatred." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"And when neither their property nor honour is touched, the majority of men live content, and he has only to contend with the ambition of a few, whom he can curb with ease in many ways. It makes him contemptible to be considered fickle, frivolous, effeminate, mean-spirited, irresolute, from all of which a prince should guard himself as from a rock; and he should endeavour to show in his actions greatness, courage, gravity, and fortitude; and in his private dealings with his subjects let him show that his judgments are irrevocable, and maintain himself in such reputation that no one can hope either to deceive him or to get round him. That prince is highly esteemed who conveys this impression of himself, and he who is highly esteemed is not easily conspired against; for, provided it is well known that he is an excellent man and revered by his people, he can only be attacked with difficulty." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"The first opinion which one forms of a prince, and of his understanding, is by observing the men he has around him; and when they are capable and faithful he may always be considered wise, because he has known how to recognize the capable and to keep them faithful. But when they are otherwise one cannot form a good opinion of him, for the prime error which he made was in choosing them." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"But in republics, there is more vitality, greater hatred, and more desire for vengeance, which will never permit them to allow the memory of their former liberty to rest so that the safest way is to destroy them or to reside there." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"... If instead of colonies you send troops, the cost is vastly greater, and the whole revenues of the country are spent in guarding it so that the gain becomes a loss, and much deeper offense is given since in shifting the quarters of your soldiers from place to place the whole country suffers hardship, which as all feel, all are made enemies and enemies who remaining, although vanquished, in their own homes, have power to hurt. In every way, therefore, this mode of defense is as disadvantageous as that by colonizing is useful." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"A prince, therefore, ought always to take counsel, but only when he wishes and not when others wish; he ought rather to discourage every one from offering advice unless he asks it; but, however, he ought to be a constant inquirer, and afterwards a patient listener concerning the things of which he inquired; also, on learning that any one, on any consideration, has not told him the truth, he should let his anger be felt." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"A Prince should esteem the great, but must not make himself odious to the people." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Just as artists who draw landscapes get down in the valley to study the mountains and go up to the mountains to look down on the valley, so one has to be a prince to get to know the character of a people and a man of the people to know the character of a prince." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Those who believe that where great personages are concerned new favors cause old injuries to be forgotten deceive themselves." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"When you see a Minister thinking more of himself than of you, and in all his actions seeking his own ends, that man can never be a good Minister or one that you can trust. For he who has the charge of the State committed to him, ought not to think of himself, but only of his Prince, and should never bring to the notice of the latter what does not directly concern him." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Men judge more from appearances than reality. All men have eyes, but few have the gift of penetration.Everyone sees your exterior, but few candiscern what you have in your heart." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"When evening comes, I go back home, and go to my study. On the threshold I take off my work clothes, covered in mud and filth, and put on the clothes an ambassador would wear. Decently dressed, I enter the ancient courts of rulers who have long since died. There I am warmly welcomed, and I feed on the only food I find nourishing, and was born to savor. I am not ashamed to talk to them, and to ask them to explain their actions. And they, out of kindness, answer me. Four hours go by without my feeling any anxiety. I forget every worry. I am no longer afraid of poverty, or frightened of death. I live entirely through them." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"war is not so to be avoided, but is only deferred to your disadvantage" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Let no man marvel if in what I am about to say concerning Princedoms wholly new, both as regards the Prince and the form of Government, I cite the highest examples. For since men for the most part follow in the footsteps and imitate the actions of others, and yet are unable to adhere exactly to those paths which others have taken, or attain to the virtues of those whom they would resemble, the wise man should always follow the roads that have been trodden by the great, and imitate those who have most excelled, so that if he cannot reach their perfection, he may at least acquire something of its savour. Acting in this like the skilful archer, who seeing that the object he would hit is distant, and knowing the range of his bow, takes aim much above the destined mark; not designing that his arrow should strike so high, but that flying high it may alight at the point intended." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Princes should devolve on others those matters that entail responsibility, and reserve to themselves those that relate to grace and favour." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"A sculptor will more easily extract a beautiful statue from a piece of rough marble than from one that has been badly blocked out by someone else." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"A prince, as I have said before, sooner becomes hated by being rapacious and by interfering with the property and with the women of his subjects, than in any other way. From these, therefore, he should abstain. For so long as neither their property nor their honour is touched, the mass of mankind live contentedly, and the prince has only to cope with the ambition of a few, which can in many ways and easily be kept within bounds.A prince is despised when he is seen to be fickle, frivolous, effeminate, pusillanimous, or irresolute, against which defects he ought therefore most carefully to guard, striving so to bear himself that greatness, courage, wisdom, and strength may appear in all his actions. In his private dealings with his subjects his decisions should be irrevocable, and his reputation such that no one would dream of overreaching or cajoling him." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"He listened to their opinions, stated his own, and supported them with reasons; and from his being constantly occupied with such meditations, it resulted, that when in command no complication could ever present itself with which he was not prepared to deal." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"For how we live is so far removed from how we ought to live, that he who abandons what is done for what ought to be done, will rather learn to bring about his own ruin than his preservation. A man who wishes to make a profession of goodness in everything must necessarily come to grief among so many who are not good. Therefore it is necessary for a prince, who wishes to maintain himself, to learn how not to be good, and to use this knowledge and not use it, according to the necessity of the case" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"And although one should not reason about Moses, as he was a mere executor of things that had been ordered for him by God, nonetheless he should be admired if only for that grace which made him deserving of speaking with God. " -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Men will not look at things as they really are, but as they wish them to be— and are ruined." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"He who is the cause of another's greatness is himself undone, since he must work either by address or force, each of which excites distrust in the person raised to power." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"If they lacked the opportunity, the strength of their sprit would have been sapped; if they had lacked ability, the opportunity would have been wasted." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"The wise prince, therefore, has always avoided these arms and turned to his own and has been willing rather to lose with them than to conquer with the others, not deeming that a real victory which is gained with the arms of others." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"This lukewarm temper arises partly from the fear of adversaries who have the laws on their side, and partly from the incredulity of mankind, who will never admit the merit of anything new, until they have seen it proved by the event. The result, however, is that whenever the enemies of change make an attack, they do so with all the zeal of partisans, while the others defend themselves so feebly as to endanger both themselves and their cause." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"When a newly acquired State has been accustomed, as I have said, to live under its own laws and in freedom, there are three methods whereby it may be held. The first is to destroy it; the second, to go and reside there in person; the third, to suffer it to live on under its own laws, subjecting it to a tribute, and entrusting its government to a few of the inhabitants who will keep the rest your friends" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"... War is the sole art looked for in one who rules..." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"And since there are three scales of intelligence, one which understands by itself, a second which understands what is shown it by others, and a third which understands neither by itself nor on the showing of others, the first of which is most excellent, the second good, but the third worthless," -Niccolo Machiavelli
"there are two distinct viewpoints in every republic: that of the populace and that of the elite. All the laws made in order to foster liberty result from the tensions between them," -Niccolo Machiavelli
"... If in other respects the old condition of things be continued, and there be no discordance in their customs, men live peaceably with one another..." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"A Prince is likewise esteemed who is a stanch friend and a thorough foe, that is to say, who without reserve openly declares for one against another, this being always a more advantageous course than to stand neutral. For supposing two of your powerful neighbours come to blows, it must either be that you have, or have not, reason to fear the one who comes off victorious. In either case it will always be well for you to declare yourself, and join in frankly with one side or other. For should you fail to do so you are certain, in the former of the cases put, to become the prey of the victor to the satisfaction and delight of the vanquished, and no reason or circumstance that you may plead will avail to shield or shelter you; for the victor dislikes doubtful friends, and such as will not help him at a pinch; and the vanquished will have nothing to say to you, since you would not share his fortunes sword in hand." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"If princes are indeed superior to the people in enacting laws, in organizing civil governments, in setting up new statues and ordinances, then doubtless the people are so superior in maintaining what has been instituted that they increase the glory of those who instituted them." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Still, to slaughter fellow-citizens, to betray friends, to be devoid of honour, pity, and religion, cannot be counted as merits, for these are means which may lead to power, but which confer no glory." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"It may be observed, that provinces amid the vicissitudes to which they are subject, pass from order into confusion, and afterward recur to a state of order again; for the nature of mundane affairs not allowing them to continue in an even course, when they have arrived at their greatest perfection, they soon begin to decline. In the same manner, having been reduced by disorder, and sunk to their utmost state of depression, unable to descend lower, they, of necessity, reascend; and thus from good they gradually decline to evil, and from evil again return to good. The reason is, that valor produces peace; peace, repose; repose, disorder; disorder, ruin; so from disorder order springs; from order virtue, and from this, glory and good fortune." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"God is unwilling to do everything Himself, lest He deprive us of our free will and of that portion of glory that belongs to us." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"...the scepticism of men, who do not truly believe in new things unless they have actually had personal experience of them." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"A wise man ought always to follow the paths beaten by great men, and to imitate those who have been supreme, so that if his ability does not equal theirs, at least it will savour of it." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"And it has always been the opinion and judgment of wise men that nothing can be so uncertain or unstable as fame or power not founded on its own strength." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Anyone who studies present and ancient affairs will easily see how in all cities and all peoples there still exist, and have always existed, the same desires and passions. Thus, it is an easy matter for him who carefully examines past events to foresee future events in a republic and to apply the remedies employed by the ancients, or, if old remedies cannot be found, to devise new ones based upon the similarity of the events. But since these matters are neglected or not understood by those who read, or, if understood, remain unknown to those who govern, the result is that the same problems always exist in every era." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"A PRINCE, therefore, should have no care or thought but for war, and for the regulations and training it requires, and should apply himself exclusively to this as his peculiar province; for war is the sole art looked for in one who rules, and is of such efficacy that it not merely maintains those who are born Princes, but often enables men to rise to that eminence from a private station;" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"From this one can derive a general rule which rarely, if ever, fails: that anyone who is the cause of another becoming powerful comes to ruin himself; because that power has been brought about by him either through cunning or by force; and both of these two qualities are suspect to the one who has become powerful." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Men are either to be kindly treated, or utterly crushed, since they can revenge lighter injuries, but not graver. Wherefore the injury we do to a man should be of a sort to leave no fear of reprisals." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Those who solely by good fortune become princes from being private citizens have little trouble in rising, but much in keeping atop; they have not any difficulties on the way up because they fly, but they have many when they reach the summit." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"resemblance between Fortune and women and concludes that it is the bold rather than the cautious man that will win and hold them both." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Nothing consumes itself so much as generosity, because while you practise it you're losing the wherewithal to go on practising it." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"... Whoever becomes master of a city accustomed to live in freedom and does no destroy it, may reckon on being destroyed by it. For if it should rebel, it can always screen itself under the name of liberty and its ancient laws, which no length of time, nor any benefit conferred will ever cause it to forget; and do what you will, and take what care you may, unless the inhabitants be scattered and dispersed, this name, and the old order of things, will never cease to be remembered..." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Upon this a question arises: whether it be better to be loved than feared or feared than loved? It may be answered that one should wish to be both, but, because it is difficult to unite them in one person, is much safer to be feared than loved, when, of the two, either must be dispensed with." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"... Physicians tell us of hectic fever, that in its beginning it is easy to cure, but hard to recognize; whereas, after a time, not having been detected and treated at the first, it becomes easy to recognize but impossible to cure. And so it is with State affairs." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"So to hold it they were compelled to dismantle many cities in the country, for in truth there is no safe way to retain them otherwise than by ruining them. And he who becomes master of a city accustomed to freedom and does not destroy it, may expect to be destroyed by it, for in rebellion it has always the watchword of liberty and its ancient privileges as a rallying point, which neither time nor benefits will ever cause it to forget. And whatever you may do or provide against, they never forget that name or their privileges unless they are disunited or dispersed, but at every chance they immediately rally to them," -Niccolo Machiavelli
"He who believes that new benefits will cause great personages to forget old injuries is deceived." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Thus it will always happen that he who is not your friend will demand your neutrality, whilst he who is your friend will entreat you to declare yourself with arms." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"No es preciso que un príncipe posea todas las virtudes citadas, pero es indispensable que aparente poseerlas" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"And it ought to be remembered that there is nothing more difficult to take in hand, more perilous to conduct, or more uncertain in its success, than to take the lead in the introduction of a new order of things, because the innovator has for enemies all those who have done well under the old conditions, and lukewarm defenders in those who may do well under the new." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Knowledge doth come of learning well retained, Unfruitful else," -Niccolo Machiavelli
"The innovator makes enemies of all those who prospered under the old order, and only lukewarm support is forthcoming from those who would prosper under the new." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Upon this, one has to remark that men ought either to be well treated or crushed, because they can avenge themselves of lighter injuries, of more serious ones they cannot; therefore the injury that is to be done to a man ought to be of such a kind that one does not stand in fear of revenge. But" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Again, a Prince should show himself a patron of merit, and should honour those who excel in every art. He ought accordingly to encourage his subjects by enabling them to pursue their callings, whether mercantile, agricultural, or any other, in security, so that this man shall not be deterred from beautifying his possessions from the apprehension that they may be taken from him, or that other refrain from opening a trade through fear of taxes; and he should provide rewards for those who desire so to employ themselves, and for all who are disposed in any way to add to the greatness of his City or State." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"... When Princes devote themselves rather to pleasure than to arms, they lose their dominions." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"It is better to be feared than loved if you cannot be both." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"good individuals cannot exist without good education, and good education cannot exist without good laws," -Niccolo Machiavelli
"But since a Prince should know how to use the beast's nature wisely, he ought of beasts to choose both the lion and the fox; for the lion cannot guard himself from the toils, nor the fox from wolves. He must therefore be a fox to discern toils, and a lion to drive off wolves." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"... The armour of others is too wide, or too strait for us; it falls off us, or it weighs us down." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Therefore, my son, if you wish to please me, and to bring success and honour to yourself, do right and study, because others will help you if you help yourself." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Another difficulty to be added to the one mentioned above is that a state that becomes free creates for itself enemies rather than friends." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"...instead of praying for some new holy man to save you, learn the way to Hell in order to steer clear of it yourself." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Mercenaries and auxiliaries are useless and dangerous; and if one holds his state based on these arms, he will stand neither firm nor safe; for they are disunited, ambitious, and without discipline, unfaithful, valiant before friends, cowardly before enemies; they have neither the fear of God nor fidelity to men, and destruction is deferred only so long as the attack is; for in peace one is robbed by them, and in war by the enemy." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"And it will always happen that he who is not your friend will invite you to neutrality, while he who is your friend will call on you to declare yourself openly in arms." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"You must know, then, that there are two methods of fighting, the one by law, the other by force: the first method is that of men, the second of beasts; but as the first method is often insufficient, one must have recourse to the second. It is therefore necessary to know well how to use both the beast and the man." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"One should bear in mind that there is nothing more difficult to execute, nor more dubious of success, nor more dangerous to administer, than to introduce new political orders. For the one who introduces them has as his enemies all those who profit from the old order, and he has only lukewarm defenders in all those who might profit from the new order." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Concerning this, it should be noted that men must be either caressed or wiped out; because they will avenge minor injuries, but cannot do so for grave ones. Any harm done to a man must be of the kind that removes any fear of revenge." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Whoever desires constant success must change his conduct with the times." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Men in general judge more with the eye than with the hand, because everyone can see, but few can feel. Everyone sees what you seem to be, but few feel what you are.– Constantine translation" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"I say then that such a principality is obtained either by the favour of the people or by the favour of the nobles. Because in all cities, these two distinct parties are found, and from this it arises that the people do not wish to be ruled nor oppressed by the nobles, and the nobles wish to rule and oppress the people; and from these two opposite desires there arises in cities one of three results, either a principality, self-government, or anarchy." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"For one change always leaves the toothing for another." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"For, besides what has been said, people are fickle by nature: it is easy to convince them of something, but difficult to hold them in that conviction. Therefore, affairs should be managed in such a way that when they no longer believe, they can be made to believe by force." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"The evening being come, I return home and go to my study; at the entrance I pull off my peasant-clothes, covered with dust and dirt, and put on my noble court dress, and thus becomingly re-clothed I pass into the ancient courts of the men of old, where, being lovingly received by them, I am fed with that food which is mine alone; where I do not hesitate to speak with them, and to ask for the reason of their actions, and they in their benignity answer me; and for four hours I feel no weariness, I forget every trouble, poverty does not dismay, death does not terrify me; I am possessed entirely by those great men." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Men rise from one ambition to another: first, they seek to secure themselves against attack, and then they attack others." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"They are sustained by the ancient institutions of religion, which are so powerful and of such a quality that they keep their princes in power no matter how they act and live their lives." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"This again results naturally and necessarily from the circumstance that the Prince cannot avoid giving offence to his new subjects, either in respect of the troops he quarters on them, or of some other of the numberless vexations attendant on a new acquisition." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"When every province of the world so teems with inhabitants that they can neither subsist where they are nor remove elsewhere, every region being equally crowded and over-peopled, and when human craft and wickedness have reached their highest pitch, it must needs come about that the world will purge herself in one or another of these three ways: floods, plague and famine" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"[As to the second case] ,that of being drawn into one [a trap or ambush] ...you must be shrewd about not believing easily things not in accord with reason. For example, if the enemy puts some booty before you, you ought to believe that within it there is a hook and that it conceals some trick. If many of the enemy are put to flight by your few, if a few of the enemy assail your many, if the enemy turn in sudden flight,...you ought to fear a trick. And you should never believe that the enemy does not know how to carry on his affairs; rather, if you hope to be less deceived...and...run less risk, in proportion as your enemy is weaker, in proportion as he is less cautious, you should the more respect him." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"The Romans, accordingly, admiring the prudence and virtues of Numa, assented to all the measures which he recommended. This, however, is to be said, that the circumstance of these times being deeply tinctured with religious feeling, and of the men with whom he had to deal being rude and ignorant, gave Numa better facility to carry out his plans, as enabling him to mould his subjects readily to any new impression. And, doubtless, he who should seek at the present day to form a new commonwealth, would find the task easier among a race of simple mountaineers, than among the dwellers in cities where society is corrupt; as the sculptor can more easily carve a fair statue from a rough block, than from the block which has been badly shaped out by another." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Therefore it must be inferred that good counsels, whencesoever they come, are born of the wisdom of the prince, and not the wisdom of the prince from good counsels." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"the prince who relies entirely on fortune is lost when it changes. I believe also that he will be successful who directs his actions according to the spirit of the times, and that he whose actions do not accord with the times will not be successful. Because men are seen, in affairs that lead to the end which every man has before him, namely, glory and riches, to get there by various methods; one with caution, another with haste; one by force, another by skill; one by patience, another by its opposite; and each one succeeds in reaching the goal by a different method. One" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Time sweeps everything along and can bring good as well as evil, evil as well as good." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Wherefore, unless things be put on a sound footing by some one ruler who lives to a very advanced age, or by two virtuous rulers succeeding one another, the city upon their death at once falls back into ruin; or, if it be preserved, must be so by incurring great risks, and at the cost of much blood. For" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"[...T]he ways of God have been manifested beyond example: the sea is divided, the cloud has led the way, the rock has poured forth water, it has rained manna, everything has contributed to your greatness; you ought to do the rest. God is not willing to do everything, and thus take away our free will and that share of glory which belongs to us." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"In the city of the blind, whoever has one eye is lord." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Wherefore, as has already been said, a Prince who is ignorant of military affairs, besides other disadvantages, can neither be respected by his soldiers, nor can he trust them." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"I say, therefore, that the arms with which a prince defends his state are either his own, or they are mercenaries, auxiliaries, or mixed. Mercenaries and auxiliaries are useless and dangerous; and if one holds his state based on these arms, he will stand neither firm nor safe; for they are disunited, ambitious and without discipline, unfaithful, valiant before friends, cowardly before enemies; they have neither the fear of God nor fidelity to men, and destruction is deferred only so long as the attack is; for in peace one is robbed by them, and in war by the enemy. The fact is, they have no other attraction or reason for keeping the field than a trifle of stipend, which is not sufficient to make them willing to die for you. They are ready enough to be your soldiers whilst you do not make war, but if war comes they take themselves off or run from the foe; which I should have little trouble to prove, for the ruin of Italy has been caused by nothing else than by resting all her hopes for many years on mercenaries, and although they formerly made some display and appeared valiant amongst themselves, yet when the foreigners came they showed what they were." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Many, Lorenzo, have held and still hold the opinion, that there is nothing which has less in common with another, and that is so dissimilar, as civilian life is from the military. Whence it is often observed, if anyone designs to avail himself of an enlistment in the army, that he soon changes, not only his clothes, but also his customs, his habits, his voice, and in the presence of any civilian custom, he goes to pieces; for I do not believe that any man can dress in civilian clothes who wants to be quick and ready for any violence; nor can that man have civilian customs and habits, who judges those customs to be effeminate and those habits not conducive to his actions; nor does it seem right to him to maintain his ordinary appearance and voice who, with his beard and cursing, wants to make other men afraid: which makes such an opinion in these times to be very true. But if they should consider the ancient institutions, they would not find matter more united, more in conformity, and which, of necessity, should be like to each other as much as these (civilian and military); for in all the arts that are established in a society for the sake of the common good of men, all those institutions created to (make people) live in fear of the laws and of God would be in vain, if their defense had not been provided for and which, if well arranged, will maintain not only these, but also those that are not well established. And so (on the contrary), good institutions without the help of the military are not much differently disordered than the habitation of a superb and regal palace, which, even though adorned with jewels and gold, if it is not roofed over will not have anything to protect it from the rain. And, if in any other institutions of a City and of a Republic every diligence is employed in keeping men loyal, peaceful, and full of the fear of God, it is doubled in the military; for in what man ought the country look for greater loyalty than in that man who has to promise to die for her? In whom ought there to be a greater love of peace, than in him who can only be injured by war? In whom ought there to be a greater fear of God than in him who, undergoing infinite dangers every day, has more need for His aid? If these necessities in forming the life of the soldier are well considered, they are found to be praised by those who gave the laws to the Commanders and by those who were put in charge of military training, and followed and imitated with all diligence by others." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"In this passage we are taught how hateful a thing is calumny in all free States, as, indeed, in every society, and how we must neglect no means which may serve to check it. And there can be no more effectual means for checking calumny than by affording ample facilities for impeachment, which is as useful in a commonwealth as the other is pernicious. And between them there is this difference, that calumny needs neither witness, nor circumstantial proof to establish it, so that any man may be calumniated by any other; but not impeached; since impeachment demands that there be substantive charges made, and trustworthy evidence to support them." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"I say, then, that hereditary States, accustomed to the family of their Prince, are maintained with far less difficulty than new States, since all that is required is that the Prince shall not depart from the usages of his ancestors, trusting for the rest to deal with events as they arise. So that if an hereditary Prince be of average address, he will always maintain himself in his Princedom, unless deprived of it by some extraordinary and irresistible force; and even if so deprived will recover it, should any, even the least, mishap overtake the usurper. We have in Italy an example of this in the Duke of Ferrara, who never could have withstood the attacks of the Venetians in 1484, nor those of Pope Julius in 1510, had not his authority in that State been consolidated by time. For since a Prince by birth has fewer occasions and less need to give offence, he ought to be better loved, and will naturally be popular with his subjects unless outrageous vices make him odious. Moreover, the very antiquity and continuance of his rule will efface the memories and causes which lead to innovation. For one change always leaves a dovetail into which another will fit." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Between an armed and an unarmed man no proportion holds, and it is contrary to reason to expect that the armed man should voluntarily submit to him who is unarmed, or that the unarmed man should stand secure among armed retainers. For with contempt on one side, and distrust on the other, it is impossible that men should work well together." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Whether this has ever happened I know not, nor whether it ever can happen. For we see, as I have said a little way back, that a city which owing to its pervading corruption has once begun to decline, if it is to recover at all, must be saved not by the excellence of the people collectively, but of some one man then living among them, on whose death it at once relapses into its former plight; as happened with Thebes, in which the virtue of Epaminondas made it possible while he lived to preserve the form of a free Government, but which fell again on his death into its old disorders; the reason being that hardly any ruler lives so long as to have time to accustom to right methods a city which has long been accustomed to wrong." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Do you are laugh because you are successful or because another one is unfortunate?" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Power is the pivot on which everything hinges. He who has the power is always right; the weaker is always wrong." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"... Men are either to be kindly treated, or utterly crushed, since they can revenge lighter injuries, but not graver. Wherefore the injury we to do a man should be of a sort to leave no fear of reprisals." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Puţini văd cum suntem într-adevăr, dar toţi văd ce ne prefacem că suntem." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"...never in peaceful times stand idle.." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"It is far safer to be feared than loved" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"It was necessary, therefore, to Moses that he should find the people of Israel in Egypt enslaved and oppressed by the Egyptians, in order that they should be disposed to follow him so as to be delivered out of bondage. It was necessary that Romulus should not remain in Alba, and that he should be abandoned at his birth, in order that he should become King of Rome and founder of the fatherland. It" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Armour belonging to someone else either chops off you or weighs you down or is too tight" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"armour" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"إن من يظن ان المنفعة الحديثة تمحو أثر الإساءة القديمة من نفوس العظماء يخطئ خطأ جسيماً" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"So, a leader doesn't have to possess all the virtuous qualities I've mentioned, but it's absolutely imperative that he seem to possess them. I'll go so far as to say this: if he had those qualities and observed them all the time, he'd be putting himself at risk. It's seeming to be virtuous that helps; as, for example, seeming to be compassionate, loyal, humane, honest and religious. And you can even be those things, so long as you're always mentally prepared to change as soon as your interests are threatened. What you have to understand is that a ruler, especially a ruler new to power, can't always behave in ways that would make people think a man good, because to stay in power he's frequently obliged to act against loyalty, against charity, against humanity and against religion. What matters is that he has the sort of character that can change tack as luck and circumstances demand, and, as I've already said, stick to the good if he can but know how to be bad when the occasion demands. So a ruler must be extremely careful not to say anything that doesn't appear to be inspired by the five virtues listed above; he must seem and sound wholly compassionate, wholly loyal, wholly humane, wholly honest and wholly religious. There is nothing more important than appearing to be religious. In general people judge more by appearances than first-hand experience, because everyone gets to see you but hardly anyone deals with you directly. Everyone sees what you seem to be, few have experience of who you really are, and those few won't have the courage to stand up to majority opinion underwritten by the authority of state" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Never was anything great achieved without danger" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"There is in everything a latent evil peculiar to it." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"therefore, who acquires such a State, if he mean to keep it, must see to two things; first, that the blood of the ancient line of Princes be destroyed; second, that no change be made in respect of laws or taxes; for in this way the newly acquired State speedily becomes incorporated with the hereditary." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"É necessário a um príncipe saber usar do animal com destreza, dentre todos ele deve escolher a raposa e o leão, pois o leão não pode defender-se de armadilhas, e a raposa é indefesa diante dos lobos; é preciso, pois ser raposa para conhecer as armadilhas e leão para afugentar os lobos - aqueles que simplesmente adotam o leão não entendem do assunto." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"The nature of men is such that they find themselves obligated as much for the benefits they confer as for those they receive." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"exactly to those paths which others have taken, or attain to the virtues of those whom they would resemble, the wise man should always follow the roads that have been trodden by the great, and imitate those who have most excelled, so that if he cannot reach their perfection, he may at least acquire something of its savour." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"But to exercise the intellect the prince should read histories, and study there the actions of illustrious men, to see how they have borne themselves in war, to examine the causes of their victories and defeat, so as to avoid the latter and imitate the former; and above all do as illustrious man did, who took as an exemplar one who had been praised and famous before him, and whose achievements and deeds he always kept in his mind, as it is said Alexander the Great imitated Achilles, Caesar Alexander, Scipio Cyrus." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"question arises: whether it be better to be loved than feared or feared than loved? It may be answered that one should wish to be both, but because it is difficult to unite them in one person, it is much safer to be feared than loved, when, of the two, either must be dispensed with." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"One who begins to live by rapine will always find some reason for taking the goods of others" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"...Fear preserves you by a dread of punishment which never fails." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Differences between the conduct of the multitude and the conduct of the princes do not derive from differences in their nature, that being the same in both (though if there be some superiority either way, it will be found on the side of the people); rather, they derive from differences in their respect for the laws under which they live." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"For since a Prince by birth has fewer occasions and less need to give offence, he ought to be better loved, and will naturally be popular with his subjects unless outrageous vices make him odious." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"مصوري المناظر الطبيعية ينزلون إلي الوديان ليتمكنوا من رؤية السهول والوديان. ولذلك فمن الضروري أن تكون أميرا حتي تعرف طبيعة شعبك, كما أنه يجب أن تكون أحد الرعية أيضا كي تعرف الحقائق المتعلقة بالأمراء." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"...these republics [the German city states] in which a free and pure government is maintained will not suffer any of their citizens either to be, or to live as gentlemen; but on the contrary, while preserving strict equality among themselves, are bitterly hostile to all those gentlemen and lords who dwell in their neighbourhood; so that if by chance any of these fall into their hand, they put them to death, as the chief promoters of corruption and the origin of all disorders.But to make plain what I mean when I speak of gentlemen, I say that those are so to be styled who live in opulence and idleness on the revenues of their estates, without concerning themselves with the cultivation of these estates, or incurring any other fatigue for their support.- Discourses on the First Decade of Titus Livius" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"To understand the nature of the people one must be a prince, and to understand the nature of the prince, one must be of the people" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"IT IS customary for such as seek a Prince's favour, to present themselves before him with those things of theirs which they themselves most value, or in which they perceive him chiefly to delight." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"above all things he must keep his hands off the property of others, because men more quickly forget the death of their father than the loss of their patrimony. Besides," -Niccolo Machiavelli
"One of the best and most efficacious methods for dealing with such a State, is for the Prince who acquires it to go and dwell there in person, since this will tend to make his tenure more secure and lasting." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"… to a Prince who wants to do great things, it is necessary to learn to deceive." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Whenever those states, which have been acquired as stated, have been accustomed to live under their own laws and in freedom, there are three courses for those who wish to hold them: the first is to ruin them, the next is to reside there in person, the third is to permit them to live under their own laws, drawing a tribute, and establishing within it an oligarchy which will keep it friendly to you." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"... I believe that he will prosper most whose mode of acting best adapts itself to the character of the times; and conversely that he will be unprosperous, with whose mode of acting the times do not accord." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"This it happens in affairs of state, for when the evils that arise have been foreseen (which it is only given to a wise man to see), they can be quickly redressed, but when, through not having been foreseen, they have been permitted to grow in a way that every one can see them, there is no longer a remedy." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"que el que ayuda a otro a hacerse poderoso causa su propia ruina." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Todos los Estados bien gobernados y todos los príncipes inteligentes han tenido cuidado de no reducir a la nobleza a la desesperación, ni al pueblo al descontento." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"A prince ought to have no other aim or thought, nor select anything else for his study, than war and its rules and discipline; for this is the sole art that belongs to him who rules, and it is of such force that it not only upholds those who are born princes, but it often enables men to rise from a private station to that rank. And, on the contrary, it is seen that when princes have thought more of ease than of arms they have lost their states. And the first cause of your losing it is to neglect this art; and what enables you to acquire a state is to be master of the art." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"no principality is secure without having its own forces;" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"at Florence which included diplomatic missions to various European courts. Imprisoned" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"But by disarming, you at once give offence, since you show your subjects that you distrust them, either as doubting their courage, or as doubting their fidelity, each of which imputations begets hatred against you." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Such men depend solely upon two very uncertain and unstable things: the will and the Fortune of him who granted them the state. But they do not know how, and are unable, to maintain their position. They do not know how to hold their state, since if men are not of great intelligence and virtue, it is not reasonable that they should know how to command, having always lived as private citizens." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Thus a wise prince will think of ways to keep his citizens of every sort and under every circumstance dependent on the state and on him; and then they will always be trustworthy" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"That deliverance is of no avail which does not depend upon yourself; those only are reliable, certain, and durable that depend upon yourself and your valor." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Todos veem o que tu aparentas, poucos sentem aquilo que tu és." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"A return to first principles in a republic is sometimes caused by the simple virtues of one man. His good example has such an influence that the good men strive to imitate him, and the wicked are ashamed to lead a life so contrary to his example." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"And it ought to be remembered that there is nothing more difficult to take in hand, more perilous to conduct, or more uncertain in its success, than to take the lead in the introduction of a new order of things" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"He was not a scholar, and he did not have the temperament of one who finds knowledge an end in itself." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"These reflections prompt the question: is it better to be loved rather than feared, or vice versa? The answer is that one would prefer to be both but, since they don't go together easily, if you have to choose, it's much safer to be feared than loved. We" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"the best possible fortress is—not to be hated by the people" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Again, of two who act cautiously, you shall find that one attains his end, the other not, and that two of different temperament, the one cautious, the other impetuous, are equally successful. All which happens from no other cause than that the character of the times accords or does not accord with their methods of acting. And hence it comes, as I have already said, that two operating differently arrive at the same result, and two operating similarly, the one succeeds and the other not. On this likewise depend the vicissitudes of Fortune. For if to one who conducts himself with caution and patience, time and circumstances are propitious, so that his method of acting is good, he goes on prospering; but if these change he is ruined, because he does not change his method of acting." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"a prince cannot rely upon what he observes in quiet times, when citizens have need of the state, because then everyone agrees with him; they all promise, and when death is far distant, they all wish to die for him; but in troubled times, when the state has need of its citizens, then he finds but few. And so much the more is this experiment dangerous, inasmuch as it can only be tried once. Therefore, a wise prince ought to adopt such a course that his citizens will always in every sort and kind of circumstance have need of the state and of him, and then he will always find them faithful." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"it is necessary for you to study; since, then, you have no longer the excuse of illness, take pains to study letters and music, for you see what honour is done to me for the little skill I have. Therefore, my son, if you wish to please me, and to bring success and honour to yourself, do right and study, because others will help you if you help yourself." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Cornelius Tacitus when he says, that 'men are readier to pay back injuries than benefits, since to requite a benefit is felt to be a burthen, to return an injury a gain." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Because, if one is on the spot, disorders are seen as they spring up, and one can quickly remedy them; but if one is not at hand, they are heard of only when they are great, and then one can no longer remedy them." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"The wish to acquire is in truth very natural and common, and men always do so when they can, and for this they will be praised, not blamed; but when they cannot do so, yet wish to do so by any means, then there is folly and blame." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Those princes or republics that wish to maintain their integrity must, above all else, maintain the integrity of their religious ceremonies, and must always hold them in veneration, because there can be no greater indication of the ruin of a state than to see a disregard for its divine worship." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"in the beginning of the malady it is easy to cure but difficult to detect, but in the course of time, not having been either detected or treated in the beginning, it becomes easy to detect but difficult to cure. This it happens in affairs of state, for when the evils that arise have been foreseen (which it is only given to a wise man to see), they can be quickly redressed, but when, through not having been foreseen, they have been permitted to grow in a way that everyone can see them, there is no longer a remedy." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Men are more apt to be mistaken in their generalizations than in their particular observations" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"...discontented inhabitants who willingly admit a foreign power either through excessive ambition or through fear, as was the case with the Etolians, who admitted the Romans into Greece. So it was with every province that the Romans entered: they were brought in by the inhabitants themselves." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"En todas las cosas humanas, cuando se examinan de cerca, se demuestra que no pueden apartarse los obstáculos sin que de ellos surjan otros." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"They were freer than their forefathers in dress and living, and spent more in other kinds of excesses, consuming their time and money in idleness, gaming, and women; their chief aim was to appear well dressed and to speak with wit and acuteness, whilst he who could wound others the most cleverly was thought the wisest."" In" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Because the innovator has for enemies all those who have done well under the old conditions, and lukewarm defenders in those who may do well under the new." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"There is nothing more difficult to take in hand, more perilous to conduct or more uncertain in its success, than to take the lead in the introduction of a new order of things." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"We're all players in a game. You're a player or a piece on the board, you move or you're moved. You play the game or the game plays you." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Ognuno vede quello che tu pari, pochi sentono quello che tu se" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"for when religion is once established you may readily bring in arms; but where you have arms without religion it is not easy afterwards to bring in religion. We" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"...no one should marvel at the ease with which Alexander [the Great] kept possession of Asia, or at the difficulties which others, like Pyrrhus and many more, had in preserving their conquests. The difference does not arise from the greater or lesser ability of the conqueror, but from dissimilarities in the conquered lands." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"O maior remédio utilizado contra os desígnios do inimigo é fazeres voluntariamente aquilo que ele planeja que tu faças à força, porque fazendo-o de forma voluntária, tu o fazes com ordem e para vantagem tua e desvantagem dele; se o fizesses à força, seria então a tua ruína." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"From this arises an argument: whether it is better to be loved than feared. I reply that one should like to be both one and the other; but since it is difficult to join them together, it is much safer to be feared than to be loved when one of the two must be lacking." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"One can assess a prince's intelligence by looking at the men with whom he surrounds himself." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"I have not found among my possessions anything which I hold more dear than, or value so much as, the knowledge of the actions of great men, acquired by long experience in contemporary affairs and a continual study of antiquity, which, having reflected upon it with great and prolonged diligence, I now send, digested into a little volume, to your Magnificence." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"one has to remark that men ought either to be well treated or crushed because they can avenge themselves of lighter injuries; of more serious ones they cannot, therefore the injury that is to be done to a man ought to be of such a kind that one does not stand in fear of revenge." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"For he who quells disorder by a very few signal examples will in the end be more merciful than he who from too great leniency permits things to take their course and so to result in rapine and bloodshed; for these hurt the whole State, whereas the severities of the Prince injure individuals only." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"or he who innovates will have for his enemies all those who are well off under the existing order of things, and only lukewarm supporters in those who might be better off under the new. This lukewarm temper arises partly from the fear of adversaries who have the laws on their side, and partly from the incredulity of mankind, who will never admit the merit of anything new, until they have seen it proved by the event. The result, however, is that whenever the enemies of change make an attack, they do so with all the zeal of partisans, while the others defend themselves so feebly as to endanger both themselves and their cause." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"If his ministers are capable and loyal, people will always reckon a ruler astute, because he was able to recognize their ability and command their loyalty. When they are not, people will always have reason to criticize, because the first mistake the ruler made was in his choice of ministers. Everyone" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"he who is the cause of another becoming powerful is ruined because that predominance has been brought about either by astuteness or else by force, and both are distrusted by him who has been raised to power." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"For love is held by the tie of obligation, which, because men are a sorry breed, is broken on every whisper of private interest; but fear is bound by the apprehension of punishment which never relaxes its grasp." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Since a ruler has to be able to act the beast, he should take on the traits of the fox and the lion; the lion can't defend itself against snares and the fox can't defend itself from wolves. So you have to play the fox to see the snares and the lion to scare off the wolves. A ruler who just plays the lion and forgets the fox doesn't know what he's doing. Hence a sensible leader cannot and must not keep his word if by doing so he puts himself at risk, and if the reasons that made him give his word in the first place are no longer valid. If all men were good, this would be bad advice, but since they are a sad lot and won't be keeping their promises to you, you hardly need to keep yours to them. Anyway, a ruler will never be short of good reasons to explain away a broken promise. It would be easy to cite any number of examples from modern times to show just how many peace treaties and other commitments have been rendered null and void by rulers not keeping their word. Those best at playing the fox have done better than the others. But you have to know how to disguise your slyness, how to pretend one thing and cover up another. People are so gullible and so caught up with immediate concerns that a con man will always find someone ready to be conned." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Among the admirable achievements of Hannibal is included in this: that although he led a huge army, made up of countless different races, on foreign campaigns, there was never any dissension, either among the troops themselves or against their leader, whether things were going well or badly. For this, inhuman cruelty was wholly responsible. It was this, along with his countless other qualities, which made him feared and respected by his soldiers. If it had not been for his cruelty, his other qualities would not have been enough. The historians, having given little thought to this, on the one hand admire what Hannibal achieved, and on the other condemn what made his achievements possible." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"A prince is also respected when he is either a true friend or a downright enemy, that to say, when, without any reservation, he declares himself in favour of one party against the other; which course will always be more advantageous than standing neutral; because if two of your powerful neighbours come to blows, they are of such a character that, if one of them conquers, you have either to fear him or not. In either case it will always be more advantageous for you to declare yourself and to make war strenuously; because, in the first case, if you do not declare yourself, you will invariably fall a prey to the conqueror, to the pleasure and satisfaction of him who has been conquered, and you will have no reasons to offer, nor anything to protect or to shelter you. Because he who conquers does not want doubtful friends who will not aid him in the time of trial; and he who loses will not harbour you because you did not willingly, sword in hand, court his fate." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"... From want of foresight men make changes which relishing well at first do not betray their hidden venom, as I have already observed respecting hectic fever. Nevertheless, the ruler is not truly wise who cannot discern evils before they develop themselves, and this is a faculty given to few." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Men always praise antiquity and fault the present, although not always reasonably, and they are partisans of things past such that not only do they celebrate those ages that they know from what historians have preserved of them, but also those that as old men they recall having seen in their youth. And if this opinion of theirs is false, as it is most of the time, I am persuaded that there are various causes that lead them into this deception." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"hectic" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"men ought either to be well treated or crushed, because they can avenge themselves of lighter injuries, of more serious ones they cannot;" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"How does one use power to do good, when wielding power requires one to do evil ?" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Florence which included diplomatic missions to various European courts." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Men can assist Fortune but not oppose her; they can weave her schemes but they cannot break them." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"This it happens in affairs of state, for when the evils that arise have been foreseen (which it is only given to a wise man to see), they can be quickly redressed, but when, through not having been foreseen, they have been permitted to grow in a way that everyone can see them, there is no longer a remedy." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Therefore, he who considers it necessary to secure himself in his new principality, to win friends, to overcome either by force or fraud, to make himself beloved and feared by the people, to be followed and revered by the soldiers, to exterminate those who have power or reason to hurt him, to change the old order of things for new, to be severe and gracious, magnanimous and liberal, to destroy a disloyal soldiery and to create new, to maintain friendship with kings and princes in such a way that they must help him with zeal and offend with caution, cannot find a more lively example than the actions of this man." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"And as to this little thing [his book], when it has been read it will be seen that during the fifteen years I have given to the study of statecraft I have neither slept nor idled; and men ought ever to desire to be served by one who has reaped experience at the expense of others. And of my loyalty none could doubt, because having always kept faith I could not now learn how to break it; for he who has been faithful and honest, as I have, cannot change his nature; and my poverty is a witness to my honesty." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"A Prince, therefore, should have no care or thought but for war, and for the regulations and training it requires, and should apply himself exclusively to this as his peculiar province; for war is the sole art looked for in one who rules, and is of such efficacy that it not merely maintains those who are born Princes, but often enables men to rise to that eminence from a private station; while, on the other hand, we often see that when Princes devote themselves rather to pleasure than to arms, they lose their dominions." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Such as they are, its ethics are those of Machiavelli's contemporaries; yet they cannot be said to be out of date so long as the governments of Europe rely on material rather than on moral forces." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Men are ‘ungrateful, fickle, simulators and deceivers, avoiders of danger, and greedy for gain. While you work for their benefit, they are completely yours, offering you their blood, their property, their lives, and their sons, as I said above, when the need is far away. But when it draws nearer to you, they turn away' (Ch. XVII). It is therefore better to be feared than to be loved, if one cannot be both, because ‘men are less hesitant about injuring someone who makes himself loved than one who makes himself feared'." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Without doubt, princes become great when they overcome difficulties and hurdles put in their path. When fortune wants to advance a new prince... She creates enemies for him, making them launch campaigns against him  so that he is compelled to overcome them and climb higher on the ladder that they have brought him. Therefore, many judge that a wise prince must skillfully fan some enmity whenever the opportunity arises, so that in crushing it he will increase his standing." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"he who has acquired them should go and reside there. This would make his position more secure and durable, as it has made that of the Turk in Greece, who, notwithstanding all the other measures taken by him for holding that state, if he had not settled there, would not have been able to keep it. Because, if one is on the spot, disorders are seen as they spring up, and one can quickly remedy them; but if one is not at hand, they are heard of only when they are great, and then one can no longer remedy them." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Men are more ready to offend one who desires to be beloved than one who wishes to be feared." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"A sign of intelligence is an awareness of one's own ignorance." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"The aim of the people is more honest than that of the nobility, the latter desiring to oppress, and the former merely to avoid oppression." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"do not let our princes accuse fortune for the loss of their principalities after so many years' possession, but rather their own sloth, because in quiet times they never thought there could be a change (it is a common defect in man not to make any provision in the calm against the tempest), and" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Their moral indignation was sometimes feigned, but the Elizabethans' nearly four hundred references to the Florentine Secretary introduced the derogatory terms ‘Machiavellian' and ‘Machiavellianism' into the English language. Some churchmen branded the book the work of the devil and its author an atheist, and Machiavelli's first name came to be associated with an already popular term for the devil: Old Nick." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Above all things he must keep his hands off the property of others, because men more quickly forget the death of their father than the loss of their patrimony." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"It is necessary', he writes, for a prince to learn ‘how not to be good' (Ch. XV). Machiavelli's wording on this matter is extremely precise: a man who wants ‘to profess goodness at all times' will inevitably fail because he is surrounded by many unscrupulous men. Hence, ‘it is necessary for a prince who wishes to maintain himself to learn how not to be good, and to use this knowledge or not to use it according to necessity' (Ch. XV)." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"matters" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"hardly any ruler lives so long as to have time to accustom to right methods a city which has long been accustomed to wrong. Wherefore," -Niccolo Machiavelli
"But when they had to form a particular judgment on the men of their own party, they recognized their defects, and decided that individually no one of them was deserving of what, collectively, they seemed entitled to; and being ashamed of them, turned to bestow their honours on those who deserved them. Of" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"For injuries ought to be done all at one time, so that, being tasted less, they offend less; benefits ought to be given little by little, so that the flavour of them may last longer. And" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"offence, since you show your subjects that you distrust them, either as doubting their courage, or as doubting their fidelity, each of which imputations begets hatred against you." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"a veces, lo que parece virtud es causa de ruina, y lo que parece vicio solo acaba por traer el bienestar y la seguridad." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"one should not be deterred from improving his possessions for fear lest they be taken away from him or another from opening up trade for fear of taxes;" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"government should be elevated into a living moral force, capable of inspiring the people with a just recognition of the fundamental principles of society;" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"prudence consists in knowing how to distinguish the character of troubles, and for choice to take the lesser evil." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Men ought to attempt everything and fear nothing." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"But the difficulties occur in a new principality. And firstly, if it be not entirely new, but is, as it were, a member of a state which, taken collectively, may be called composite, the changes arise chiefly from an inherent difficulty which there is in all new principalities; for men change their rulers willingly, hoping to better themselves, and this hope induces them to take up arms against him who rules: wherein they are deceived, because they afterwards find by experience they have gone from bad to worse." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"He has only to take care that they do not get hold of too much power and too much authority, and then with his own forces, and with their goodwill, he can easily keep down the more powerful of them, so as to remain entirely master in the country." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"The wise man does at once what the fool does finally." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Moreover, no one feels grateful to anyone for those benefits of freedom that all share in common, at least so long as they enjoy them." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"But when states are acquired in a country differing in language, customs, or laws, there are difficulties, and good fortune and great energy are needed to hold them, and one of the greatest and most real helps would be that he who has acquired them should go and reside there." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"These reflections prompt the question: is it better to be loved rather than feared, or vice versa? The answer is that one would prefer to be both but, since they don't go together easily, if you have to choose, it's much safer to be feared than loved. We can say this of most people: that they are ungrateful and unreliable; they lie, they fake, they're greedy for cash and they melt away in the face of danger. So long as you're generous and, as I said before, not in immediate danger, they're all on your side: they'd shed their blood for you, they'd give you their belongings, their lives, their children. But when you need them they turn their backs on you. The ruler who has relied entirely on their promises and taken no other precautions is lost. Friendship that comes at a price, and not because people admire your spirit and achievements, may indeed have been paid for, but that doesn't mean you really possess it and you certainly won't be able to count on it when you need it. Men are less worried about letting down someone who has made himself loved than someone who makes himself feared. Love binds when someone recognizes he should be grateful to you, but, since men are a sad lot, gratitude is forgotten the moment it's inconvenient. Fear means fear of punishment, and that's something people never forget." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Therefore, a wise prince must think of a method by which his citizens will need the state and himself at all times and in every circumstance. Then they will always be loyal to him." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"As injúrias devem ser cometidas de uma vez só, de modo que, por sua brevidade, ofendam menos ao paladar; ao passo que os benefícios devem ser feitos aos poucos, para que sejam mais bem saboreados." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"When evening comes, I go back home, and go to my study. On the threshold, I take off my work clothes, covered in mud and filth, and I put on the clothes an ambassador would wear. Decently dressed, I enter the ancient courts of rulers who have long since died. There, I am warmly welcomed, and I feed on the only food I find nourishing and was born to savor. I am not ashamed to talk to them and ask them to explain their actions and they, out of kindness, answer me. Four hours go by without my feeling any anxiety. I forget every worry. I am no longer afraid of poverty or frightened of death. I live entirely through them." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"comedic playwright." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Her zaman iyi olmaya çalışan biri, iyi olmayan çok sayıda insanın arasında bir yıkıntı olmaya mahkumdur." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Going back, then, to the question of being feared or loved, my conclusion is that since people decide for themselves whether to love a ruler or not, while it's the ruler who decides whether they're going to fear him, a sensible man will base his power on what he controls, not on what others have freedom to choose. But he must take care, as I said, that people don't come to hate him." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Os homens se esquecem com maior rapidez da morte de um pai que da perda de um patrimônio." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"...Men judge generally more by the eye than by the hand, because it belongs toeverybody to see you, to few to come in touch with you. Every one seeswhat you appear to be, few really know what you are, and those few darenot oppose themselves to the opinion of the many, who have the majestyof the state to defend them; and in the actions of all men, andespecially of princes, which it is not prudent to challenge, one judgesby the result." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"على المرء أن يكون ثعلبا ليعيش الفخاخ المنصوبة له و أن يكون أسدا ليرهب الذئاب" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Non si debba offendere a un principe e depois fidarse de lui" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"The wish to acquire is in truth very natural and common, and men always do so when they can, and for this they will be praised not blamed; but when they cannot do so, yet wish to do so by any means, then there is folly and blame." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Así pues, la ofensa que se les infiera ha de ser tal que les inhabilite para vengarse." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"He ought to entertain the people with festivals and spectacles at convenient seasons of the year … always maintaining the majesty of his rank, for this he must never consent to abate in anything." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"no es victoria verdadera la que se obtiene con armas ajenas." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Guerra não se evita, mas se adia em favor de outrem." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Os homens são tão simplórios e obedientes às necessidades imediatas que aquele que engana sempre encontrará quem se deixe enganar." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"To get a better grasp of the problem, we have to ask: is the leader introducing the changes relying on his own resources, or does he depend on other people's support; that is, does he have to beg help to achieve his goals, or can he impose them? If he's begging help, he's bound to fail and will get nowhere. But if he's got his own resources and can impose his plans, then it's unlikely he'll be running serious risks. This is why the visionary who has armed force on his side has always won through, while unarmed even your visionary is always a loser. Because on top of everything else, we must remember that the general public's mood will swing. It's easy to convince people of something, but hard to keep them convinced. So when they stop believing in you, you must be in a position to force them to believe." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"And although it appears that the World has become effeminate and Heaven disarmed, yet this arises without doubt more from the baseness of men who have interpreted our Religion in accordance with Indolence and not in accordance with Virtu. For if they were to consider that it (our Religion) permits the exaltation and defense of the country, they would see that it desires that we love and honor her (our country), and that we prepare ourselves so that we can be able to defend her." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"pretexts for taking away the property are never wanting; for he who has once begun to live by robbery will always find pretexts for seizing what belongs to others; but" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Great ambition is the passion of a great character. Those endowed with it may perform very good or very bad acts. All depends on the principles which direct them." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"cannot be called talent to slay fellow-citizens, to deceive friends, to be without faith, without mercy, without religion; such methods may gain empire, but not glory." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"If a prince wants to keep up a reputation for being generous, Machiavelli remarks: it is necessary for him not to neglect any possible means of sumptuous display; in so doing, such a prince will always use up all his resources in such displays and will be eventually obliged, if he wishes to maintain his reputation for generosity, to burden the people with excessive taxes and to do all those things one does to procure money. This will begin to make him hateful to his subjects and, if he becomes impoverished, he will be held in low regard by everyone. (Ch. XVI)" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"a wise man should always enter those paths trodden by great men, and imitate those who have been most excellent, so that if one's own virtue does not match theirs, at least it will have the smell of it. He should do as those prudent archers do* who, aware of the strength of their bow when the target at which they are aiming seems too distant, set their sights much higher than the designated target, not in order to reach such a height with their arrow, but instead to be able, by aiming so high, to strike their target." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"para bem conhecer o caráter do povo, é preciso ser príncipe e, para bem entender o do príncipe, é preciso ser do povo." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"He who is not your friend will demand your neutrality." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Quem cria o poder de outrem se arruína, porque tal poder se origina da astúcia ou da força, e ambas são suspeitas a quem se tornou poderoso." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Let no one contradict my opinion by citing that trite proverb, claiming he who builds upon the people builds upon mud; for that is true when a private citizen makes them his foundation, and allows himself to believe that the common people will free him if he is oppressed by enemies or by the public officials." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"men, walking almost always in paths beaten by others, and following by imitation their deeds, are yet unable to keep entirely to the ways of others or attain to the power of those they imitate." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"From this a general rule is drawn, which never or rarely fails: that he who is the cause of another becoming powerful is ruined because that predominance has been brought about either by astuteness or else by force, and both are distrusted by him who has been raised to power." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"[O utrzymaniu podbitych prowincji] Zostawić im ich własne prawa, czerpać stamtąd pewne dochody i stworzyć wewnątrz rząd oligarchiczny, który by ci je utrzymał w przyjaźni." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"and those modes of defence are alone good, certain and lasting, which depend upon yourself and your own worth." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Having Come to Freedom, a Corrupt People Can with the Greatest Difficulty Maintain Itself Free" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"The dictatorship did not elate me, nor did exile depress me." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"In The Prince Machiavelli mounts two distinct lines of intellectual and political attack, one against the baseness of Medicean statecraft, the other against the too-strict Ciceronian conception of politics. Against both traditions, he elaborates a new ‘art of the state'. He openly declares himself to be an expert in this art." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"E fu di tanta virtù, etiam in privata fortuna, che chi ne scrive, dice: quod nihil illi deerat ad regnandum praeter regnum." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"a prince, so long as he keeps his subjects united and loyal, ought not to mind the reproach of cruelty; because with a few examples he will be more merciful than those who, through too much mercy, allow disorders to arise, from which follow murders or robberies; for these are wont to injure the whole people, whilst those executions which originate with a prince offend the individual only." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"I enter the ancient courts of the men of antiquity where affectionately received by them I pasture on that food that alone is mine and for which I was born, where I am not too timid to speak with them and ask them about the reasons for their actions; and they in their courtesy answer me; and for four hours of time I feel no weariness, I forget every trouble, I do not fear poverty, death does not dismay me; I transfer all of myself into them..." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"takes us the farther distance from the Old World to something new and revolutionary in human thought. That moral center, however, is hard to find with modern eyes. Locating it requires" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"he will see a golden age where each person can hold and defend the opinions that he wishes." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"[...] Porque así como aquellos que dibujan se colocan abajo, en el llano, para considerar la naturaleza de los montes y de los lugares elevados y, para considerar la de los bajos, se colocan en lo alto, sobre los montes, igualmente para conocer bien la naturaleza de los pueblos, es necesario ser príncipe, y para conocer bien la de los príncipes, es necesario ser del pueblo." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Należy bowiem pamiętać, że ludzi trzeba albo potraktować łagodnie albo wygubić, gdyż mszczą się za błahe krzywdy, za ciężkie zaś nie mogą. Przeto gdy się krzywdzi człowieka, należy czynić to w ten sposób, aby nie trzeba było obawiać się zemsty." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Thus the popes, sometimes in zeal for religion, at others moved by their own ambition, were continually calling in new parties and exciting new disturbances." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Republics" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Um príncipe deve ter o extremo cuidado de nunca deixar que saia de sua boca nada que não esteja repleto das cinco qualidades supracitadas [piedade, fé, integridade, humanidade e religião]; e que ele pareça, ao ser visto e ouvido, todo piedade, todo fé, todo integridade, todo humanidade, todo religião - de resto, parecer possuir esta última qualidade é o que há de mais necessário. Os homens em geral julgam mais com os olhos que com as mãos; porque todos são capazes de ver, mas poucos, de sentir; todos veem aquilo que você parece, poucos tocam aquilo que você é; e estes poucos não ousam opor-se à opinião de muitos, que contam com a majestade do Estado para defendê-los; enfim, nas ações de todos os homens, especialmente nas dos príncipes, quando não há juiz a quem apelar, o que vale é o resultado final." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Un hombre prudente debe discurrir siempre por las vías trazadas por los grandes hombres e imitar a aquellos que han sobresalido extraordinariamente por encima de los demás, con el fin de que, aunque no se alcance su virtud, algo nos quede, sin embargo, de su aroma." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Skoro potężny cudzoziemiec wkracza do prowincji, natychmiast łączą się z nim wszyscy ci, co są w niej mniej potężni, kierowani zawiścią przeciw potężniejszemu od siebie." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Just as the observance of divine worship is the cause of the greatness of republics, so the disregard of divine worship is the cause of their ruin, because where fear of God is lacking, that kingdom must either come to ruin or be sustained through fear of a prince who makes up for the shortcomings in its religion." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"لأن للمصلح أعداء بين جميع أولئك الذين يفيدون من النظام القديم، ومن يؤيدونه -المصلح- تأييداً فاتراً بين أولئك الذين قد يفيدون من النظام الجديد كافةً. ويرجع هذا الفتور -من ناحية- إلى أنهم يخشون خصومهم الذين يكون القانون في صالحهم. ويعزي ذلك -من ناحية أخرى- إلى قابلية البشر لعدم التصديق؛ فهم لا يؤمنون بأي جديد إيماناً صادقاً حتى يجربوه بالفعل." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Akıllı hükümdar, yurttaşlarını her zaman ve her durumda kendisine muhtaç bırakmalıdır. Onların sürekli bağlılığını sağlayacak tek yol budur." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"• 'It ought to be remembered that there is nothing more difficult to take in hand, more perilous to conduct, or more uncertain in its success, than to take the lead in the introduction of a new order of things. Because the innovator has for enemies all those who have done well under the old conditions, and lukewarm defenders in those who may do well under the new." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"in all cities, these two distinct parties are found, and from this it arises that the people do not wish to be ruled nor oppressed by the nobles, and the nobles wish to rule and oppress the people; and from these two opposite desires there arises in cities one of three results, either a principality, self-government, or anarchy. A" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"He [the prince] holds to what is right when he can but knows how to do wrong when he must." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"A government which does not trust its citizens to be armed is not itself to be trusted." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Venuta la sera, mi ritorno a casa ed entro nel mio scrittoio; e in sull'uscio mi spoglio quella veste cotidiana, piena di fango e di loto, e mi metto panni reali e curiali; e rivestito condecentemente, entro nelle antique corti delli antiqui huomini, dove, da loro ricevuto amorevolmente, mi pasco di quel cibo che solum è mio e ch'io nacqui per lui; dove io non mi vergogno parlare con loro e domandarli della ragione delle loro azioni; e quelli per loro humanità mi rispondono; e non sento per quattro hore di tempo alcuna noia, sdimentico ogni affanno, non temo la povertà, non mi sbigottisce la morte: tutto mi transferisco in loro." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Sono tanto semplici gli uomini, e tanto ubbidiscono alle necessità presenti, che colui che inganna, troverà sempre chi si lascerà ingannare." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"In this way you have enemies in all those whom you have injured in seizing that principality, and you are not able to keep those friends who put you there because of your not being able to satisfy them in the way they expected, and you cannot take strong measures against them, feeling bound to them." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"The truth is that Machiavelli did try to obtain a position from the Medici, but he did not write The Prince in order to win their favour. 3 He was hoping to be offered a new post in recognition of his unquestionable competence in the ‘art of the state' and as a reward for his abilities and impeccable honesty, not as a gift in reward for flattery. As he wrote in the famous letter to Francesco Vettori of 10 December 1513:" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"men ought ever to desire to be served by one who has reaped experience at the expense of others." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Men in general are as much affected by what a thing appears to be as by what it is, indeed they are frequently influenced more by appearances than by reality." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Los hombres rara vez tienen el valor suficiente para ser o extremadamente buenos o extremadamente malos." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"There is no surer sign of decay in a country than to see the rites of religion held in contempt." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"As the observance of religious worship is the reason for the greatness of a republic, so the contempt for religious worship is the reason for its ruin." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Kurz, das gefährliche ist bei Soldtruppen ihre Feigheit; bei Hilfstruppen ihre Tapferkeit" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Without doubt, princes become great when they overcome the difficulties and obstacles by which they are confronted, and therefore fortune, especially when she desires to make a new prince great, who has a greater necessity to earn renown than an hereditary one, causes enemies to arise and form designs against him, in order that he may have the opportunity of overcoming them, and by them to mount higher, as by a ladder which his enemies have raised. For this reason, many consider that a wise prince, when he has the opportunity, ought with craft to foster some animosity against himself so that, having crushed it, his renown may rise higher." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"It should be borne in mind that there is nothing more difficult to handle, more doubtful of success, and more dangerous to carry through than initiating changes in a state's constitution. The innovator makes enemies of all those who prospered under the old order, and only lukewarm support is forthcoming from those who would prosper under the new." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"These men and others like them who rise to sovereignty through their own abilities face all kinds of difficulties when setting up their states but then hold on to them fairly easily. The initial difficulties depend in large part on the fact that in order to establish their government and guarantee its security they have to impose a new administrative system and new procedures. Here we have to bear in mind that nothing is harder to organize, more likely to fail, or more dangerous to see through, than the introduction of a new system of government. The person bringing in the changes will make enemies of everyone who was doing well under the old system, while the people who stand to gain from the new arrangements will not offer wholehearted support, partly because they are afraid of their opponents, who still have the laws on their side, and partly because people are naturally sceptical: no one really believes in change until they've had solid experience of it." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Many writers have dreamed up republics and kingdoms that bear no resemblance to experience and never existed in reality; there is such a gap between how people actually live and how they ought to live that anyone who declines to behave as people do, in order to behave as they should, is schooling himself for catastrophe and had better forget personal security: if you always want to play the good man in a world where most people are not good, you'll end up badly. Hence, if a ruler wants to survive, he'll have to learn to stop being good, at least when the occasion demands." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Es defecto común de los hombres no preocuparse por la tempestad durante la bonanza." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"the authority that is seized by violence, not that given by votes, harms republics." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"moral that it is far better to earn the confidence of the people than to rely on fortresses." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"He who becomes the ruler of a city that is used to living under its own laws and does not knock it down, must expect to be knocked down by it. Whenever it rebels, it will find strength in the language of liberty and will seek to restore its ancient constitution. Neither the passage of time nor good treatment willmake its citizens forget their previous liberty. No matter what one does, and what precautions one takes, if one does not scatter and drive away the original inhabitants, one will not destroy the memory of liberty or the attraction of the old institutions." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"He who has annexed them, if he wishes to hold them, has only to bear in mind two considerations: the one, that the family of their former lord is extinguished; the other, that neither their laws nor their taxes are altered, so that in a very short time they will become entirely one body with the old principality." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"I consider that it is better to be adventurous than cautious, because fortune is a woman, and if you wish to keep her under it is necessary to beat and ill-use her; and it is seen that she allows herself to be mastered by the adventurous rather than by those who go to work more coldly. She is, therefore, always, woman-like, a lover of young men, because they are less cautious, more violent, and with more audacity command her." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"And again, he need not make himself uneasy at incurring a reproach for those vices without which the state can only be saved with difficulty, for if everything is considered carefully, it will be found that something which looks like virtue, if followed, would be his ruin; whilst something else, which looks like vice, yet followed brings him security and prosperity." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Каждый знает, каков ты с виду, немногим известно, каков ты на самом деле…" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"for men change their rulers willingly, hoping to better themselves, and this hope induces them to take up arms against him who rules: wherein they are deceived, because they afterwards find by experience they have gone from bad to worse." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"He who has relied on Fortune less has maintained his position best." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Nevertheless, not to extinguish our free will, I hold it to be true that Fortune is the arbiter of one-half of our actions, but that she still leaves us to direct the other half, or perhaps a little less." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Nicia: God send him the plague!Timoteo: Why?Nicia: So he'll get it!" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"[T]he Romans, observing troubles from afar, always found remedies for them and never allowed them to develop in order to avoid a war, for they knew that war does not go away, but is merely deferred to the advantage of others." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"because friendships that are obtained by payments, and not by greatness or nobility of mind, may indeed be earned, but they are not secured, and in time of need cannot be relied upon; and men have less scruple in offending one who is beloved than one who is feared, for love is preserved by the link of obligation which, owing to the baseness of men, is broken at every opportunity for their advantage; but fear preserves you by a dread of punishment which never fails." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Severities should be dealt out all at once, so that their suddenness may give less offense; benefits ought to be handed ought drop by drop, so that they may be relished the more." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"The temper of the multitude is fickle" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"can satisfy the people, for their object is more righteous than that of the nobles, the latter wishing to oppress, while the former only desire not to be oppressed." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Anyone who believes that new benefits make men of high station forget old injuries deceives himself." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"although crimes may win an empire, they do not win glory." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"this is to be asserted in general of men, that they are ungrateful, fickle, false, cowardly, covetous, and as long as you succeed they are yours entirely; they will offer you their blood, property, life, and children, as is said above, when the need is far distant; but when it approaches they turn against you. And" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"And the first cause of your losing it is to neglect this art; and what enables you to acquire a state is to be master of the art." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Hatred is gained as much by good works as by evil." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Roman authorities recommended that a very effective way to persuade and move a person or a council to adopt a particular policy is to offer examples taken from history. Exemplification, as the author of the Ad Herennium wrote, ‘renders a thought more brilliant when used for no other purpose than beauty; clearer, when throwing more light upon what was somewhat obscure; more plausible, when giving the thought a greater verisimilitude; more vivid, when expressing everything so lucidly that the matter can, I may almost say, be touched by the hand'." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"إن البسطاء من الناس على استعدادٍ لقبول أي أمرٍ واقع، ومن يخدعُهُم سيجد من بينهم من يقبل أن ينخدع بسهولة." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"It's easy to convince people of something, but hard to keep them convinced." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"I also believe that he who adapts his policies to suit the times will succeed, and he who does not, will fail." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"But a man is not often found sufficiently circumspect to know how to accommodate himself to the change, both because he cannot deviate from what nature inclines him to do, and also because, having always prospered by acting in one way, he cannot be persuaded that it is well to leave it; and, therefore, the cautious man, when it is time to turn adventurous, does not know how to do it, hence he is ruined; but had he changed his conduct with the times fortune would not have changed." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Whoever considers the past and the present will readily observe that all cities and all peoples are and ever have been animated by the same desires and the same passions; so that it is easy, by diligent study of the past, to foresee what is likely to happen in the future in any republic, and to apply those remedies that were used by the ancients, or, not finding any that were employed by them, to devise new ones from the similarity of the events." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Human nature ruins everything." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"for men change their rulers willingly, hoping to better themselves, and this hope induces them to take up arms against him who rules: wherein they are deceived, because they afterwards find by experience they have gone from bad to worse. This" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"The chief foundations of all states, new as well as old or composite, are good laws and good arms; and as there cannot be good laws where the state is not well armed," -Niccolo Machiavelli
"... Men for the most part follow in the footsteps and imitate the actions of others..." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"And the usual course of affairs is that, as soon as a powerful foreigner enters a country, all the subject states are drawn to him, moved by the hatred which they feel against the ruling power." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"it is necessary to be a fox to discover the snares and a lion to terrify the wolves." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"De là naît une dispute: s'il est meilleur d'être aimé que craint, ou l'inverse. On répond qu'on voudrait être l'un et l'autre; mais comme il est difficile de les marier ensemble, il est beaucoup plus sûr d'être craint qu'aimé, quand on doit manquer de l'un des 2." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Francisco Sforza tuvo siempre por adversario a los Bracceschi, y se vigilaron mutuamente; al fin, Francisco volvió sus miras hacia la Lombardía, y Braccio hacia la Iglesia y el reino de Nápoles." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"En hij kan het beste te werk gaan zoals bekwame boogschutters, die wanneer ze het doel dat ze willen raken te ver weg achten, omdat ze weten wat de kracht van hun boog is, het mikpunt veel hoger nemen dan het doelwit, niet om met hun pijl zo hoog te komen, maar om met behulp van dat hoge mikpunt hun doel te kunnen bereiken." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Em política (...) não há (...) verdade senão a efetiva. São os efeitos que contam, é a eficácia que exprime o sucesso" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"You must know there are two ways of contesting, the one by the law, the other by force; the first method is proper to men, the second to beasts; but because the first is frequently not sufficient, it is necessary to have recourse to the second." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"It is not titles that honor men, but men that honor titles" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Men more quickly forget the death of their father than the loss of their patrimony." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Por otro lado, aquí se inicia el proceso de personificación del Estado que más tarde desarrollará Hobbes: el Estado representa los intereses del todo y, en aras de la preservación de los mismos, emite normas para regular las acciones externas entre los individuos que interactúan socialmente." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Men are less worried about letting down someone who has made himself loved than someone who makes himself feared." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Debbe per tanto mai levare el pensiero da questo esercizio della guerra, e nella pace vi si debbe più esercitare che nella guerra: il che può fare in dua modi; l'uno con le opere, l'altro con la mente. E, quanto alle opere, oltre al tenere bene ordinati et esercitati li sua, debbe stare sempre in sulle caccie, e mediante quelle assuefare el corpo a' disagi; e parte imparare la natura de' siti, e conoscere come surgono e' monti, come imboccano le valle, come iacciono e' piani, et intendere la natura de' fiumi e de' paduli, et in questo porre grandissima cura.(He ought never, therefore, to have out of his thoughts this subject of war, and in peace he should addict himself more to its exercise than in war; this he can do in two ways, the one by action, the other by study. As regards action, he ought above all things to keep his men well organized and drilled, to follow incessantly the chase, by which he accustoms his body to hardships, and learns something of the nature of localities, and gets to find out how the mountains rise, how the valleys open out, how the plains lie, and to understand the nature of rivers and marshes, and in all this to take the greatest care. )(Chapter XIV)" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"This will turn out well for you, but it is necessary for you to study; since, then, you have no longer the excuse of illness, take pains to study letters and music, for you see what honour is done to me for the little skill I have. Therefore, my son, if you wish to please me, and to bring success and honour to yourself, do right and study, because others will help you if you help yourself." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"and those whom he offends, remaining poor and scattered, are never able to injure him; whilst the rest being uninjured are easily kept quiet, and at the same time are anxious not to err for fear it should happen to them as it has to those who have been despoiled." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Anyone who becomes master of a city accustomed to a free way of life, and does not destroy it, may expect to be destroyed by it himself, because when it rebels, it will always appeal to the spirit of freedom and its ancient institutions, which are never forgotten, despite the passage of time any benefits bestowed by the new ruler. Whatever he does, [...] they will never forget their lost liberties and their ancient institutions, and will immediately attempt to recover them whenever they have an opportunity [... ]In republics there is greater vitality, more hatred, and a stronger desire for revenge; they do not forget, indeed cannot forget, their lost liberties." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"E debbasi considerare come non è cosa più difficile a trattare, né più dubia a riuscire, né più pericolosa a maneggiare, che farsi capo ad introdurre nuovi ordini." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Siempre el partido más débil se unirá a las fuerzas externas, y el otro no podrá resistir" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"The prince who holds a country differing in the above respects ought to make himself the head and defender of his less powerful neighbours, and to weaken the more powerful amongst them, taking care that no foreigner as powerful as himself shall, by any accident, get a footing there. And the usual course of affairs is that, as soon as a powerful foreigner enters a country, all the subject states are drawn to him, moved by the hatred which they feel against the ruling power." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"از آن‌جا که شهریار را گریزی از آن نیست که شیوۀ ددان را نیک به کار بندد، می‌باید هم شیوۀ روباه را به کار بندد و هم شیوۀ شیر را. زیرا شیر از دام نتواند گریخت و روباه از چنگالِ گرگان." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"آرزومندی به‌راستی چیزی‌ست طبیعی و همگانی. و اگر کسی در آرزویی کامیاب شود در خورِ ستایش است نه نکوهش. امّا اگر کسی به آرزویی نتواند رسید و باز به هر بهایی آن را طلب کند، سزاوار نکوهش است." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Li quali modi possono fare acquistare imperio, ma non gloria." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"وكفى الرومان فخرًا أن سياستهم هي سياسة الحكماء من الملوك والعقلاء من الأمراء! إذ هي عدم اقتصارهم على الاهتمام بالحاضر وحده بل امتداد حسبانهم إلى غياهب المستقبل، فيعدون له عدده ليتقوا ما يمكن أن يكون؛ لأن الإنسان إذا حسب للمصائب حسابًا استطاع أن يفر منها، أما إذا صبر حتى تأتي، فربما لا يجديه ما يتخذ من الوسائل السريعة لدفعها، فيكون مثلها كمثل حُمَّى الدق التي يصعب على الأطباء اكتشافها في بداية أمرها، مع سهولة علاجها، ولكنها إذا تمكنت سهل اكتشافها واستحال علاجها،" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Mais comment un prince pourra connaître son ministre, voici un moyen qui ne trompe jamais: quand tu vois le ministre penser plus à soi qu'à toi et que dans toutes les affaires il recherche là-dedans son profit, un tel homme ainsi fait jamais ne sera bon ministre, jamais tu ne te pourras fier à lui." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"A prince who wants to keep his authority must learn how not to be good and use that knowledge, or refrain from using it, as necessity requires." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"the prince who holds a country differing in the above respects ought to make himself the head and defender of his powerful neighbours, and to weaken the more powerful amongst them, taking care that no foreigner as powerful as himself shall, by any accident," -Niccolo Machiavelli
"فشتان ما بين رجل مسلح، ورجل أعزل، ومهما كان الأمر، لن نرى رجلًا مُسلحًا يُطيع رجلًا أعزلًا، وهو بكامل إرادتِه، ولن نرى أعزلًا سالمًا بين أتباعِهِ المُسلّحين، فمن المُستحيل أن يعمل الاثنان معًا في سلام، لأن إحداهما مُحتَقر، والآخر كثير الشك." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"I certainly think that it is better to be impetuous than cautious, for fortune is a woman, and it is necessary if you wish to master her, to conquer her." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"One error into which Princes, unless very prudent or very fortunate in their choice of friends, are apt to fall, is of so great importance that I must not pass it over. I mean in respect of flatterers. These abound in Courts, because men take such pleasure in their own concerns, and so deceive themselves with regard to them, that they can hardly escape this plague; while even in the effort to escape it there is risk of their incurring contempt.For there is no way to guard against flattery but by letting it be seen that you take no offense in hearing the truth: but when every one is free to tell you the truth respect falls short." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Lo que considera un error es que la política se piense idealizándola contra la evidencia empírica a costa de supeditarla rígidamente a las normas y valores cristianos." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Książę powinien, skoro ma po temu sposobność, podsycać zręcznie jakąś nieprzyjaźń przeciwko sobie, aby stać się jeszcze większym przez jej zgniecenie." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Since love and fear can hardly  exist together,if we must choose between them, it is safer to be feared than loved" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"His actions have arisen in such a way, one out of the other, that men have never been given time to work steadily against him." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"as the physicians say it happens in hectic fever, that in the beginning of the malady it is easy to cure but difficult to detect, but in the course of time, not having been either detected or treated in the beginning, it becomes easy to detect but difficult to cure." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"All the same, and so as not to give up on our free will, I reckon it may be true that luck decides the half of what we do, but it leaves the other half, more or less, to us. It's like one of those raging rivers that sometimes rise and flood the plain, tearing down trees and buildings, dragging soil from one place and dumping it down in another. Everybody runs for safety, no one can resist the rush, there's no way you can stop it. Still, the fact that a river is like this doesn't prevent us from preparing for trouble when levels are low, building banks and dykes, so that when the water rises the next time it can be contained in a single channel and the rush of the river in flood is not so uncontrolled and destructive." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"The main foundations of every state, new states as well as ancient or composite ones, are good laws and good arms; and because you cannot have good laws without good arms, and where there are good arms, good laws inevitably follow." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"وهنا يتحتم علينا أن نلحظ أنه من واجب الأمير أن يحذر التحالف مع من هو أقوى منه حتى يعتدي على غيره، إلا إذا كان مضطرًا لذلك، لأنه إذا ظفر ذاك الحليف بالنصر، فستظل أنت تحت سُلطانِه." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Si se conocen anticipadamente los males que pueden después manifestarse, lo que no concede el cielo más que a un hombre sabio y bien prevenido, quedan curados muy pronto. Pero cuando, por no haberlos conocido, se les deja tomar un incremento tal que llega a noticia de todo el mundo, no hay ya arbitrio que los remedie." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Returning to the question of being feared or loved, I come to the conclusion that, men loving according to their own will and fearing according to that of the prince, a wise prince should establish himself on that which is in his own control and not in that of others; he must endeavour only to avoid hatred, as is noted." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Die Menschen sind undankbar, unbeständig, heuchlerisch, furchtsam und eigennützig." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Di che si cava una regola generale, la quale mai o raro falla: che chi è cagione che uno diventi potente, ruina; perché quella potenzia è causata da colui o con industria o con forza; e l'una e l'altra di queste dua è sospetta a chi è diventato potente." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"El conflicto no tiene solución sino cuando Pío XI -este gran papa tan inflexible como conciliador según era menester- se avino a convenir con Mussolini, en 1929, los Acuerdos de Letrán, por los cuales, a cambio de la soberanía pontificia sobre un territorio minúsculo (44 hectáreas tiene en números redondos el Estado de la Ciudad del Vaticano) reconoce la Santa Sede la existencia del Reino de Italia con el territorio que le compete y con Roma como capital. (p. 15)Lo que no depende de la poca o mucha virtud del conquistador, sino de la naturaleza de lo conquistado. (p. 7)… Porque el vulgo se deja llevar siempre del éxito y de las apariencias, y en el mundo no hay sino vulgo (nel mondo non è se non vulgo). (p. 37).. el dicho de Renan: Después de Atenas, ninguna ciudad ha contribuido tanto como Florencia en la promoción del espíritu humano. (p. 9)Con lo cual queda despachada la cuestión del fin y los medios, los cuales, si son malos, no pueden jamás ponerse por obra, así sea en la consecución del más santo de los fines. (p. 47)Nicolás Maquiavelo fue un escritor extraordinariamente fecundo, y en todos los muchos y variados géneros que cultivó -con la sola excepción de sus poesías, decididamente mediocres-, de suprema excelencia. (p. 11)Sin embargo, el que menos ha confiado en el azar es siempre el que más tiempo se ha conservado en su conquista. También facilita enormemente las cosas el que un príncipe, al no poseer otros Estados, se vea obligado a establecerse en el que ha adquirido. Pero quiero referirme a aquellos que no se convirtieron en príncipes por el azar, sino por sus virtudes. Y digo entonces que, entre ellos, los más ilustres han sido Moisés, Ciro, Rómulo, Teseo y otros no menos grandes. Y aunque Moisés sólo fue un simple agente de la voluntad de Dios, merece, sin embargo, nuestra admiración, siquiera sea por la gracia que lo hacía digno de hablar con Dios. Pero también son admirables Ciro, y todos los demás que han adquirido o fundado reinos; y si juzgamos sus hechos y su gobierno, hallaremos que no deslucen ante los de Moisés, que tuvo tan gran preceptor. Y si nos detenemos a estudiar su vida y sus obras, descubriremos que no deben a la fortuna sino el haberles proporcionado la ocasión propicia, que fue el material al que ellos dieron la forma conveniente. Verdad es que, sin esa ocasión, sus méritos de nada hubieran valido; pero también es cierto que, sin sus méritos, era inútil que la ocasión se presentará. (pp. 9-10)Pero volvamos a nuestro asunto. Cualquiera que meditase este discurso hallaría que la causa de la ruina de los emperadores citados ha sido el odio o el desprecio, y descubriría a qué se debe que, mientras parte de ellos procedieron de un modo y parte de otro, en ambos hubo dichosos y desgraciados. (p. 36)porque el que vence no quiere amigos sospechosos y que no lo ayuden en la adversidad, y el que pierde no puede ofrecer ayuda a quien no quiso empuñar las armas y arriesgarse en su favor. (p. 40)" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"which will never permit them to allow the memory of their former liberty to rest; so that the safest way is to destroy them or to reside there." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Before all else, be armed." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"ALL STATES, ALL POWERS, THAT HAVE HELD AND HOLD RULE OVER MEN HAVE been and are either republics or principalities." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"They were freer than their forefathers in dress and living, and spent more in other kinds of excesses, consuming their time and money in idleness, gaming, and women; their chief aim was to appear well dressed and to speak with wit and acuteness, whilst he who could wound others the most cleverly was thought the wisest." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"The Prince before its first legal publication in English in 1640," -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Frederick the Great was accustomed to say: 'The older     one gets the more convinced one becomes that his Majesty     King Chance does three-quarters of the business of this     miserable universe.' Sorel" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Que pour être efficace, il faut cacher ses intentions." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Lui had made five mistakes: He had eliminated small powers, strengthened a powerful one in Italy, handed Italy over to a very strong foreigner, had not lived in Italy, and had not established a colony there." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"ويجب أن نلاحظ أن الرجال أما أن يستمالوا أو تتم إبادتهم""""إن كل من يتسبب في أن يقوي غيره يهلك نفسه ، لأنه إنما يفعل ذلك إما بالحيلة أو بالقوة . وهاتان الصفتان هما موضع شك ممن وصل للسلطة""""ومن الملاحظ إذن أنه عندما نستولي علي ولاية، فإنه يجب علي المنتصر أن يخطط لجميع جرائمه مرة واحدة حتى لا يضطر للعودة إليها في وقت آخر""""ينبغي للأمير ألا تكون له غاية أو فكره سوي الحرب صفحة ٧٧ """"ولا يجب علينا أن نترك ما نقوم به من أفعال في سبيل تحقيق ما ينبغي تحقيقه على أتم وجه فهذا سعي للفناء وليس للبقاء في أفضل حال""""وذلك لأنه إذ استخدم الكرم بالطريقة الصحيحة وبمعناه الحقيقي، فلن يعلم أحد عنه أي شي وبالتالي يوصم صاحبه بالرزيله المضادة وهي الشح والتقتير""""فا الإنفاق من ثروات الآخرين لن يحط من سمعتك. بل إنه سيعلي من قدرك""""لكن عندما يكون الأمير بين أفراد جيشه ومعه عدد كبير من الجنود فإنه يتحتم عليه أن يعرف بالشدة لأنه بدون هذه السمعة لن يحافظ علي وحده الجيش أو يؤدي أي مهمة""""فإن الغاية تبرر الوسيلة ،وهذا حكم لا يمكن نقضه""""وكانت هذه الأعمال متعاقبة متتالية، مما لم يترك مجالا لأي إنسان كي يشعر بالاستقرار، ويبدأ في اتخاذ عمل ضده.""""ونجد أنه يحدث دائماً أن من لا يكون صديقا لك ،يريد منك أن يكون موقفك علي حياد. إما صديقك فيريد منك أن تحمل السلاح وتقف إلى جانبه في الحروب التي يخوضها." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Bilgi prensler yalnızca varolan sorunları değil gelecekte ortaya çıkabilecek sorunları da dikkate alırlar ve her türlü çabayı göstererek bunları önlemeye çalışırlar çünkü sorunlar önceden görüldüğünde çareleri kolayca bulunur ama kapıya dayanmalarını beklersen hastalık artık iyileştirilemez hale geldiği için ilaç çok geç kalmış olur" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"A prince never lacks legitimate reasons to break his promise." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Quem acredita que entre as grandes personagens os benefícios novos fazem esquecer as injúrias velhas, engana-se" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Los hombres se atreven más a ofender al que se hace amar, que al que se hace temer," -Niccolo Machiavelli
"príncipes da Itália" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"When the duke occupied the Romagna he found it under the rule of weak masters, who rather plundered their subjects than ruled them, and gave them more cause for disunion than for union, so that the country was full of robbery, quarrels, and every kind of violence; and so, wishing to bring back peace and obedience to authority, he considered it necessary to give it a good governor. Thereupon" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"For since men who are well treated by one whom they expected to treat them ill, feel the more beholden to their benefactor, the people will at once become better disposed to such a Prince when he protects them, than if he owed his Princedom to them." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"And if any one should say: 'King Louis yielded the Romagna to Alexander and the kingdom to Spain to avoid war,' I answer for the reasons given above that a blunder ought never to be perpetrated to avoid war, because it is not to be avoided, but is only deferred to your disadvantage." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Just as those who draw landscapes place themselves below in the plain to contemplate the nature of the mountains and the highlands, and in order to contemplate the plains, place themselves on high mountains, so to understand the nature of the peoples, one must be a prince, and to understand princes, one must be of the people" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Aquel que en un principado no descubre los males sino una vez nacidos, no es verdaderamente sabio; pero ésta es virtud que tienen pocos" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Des hommes, en effet, on peut dire généralement ceci: qu'ils sont ingrats, changeants, simulateurs et dissimulateurs, ennemis des dangers, avides de gain; et tant que tu leur fais du bien, ils sont tout à toi, t'offrent leur sang, leurs biens, leur vie, leurs enfants, comme j'ai dit plus haut, quand le besoin est lointain; mais quand il s'approche de toi, ils se dérobent." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Pentru ca viața-i scurtă,cu multă suferință,și fără caznă trai nu-i cu putințăconduși de pofte și dorinținoi ne petrecem și ne roadem anii;cin` la plăceri renunță doar strădaniigăsește, chin și suferinți;de-a lumii amăgireacela n-are știre,nici de-ntâmplări-i sucite, de ororice-apasă greu pe-atâția muritori.(Machiavelli, Mătrăguna, in Comedia Italiană din Renaștere, Humanitas, 2012, p9)" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"war is not to be avoided, but is only to be put off to the advantage of others;" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Men are so thoughtless they'll opt for a diet that tastes good without realizing there's a hidden poison in it." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"إذا نظرّنا للأمور نظرة صحيحة، لوجدنا أن بعض ما يبدو فضائل، قد يُهلِكُنا لو طبقناه، والبعض الآخر، الذي يبدو من الرذائل، قد يُسبب سلامة الإنسان، وسعادته أيضًا." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"You might well wonder how on earth, after all their countless betrayals and cruelties, men like Agathocles could sit safe on their thrones for years and even defend themselves against foreign enemies without their citizens ever conspiring against them; and this while many others, equally ready to use cruelty, weren't even able to hold on to their power in peacetime, never mind in war. I think it's a question of whether cruelty is well or badly used. Cruelty well used (if we can ever speak well of something bad) is short-lived and decisive, no more than is necessary to secure your position and then stop; you don't go on being cruel but use the power it has given you to deliver maximum benefits to your subjects. Cruelty is badly used when you're not drastic enough at the beginning but grow increasingly cruel later on, rather than easing off. A leader who takes the first approach has a chance, like Agathocles, of improving his position with his subjects and with God too; go the other way and you have no chance at all. It's worth noting that when you take hold of a state, you must assess how much violence and cruelty will be necessary and get it over with at once, so as not to have to be cruel on a regular basis. When you've stopped using violence your subjects will be reassured and you can then win them over with generosity. If you don't do all it takes at the beginning, because you were badly advised or didn't have the nerve, then you'll always have to be wielding the knife; and you'll never be able to count on your subjects, since with all the violence you're handing out they won't be able to count on you. So get the violence over with as soon as possible; that way there'll be less time for people to taste its bitterness and they'll be less hostile. Favours, on the other hand, should be given out slowly, one by one, so that they can be properly savoured. Most of all, though, a ruler should have the kind of relationship with his subjects where nothing that can happen, good or bad, will force him to change his approach, because if hard times demand it, your cruelty will come too late, while any concessions you make will be seen as wrung out of you and no one will be impressed. 9 Monarchy with public support Now let's turn to our second case, where a private citizen becomes king in his own country not by crime or unacceptable violence, but with the support of his fellow-citizens. We can call this a monarchy with public support and to become its king you don't have to be wholly brilliant or extraordinarily lucky, just shrewd in a lucky way. Obviously, to take control of this kind of state you need the support of either the common people or the wealthy families, the nobles. In" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Di qui nacque che tutt'i profeti armati vinsono, e li disarmati ruinorono. Perché, oltre alle cose dette, la natura de' populi è varia; et è facile a persuadere loro una cosa, ma è difficile fermarli in quella persuasione." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"For he who seizes a tyranny and does not kill Brutus, and he who sets a state free and does not kill Brutus' sons, maintains himself but a little while." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"جهان همیشه پر از آدمیانی بوده است با شهوت‌های همسان." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"All the same, while a ruler can't expect to inspire love when making himself feared, he must avoid arousing hatred. Actually, being feared is perfectly compatible with not being hated. And a ruler won't be hated if he keeps his hands off his subjects' property and their women. If he really has to have someone executed, he should only do it when he has proper justification and manifest cause. Above all, he mustn't seize other people's property. A man will sooner forget the death of his father than the loss of his inheritance. Of course there are always reasons for taking people's property and a ruler who has started to live that way will never be short of pretexts for grabbing more. On the other hand, reasons for executing a man come more rarely and pass more quickly." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Los medios que ofrece son de características bien distintas: la religión, rodearse de personas de talento, usar sicarios para las tareas impopulares, llevar a cabo empresasgrandes y vistosas, etc. En cualquier caso es imprescindible la seducción por la apariencia, aunque implique manipulación de la realidad y de la opinión de los súbditos. Sólo por este camino el príncipe se autoproduce las condiciones necesarias para legitimar su dominación, sin esperar a que éstas emanen de una espontánea voluntad legitimante de los súbditos25." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"إن الرغبة في تملك الأشياء أمر طبيعي وعادي جدًا، ومن يستطيع تحقيق ذلك يمدحه الناس ولا يلومونه، ولكن من يريد التملك ولا يستطيع تحقيقه فإنه يود أن ينجح مهما كلفه الأمر فيقع في أخطاء ينال عنها لومًا كثيرًا" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"In politics there are no perfectly safe courses; prudence consists in choosing the least dangerous ones." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"love is preserved by the link of obligation" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"why should one expect what had worked on one occasion to work on another? Machiavelli stressed that if the political culture of a community had changed—if it had become corrupt, or virtuous—then strategies that had once failed would now work, and vice versa." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Concluderò solo che a uno principe è necessario avere el populo amico: altrimenti non ha, nelle avversità, remedio." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"From this a general rule is drawn which never or rarely fails: that he who is the cause of another becoming powerful is ruined; because that predominancy has been brought about either by astuteness or else by force, and both are distrusted by him who has been raised to power." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Everyone knows how commendable it is for a ruler to keep his word and act sincerely without cunning. However, we have seen through experience that in our time, rulers who achieve great feats are not those who keep their word. They have deceived people with their cunning and ultimately triumphed over sincere rulers." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Porque las ofensas deben inferirse de una sola vez para que, durando menos, hieran menos; mientras que los beneficios deben proporcionarse poco a poco, a fin de que se saboreen mejor." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Lo cierto es' que estos desarrollos teóricos producen una gran tensión en el pensamiento de Maquiavelo, pues no especifica lo suficiente el tránsito que permite alcanzar el ideal republicano (tan apasionadamente defendido) a partir de su contrario: el uso salvífico y autoritario del poder en aras de la estabilidad y seguridad del Estado. El problema radica en que el fin (el bien común) puede ser usado por el príncipe como coartada para, mediante cualesquiera medios, cometer desmanes sin control en aras de sus propios intereses egoístas. Consciente de ello, apunta un mecanismo de salvaguardia posible, si bien no institucionalizado: la insatisfacción de los súbditos que pueden destituir al gobernante." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"It is so far from how one lives to how one should live that he who lets go of what is done for what should be done learns his ruin rather than his preservation" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"si el que construye sobre el pueblo es un príncipe que sabe mandar y es valeroso, que no se amedrenta ante la adversidad, que no carece de otras aptitudes y que con su valor y sus instituciones mantiene despierto el ánimo de todos, nunca se encontrará engañado por el pueblo y se habrá procurado sólidos cimientos." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"All armed prophets succeed whereas unarmed prophets fail." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"There is nothing more to take in hand, more perilous to conduct, or more uncertain in its Success, than to take the lead in introduction of a new order of things." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Those princes who have done great things … in the end have overcome those who relied on their word." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Os homens em geral julgam mais pelos olhos que pelas mãos, porque o ver toca a todos, sentir toca a poucos: todos vêem aquilo que tu pareces, poucos sentem aquilo que tu és" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Two men working differently bring about the same effect; and of two men working similarly, one attains his object and the other does not." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"I think it's a question of whether cruelty is well or badly used. Cruelty well used (if we can speak well of something bad) is short-lived and decisive, no more than is necessary to secure your position and then stop; you don't go on being cruel but use the power it has given you to deliver maximum benefits to your subjects. Cruelty is badly used when you're not drastic enough at the beginning but grow increasingly cruel later on, rather than easing off." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"This it happens in affairs of state, for when the evils that arise have been foreseen (which it is only given to a wise man to see), they can be quickly redressed, but when, through not having been foreseen, they have been permitted to grow in a way that every one can see them, there is no longer a remedy. Therefore, the Romans, foreseeing troubles, dealt with them at once, and, even to avoid a war, would not let them come to a head, for they knew that war is not to be avoided, but is only to be put off to the advantage of others;" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Come evening, I walk home and go into my study. In the passage I take off my ordinary clothes, caked with mud and slime, and put on my formal palace gowns. Then when I'm properly dressed I take my place in the courts of the past where the ancients welcome me kindly and I eat my fill of the only food that is really mine and that I was born for. I'm quite at ease talking to them and asking them why they did the things they did, and they are generous with their answers. So for four hours at a time I feel no pain, I forget all my worries, I'm not afraid of poverty and death doesn't frighten me. I put myself entirely in their minds." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"هر که گمان کند که مردان بزرگ با دل‌جویی‌های تازه آزارهای دیرینه را از یاد می‌برند، خود را می‌فریبد." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"jeżeli ci ludzie, którzy byli z początku przeciwnikami rządów księcia, sami nie mogą utrzymywać się bez oparcia, to zawsze może książę zjednać ich sobie z największą łatwością, a oni tym bardziej są zmuszeni wiernie mu służyć, że odczują potrzebę poprawienia swymi czynami tej złej opinii, którą o nich miał" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Gdy obywatele potrzebują rządu, wtedy każdy biegnie, każdy przyrzeka i każdy gotów, gdy śmierć daleko, umrzeć za niego (księcia), lecz w czasach burzliwych, kiedy państwo potrzebuje obywateli, wtedy znajdzie ich niewielu" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Those who strive to obtain the good graces of a prince are accustomed to come before him with such things as they hold most precious, or in which they see him take most delight; whence one often sees horses, arms, cloth of gold, precious stones, and similar ornaments presented to princes, worthy of their greatness." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"men, walking almost always in paths beaten by others, and following by imitation their deeds, are yet unable to keep entirely to the ways of others or attain to the power of those they imitate. A wise man ought always to follow the paths beaten by great men, and to imitate those who have been supreme, so that if his ability does not equal theirs, at least it will savour of it." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"No hay que atacar al poder si no tienes la seguridad de destruirlo." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"من همانا بر آنم که بی‌پروایی از پرواگری بهتر. چرا که بخت زن است و هر که خواهان اوست می‌باید به زور بر وی دست یابد. و می‌بینیم که وی خود را بیشتر به چنین مردانی وامی‌گذارد تا به آنانی که سرد پای پیش می‌گذارند. و نیز همچون زنان دوستار جوانان است که بی‌پرواترند و زورآورتر، و گستاخ‌تر بر او فرمان می‌رانند." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Y la comparo a uno de esos ríos torrenciales que cuando se enfurecen inundan las llanuras, destruyen árboles y edificios, arrastran la tierra de un lugar y la ponen en otro; todos huyen de ellos, todos ceden a su ímpetu sin poder oponerle resistencia. Y aunque sean así, sin embargo eso no quita que los hombres, en épocas de tranquilidad, puedan tomar precauciones con diques y espigones, de modo que en crecidas posteriores o corran por un canal o su ímpetu no sea ni tan perjudicial ni tan desenfrenado. Lo mismo ocurre con la fortuna, que muestra su poder allí donde no hay una virtud dispuesta a resistírsele, y acomete con sus ímpetus donde sabe que no se han hecho ni espigones ni diques para contenerla14" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Люди в целом судят больше на взгляд, чем на ощупь, ибо видеть дано всякому, а притронуться — нет. Каждый видит, чем ты кажешься, мало кто понимает, что ты есть на самом деле," -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Podobnie czynią dobrzy łucznicy. Ci, widząc bardzo odległy cel, a znając siłę rzutu swego łuku, mierzą nieco wyżej, nie po to, aby dosięgnąć strzała tej wysokości, lecz aby mierząc wyżej, trafić do celu" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"E chi le acquista, volendole tenere, debbe avere dua respetti: l'uno, che il sangue del loro principe antiquo si spenga; l'altro, di non alterare né loro legge né loro dazii; talmente che in brevissimo tempo diventa, con loro principato antiquo, tutto uno corpo." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Moreover, men are less careful how they offend him who makes himself loved than him who makes himself feared. For love is held by the tie of obligation, which, because men are a sorry breed, is broken on every whisper of private interest; but fear is bound by the apprehension of punishment which never relaxes its grasp." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"For the same people which opened him their gates, finding themselves deceived in their hopes, and disappointed in the future benefits which they expected, could not brook not comport with the haughtiness of their new sovereign" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"the one, that the family of their former lord is extinguished; the other, that neither their laws nor their taxes are altered, so that in a very short time they will become entirely one body with the old principality." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Never let others interrupt you, because you will lose respect - beware of a man who interrupts you because he is trying to show you strength." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"لأن الإنسان إذا أمعن النظر رأى أن كثيرًا من الأمور التي تظهر له أنها فضائل قد تؤدي به إلى الخراب إذا اتبعها، وكثيرًا مما يبدو كأنه من الرذائل قد يؤدي إلى الخير والسلامة." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"ومن المعلوم أن الفاتح إذا ثارت عليه الولاية المفتوحة ثم عاد فقهرها ثانية يكون الفتح الثاني ضامنًا لبقائه أبدًا؛ لأن الثورة علمته دروسًا ما كان ليعلمها بدونها، فيسلك بعد في سياسة الولاية المتهورة طريقين؛ الأولى: أن يمد يده بالعقاب لمن يسببون القلاقل ويخلقون المشاغب. والثانية: أن يعرف أماكن الضعف في حكومته فيقويها، فلا يجدها العدو الداخلي، كما كانت قبل عرضة لسهامه فيتمكن منها وفق مرامه،" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"A guerra não se evita, apenas se adia com vantagem para os outros" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Kişinin nasıl yaşadığı ve nasıl yaşaması gerektiği arasında öyle büyük bir uçurum vardır ki, yapılması gereken uğruna yapılanı terk eden kişi, çok geçmeden korunmasını değil, yıkımını öğrenmiş olur." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"mantienen41Así pues, un príncipe que tenga una ciudad así de reforzada y que no se haga odiar, no puede ser atacado, y si hubiera alguien que lo atacara, se tendría que replegar avergonzado, porque las cosas del mundo son tan cambiantes que es casi imposible que alguien con sus ejércitos pueda permanecer un año entero, ocioso, en un asedio. Y a quien replique que si el pueblo tiene sus posesiones fuera y las ve arder, no tendrá paciencia, que el largo asedio y la caridad para consigo mismo le harán olvidar al príncipe, le respondo que un príncipe prudente y animoso superará siempre todas esas dificultades, ora dando esperanzas a los súbditos de que el mal no será largo, ora atemorizándolos con la crueldad del enemigo, ora protegiéndose con destreza de los que le parezcan demasiado atrevidos. Además, lógicamente el enemigo incendiará y destruirá el país nada más llegar, cuando los ánimos de los hombres todavía están enardecidos y dispuestos a la defensa; y por eso mismo el príncipe no debe temer nada, porque después de algunos días, con los ánimos enfriados, el daño ya está hecho, son asumidos los males y ya no hay remedio. Y entonces es cuando más se une el pueblo a su príncipe, pareciéndole que éste le está más obligado al haber sido incendiadas sus casas y destruidas sus posesiones por defenderle a él. Es propio de la naturaleza de los hombres el contraer obligaciones tanto por los beneficios que se hacen como por los que se reciben. De aquí que, si se considera bien todo, no le será difícil a un príncipe prudente mantener firmes los ánimos de sus ciudadanos de principio a fin del asedio, siempre y cuando no les falten los medios de subsistencia y de defensa." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"A principality is created either by the people or by the nobles, accordingly as one or other of them has the opportunity; for the nobles, seeing they cannot withstand the people, begin to cry up the reputation of one of themselves, and they make him a prince, so that under his shadow they can give vent to their ambitions. The people, finding they cannot resist the nobles, also cry up the reputation of one of themselves, and make him a prince so as to be defended by his authority." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Dante says:  Knowledge doth come of learning well retained,   Unfruitful else," -Niccolo Machiavelli
"that those men who at the commencement of a principality have been hostile, if they really need assistance to support themselves, can always be turned into supporters with the greatest ease. They will be tightly bound to serve the prince faithfully because they know it is very necessary for them through their actions to change the bad opinion which the prince had formed of them. Thus the prince always extracts more profit from them than from those who serving him in too much security, may neglect his affairs." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"in the long run a ruler must avoid being hated by his people and must always put their interests before those of the aristocracy; the people are so many, Machiavelli reflected, that power ultimately lies with them." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"que no debemos dejar nacer un desorden para evitar una guerra, pues acabamos no evitándola, y sólo la diferimos, lo que redunda a la postre en perjuicio nuestro." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"For Fortune is a woman who to be kept under must be beaten and roughly handled; and we see that she suffers herself to be more readily mastered by those who so treat her than by those who are more timid in their approaches. And always, like a woman, she favours the young, because they are less scrupulous and fiercer, and command her with greater audacity. Chapter 26 An Exhortation to Liberate Italy from the Barbarians Turning over in my mind all the matters which have above been considered, and debating with myself whether in Italy at the present hour the times are such as might serve to" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"It is better to be bold than too circumspect, because fortune is of a sex which likes not a tardy wooer and repulses all who are not ardent." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Nè creda mai alcuno Stato poter pigliare partiti sicuri; anzi pensi d'avere a prenderli tutti dubbi; perchè si trova questo nell'ordine delle cose, che mai si cerca fuggire uno inconveniente, che non s'incorra in un altro: ma la prudenza consiste in saper cognoscere la qualità degli inconvenienti, e prendere il manco tristo per buono." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Y sucede aquí lo mismo que dicen los médicos acerca de la tisis, que al comienzo del mal es fácil de curar y difícil de diagnosticar, pero, con el paso del tiempo, al no haber sido diagnosticada ni medicada desde el principio, se vuelve fácil de diagnosticar y difícil de curar." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Todo el mundo ve lo que parecéis, pocos conocen a fondo lo que sois, y este pequeño numero no se atreverá a levantarse contra la mayoría, sostenida, además, por la majestad del poder soberano." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"To conclude then: fortune varies but men go on regardless. When their approach suits the times they're successful, and when it doesn't they're not. My opinion on the matter is this: it's better to be impulsive than cautious; fortune is female and if you want to stay on top of her you have to slap and thrust. You'll see she's more likely to yield that way than to men who go about her coldly. And being a woman she likes her men young, because they're not so cagey, they're wilder and more daring when they master her." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Fortune is an impetuous thing that tends to favor the audacious" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"إن الإنسان يقدر جميل من كان ينتظر منه شرًّا، فالشعب يميل إليك في تلك الحال أكثر مما لو وصلت إلى الملك برضائه ورغبته، واكتساب محبة الشعب في تلك الحال تتبع الأحوال، ولا يمكن أن تسن لها قاعدة مطردة." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"يرفعه الأشراف إلى طبقة الإمارة يجد في سبيل الحكم صعوبات أشد من التي يلقاها من يرفعه الشعب؛ لأنه يكون محاطًا برجال يعدون أنفسهم قرناءه وأمثاله، ولذا يلقى ذاته عاجزًا عن إدارة الشئون وتولي الأمر كما يريد." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"el que ayuda a otro a hacerse poderoso causa su propiaruina. Porque es natural que el que se ha vuelto poderoso recele de la misma astucia o de la misma fuerza gracias a las cuales se lo ha ayudado." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"é que os homens, com satisfação, mudam de senhor pensando melhorar e esta crença faz com que lancem mão de armas contra o senhor atual, no que se enganam porque, pela própria experiência, percebem mais tarde ter piorado a situação." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"For these reasons Louis the Twelfth, King of France, quickly occupied Milan, and as quickly lost it; and to turn him out the first time it only needed Lodovico's own forces; because those who had opened the gates to him, finding themselves deceived in their hopes of future benefit, would not endure the ill-treatment of the new prince." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Hükümdar ne olursa olsun asla insanların malına göz dikmemelidir. Çünkü insanlar babalarının ölümünü kolaylıkla içlerine sindirebilirler, ama mal varlıklarından yoksun kalmalarını asla." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"For I do not believe that divisions purposely caused can ever lead to good; on the contrary, when an enemy approaches, divided cities are lost at once, for the weaker faction will always side with the invader, and the other will not be able to stand alone." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"to keep his servant honest the prince ought to study him, honouring him, enriching him, doing him kindnesses, sharing with him the honours and cares; and at the same time let him see that he cannot stand alone," -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Sono questi dominii cosí acquistati, o consueti a vivere sotto uno principe, o usi ad essere liberi; et acquistonsi, o con le armi d'altri o con le proprie, o per fortuna o per virtù." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"This is to be asserted in general of men, that they are ungrateful, fickle, false, cowardly, covetous, and as long as you succeed they are yours entirely; they will offer you blood, property, life, and children, as is said above, when the need is far distant; but when it approaches they turn against you." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Художники, зарисовывающие местность, располагаются внизу на равнине, чтобы присмотреться к характеру гор и возвышенностей, а чтобы обозреть низменности, забираются на вершины. Точно также, чтобы постичь характер народа, необходимо быть государем, а распознать природу государя может только человек из народа." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"And it ought to be remembered that there is nothing more difficult to take in hand, more perilous to conduct, or more uncertain in its success, then to take the lead in the introduction of a new order of things. Because the innovator has for enemies all those who have done well under the old conditions, and lukewarm defenders in those who may do well under the new. This coolness arises partly from fear of the opponents, who have the laws on their side, and partly from the incredulity of men, who do not readily believe in new things until they have had a long experience of them." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Machiavelli was no facile phrasemonger; the conditions under which he wrote" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"los hombres olvidan más pronto la muerte de su padre que la pérdida de su patrimonio." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"When someone enters a province with a different language, customs, and traditions, they must advocate for weaker powers than themselves, weaken the strong powers of that province, and, moreover, not allow a foreign ruler as powerful as themselves to enter those lands for any reason. That foreign ruler will come and settle there with the support of the people living in those lands who are unhappy due to fear or their immoderate ambitions." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"After the deaths of some pontiffs, Osporco, a Roman, succeeded to the papacy; but on account of his unseemly appellation, he took the name of Sergius, and this was the origin of that change of names which the popes adopt upon their election to the pontificate." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Concluiré afirmando tan sólo que el príncipe necesita tener al pueblo de su parte; de lo contrario, no tendrá remedio alguno en la adversidad. Nabis, príncipe de los espartanos, resistió el asedio de toda Grecia y de un victoriosísimo ejército romano, y defendió contra todos ellos su patria y su Estado; llegado el peligro le bastó con cuidarse de unos pocos, lo cual no le habría bastado de haber tenido al pueblo como enemigo." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"الناس أسرع إلى إساءة مَن يحبون منهم إلى إساءة من يرهبون؛ لأن الحب قائم على نفعهم الذاتي، فإذا انتهى هذا النفع ذهب الحب، أما الخوف فأساسه العقاب، ورهبة العقاب لا تزول مطلقًا." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"And it ought to be remembered that there is nothing more difficult to take in hand, more perilous to conduct, or more uncertain in its success, than to take the lead in the introduction of a new order of things," -Niccolo Machiavelli
"People in general judge more by the eyes than by the hands, for everyone can see, but few can feel. Everyone sees what you appear to be, few feel what you are." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"los cimientos indispensables a todos los Estados, nuevos, antiguos o mixtos, son las buenas leyes y las buenas tropas; y" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Mądry pan nie może ani nie powinien dotrzymywać wiary, jeżeli takie dotrzymywanie przynosi mu szkodę i gdy zniknęły jego przyczyny, które spowodowały jego przyrzeczenie. Zapewne gdyby wszyscy ludzie byli dobrzy, ten przepis nie byłby dobry, lecz ponieważ są oni nikczemni i nie dotrzymywaliby tobie wiary, więc ty także nie jesteś zobowiązany im jej dotrzymywać." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"[...]Les hommes sont si naïfs, et ils obéissent tant aux nécessités présentes que celui qui trompe trouvera toujours quelqu'un qui se laissera tromper." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"it is not reasonable that he who is armed should yield obedience willingly to him who is unarmed," -Niccolo Machiavelli
"The Prince' is bestrewn with truths that can be proved at every turn. Men are still the dupes of their simplicity and greed, as they were in the days of Alexander VI. The cloak of religion still conceals the vices which Machiavelli laid bare in the character of Ferdinand of Aragon. Men will not look at things as they really are, but as they wish them to be—and are ruined. In politics there are no perfectly safe courses; prudence consists in choosing the least dangerous ones." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Niccolò di Bernardo dei Machiavelli (May 3, 1469 – June 21, 1527) was an Italian political philosopher, musician, poet, and romantic comedic playwright. He is a figure of the Italian Renaissance and a central figure of its political component, most widely known for his treatises on realist political theory (The Prince) on the one hand and republicanism (Discourses on Livy) on the other. Source: Wikipedia" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Nasıl manzara resmi yapanlar, dağların ve yüksek yerlerin yapısını gözlemlemek için ovada alçak bir konumda duruyor ve alçak yerlerin yapısını gözlemlemek için dağların tepesine çıkıyorlarsa, aynı şekilde, halkların yapısını iyi tanımak için prens olmak ve prenslerin yapısını iyi tanımak için de halktan birisi olmak gerekir." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Bien sûr, on ne peut nommer valeur le fait de tuer les citoyens de sa patrie, de trahir ses amis, d'être parjure, impitoyable et impie ; ces manières de faire peuvent donner du pouvoir, mais non de la gloire." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"that he who is the cause of another becoming powerful is ruined; because that predominancy has been brought about either by astuteness or else by force, and both are distrusted by him who has been raised to power." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"I have received your letter, which has given me the greatest pleasure, especially because you tell me you are quite restored in health, than which I could have no better news; for if God grant life to you, and to me, I hope to make a good man of you if you are willing to do your share.' Then, writing of a new patron, he continues: 'This will turn out well for you, but it is necessary for you to study; since, then, you have no longer the excuse of illness, take pains to study letters and music, for you see what honour is done to me for the little skill I have. Therefore, my son, if you wish to please me, and to bring success and honour to yourself, do right and study, because others will help you if you help yourself." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Cudza zbroja albo spada ci z pleców, albo ciąży, albo gniecie" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"quien promueve el que otro se convierta en poderoso labra su ruina, porque ese poder lo ha provocado o con la astucia o con la fuerza, y tanto la una como la otra resultan sospechosas al que se ha convertido en poderoso." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"But in republics there is more vitality, greater hatred, and more desire for vengeance, which will never permit them to allow the memory of their former liberty to rest; so that the safest way is to destroy them or to reside there." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"one change always leaves the toothing for another." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Machiavelli was undoubtedly a man of great observation, acuteness, and industry; noting with appreciative eye whatever passed before him, and with his supreme literary gift turning it to account in his enforced retirement from affairs." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"And he who becomes master of a city accustomed to freedom and does not destroy it, may expect to be destroyed by it, for in rebellion it has always the watchword of liberty and its ancient privileges as a rallying point, which neither time nor benefits will ever cause it to forget." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"you must know that there are two modes of fighting: one in accordance with the laws, the other with force. The first is proper to man, the second to beasts. But because the first, in many cases, is not sufficient, it becomes necessary to have recourse to the second: therefore, a prince must know how to make good use of the natures of both the beast and the man." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"difícilmente se conspira contra el que goza de mucha estimación." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"É defeito comum dos homens, não fazer contas na bonança com a tempestade" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"La primera causa que haría a un príncipe perder el suyo, sería abandonar el arte de la guerra, como la causa que hace adquirir un reino al que no lo tenía," -Niccolo Machiavelli
"إذا أردت أن تريح نفسك من رجل فاعمد إلى إحدى طريقين؛ الأولى: أن تملقه وتحسن إليه. والثانية: أن تخمد أنفاسه وتنتهي من أمره،" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"nunca se deve deixar prosseguir uma crise para escapar a uma guerra, mesmo porque dela não se foge mas apenas se adia para desvantagem própria." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Y el primer juicio que nos formamos sobre la inteligencia de un señor nace de observar a los hombres que le rodean; y cuando son competentes y fieles se le puede considerar siempre sabio, porque ha sabido reconocer su competencia y mantenerlos fieles a él. Pero cuando son de otra manera siempre cabe hacerse de él un juicio que no sea bueno, porque con esa elección comete el primer error." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"The nature of man is such that people consider themselves put under an obligation as much by the benefits they confer as by those they receive. (p.73)" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Nature that framed us of four elements, warring within our breasts for regiment, doth teach us all to have aspiring minds." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"مردم یا از سرِ ترس به کسی گزند می‌رسانند یا از سرِ نفرت." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"When people are treated well by someone they thought was hostile they respond with even greater loyalty" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"[...] e que se faça como os arqueiros sensatos, os quais, diante de um alvo demasiado distante, e conhecendo até onde vai a potência de seu arco, alçam a mira muito mais alta que o ponto de destino, não para alcançar com suas flechas tanta altura, mas para poder, com o auxílio de tão alta mira, atingir sua meta." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"hailed the Florentine as the first modern thinker to have exposed the nature of political tyranny." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Estas tropas pueden ser útiles y buenas para sus amos, pero para quien las llama son casi siempre funestas; pues" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"un príncipe que a toda costa quiere ser bueno, cuando de hecho está rodeado de gentes que no lo son no puede menos que caminar hacia un desastre." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"أردت أن تريح نفسك من رجل فاعمد إلى إحدى طريقين؛ الأولى: أن تملقه وتحسن إليه. والثانية: أن تخمد أنفاسه وتنتهي من أمره،" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Taki książę, który boi się bardziej swego ludu niż obcych, powinien budować twierdzę, natomiast powinien ich zaniechać tej, który bardziej obawia się obcych niż ludu" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"mantenendosi loro le condizioni vecchie e non vi essendo disformità di costumi, li uomini si vivono quietamente; come s'è visto che ha fatto la Borgogna, la Brettagna, la Guascogna e la Normandia, che tanto tempo sono state con Francia;" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"El príncipe no ha de tener otro objeto, ni abrigar otro propósito, ni cultivar otro arte, que el que enseña, el orden y la disciplina de los ejércitos, porque es el único que se espera ver ejercido por el que manda." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"(es un defecto común entre los hombres no tener en cuenta la tempestad cuando el mar está en calma)," -Niccolo Machiavelli
"A już taka natura ludzka, że jednakowo zobowiązują świadczone, jak i doznane dobrodziejstwa" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Pero cuando las ciudades o provincias están acostumbradas a vivir bajo un principe, y por la extinción de éste y su linaje queda vacante el gobierno, como por un lado los habitantes estfán habituados a obedecer y por otro no tienen a quién, y no se ponen de acuerdo para elegir a uno de entre ellos, ni saben vivir en libertad, y por último tampoco se deciden a tomar las armas contra el invasor, un principe puede fácilmente conquistarlas y retenerlas." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"He had all the attributes of a king except a kingdom." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"در باب این پرسش که می‌باید مهرانگیز بود یا ترس‌انگیز، باید گفت که مهر ورزیدنِ مردم به دلخواه خودشان است، امّا ترسیدن‌شان به دلخواهِ شهریار. پس، شهریارِ خردمند می‌باید بر آنچه در کفِ اوست تکیه زند تا بر آنچه در کفِ دیگران است. و چنان‌که گفتیم، از نفرت‌انگیز بودن می‌باید بپرهیزد و بس." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"li quali non credano in verità le cose nuove, se non ne veggono nata una ferma esperienza." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"[...]L'homme qui en toutes choses veut faire profession de bonté se ruine inéluctablement parmi tant d'hommes qui n'ont aucune bonté." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Krallık etmek için bir krallık dışında hiçbir eksiği yoktu. (Quod nihil illi deerat ad regnandum praeter regnum)" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"The older one gets the more convinced one becomes that his Majesty King Chance does three-quarters of the business of this miserable universe." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Cualquiera que crea que los nuevos beneficios hacen olvidar a los eminentes personajes las antiguas injurias, camina" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"porque nunca hay que dejarse caer creyendo que vas a encontrar a alguien que te recoja. Esto o no sucede o, si sucede, pierdes tu seguridad, porque ese tipo de defensa es vil y no depende de ti. Sólo son buenas, seguras y duraderas las defensas que dependen de ti mismo y de tu virtud." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Przede wszystkim książę żyć powinien ze swoimi poddanymi w sposób taki, którego nie potrzebowałby zmieniać na skutek żadnego pomyślnego czy niepomyślnego wydarzenia. Gdy bowiem pozostawać będziesz pod przymusem czasów burzliwych, za późno będzie na wyrządzanie ludziom zła, a dobro, które wtedy wyświadczysz, na nic się przyda; będzie bowiem uważane za wymuszone, więc nie przyniesie ci żadnego uznania." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Let us enjoy the benefits of the time—but rather the benefits of their own valour and prudence, for time drives everything before it, and is able to bring with it good as well as evil, and evil as well as good." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"A little bit of agitation gives resources to souls and what makes the species prosper isn't peace, but freedom." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Por ello, todo príncipe prudente ha desechado estas tropas y se ha refugiado en las propias, y ha preferido perder con las suyas a vencer con las otras, considerando que no es victoria verdadera la que se obtiene con armas ajenas." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"No sooner were they seated than soldiers issued from secret places and slaughtered Giovanni and the rest." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Por ello las acciones que en un caso pueden poner diques a la fortuna y resultar virtuosas, en el otro pueden fracasar; por ello también el par virtud/fortuna tiene una acepción unipersonal e individual en el primer caso (el recogido en El príncipe) y otra colectiva y republicana en el segundo (el de los Discursos)." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"A prince does not spend much on colonies, for with little or no expense he can send them out and keep them there, and he offends a minority only of the citizens from whom he takes lands and houses to give them to the new inhabitants; and those whom he offends, remaining poor and scattered, are never able to injure him; whilst the rest being uninjured are easily kept quiet, and at the same time are anxious not to err for fear it should happen to them as it has to those who have been despoiled. In" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Therefore Louis made these five errors: he destroyed the minor powers, he increased the strength of one of the greater powers in Italy, he brought in a foreign power, he did not settle in the country, he did not send colonies." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Quien propicia que otro se vuelva poderoso obra su propia ruina." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"And above all things, a prince ought to live amongst his people in such a way that no unexpected circumstances, whether of good or evil, shall make him change; because if the necessity for this comes in troubled times, you are too late for harsh measures; and mild ones will not help you, for they will be considered as forced from you, and no one will be under any obligation to you for them." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"وهو أيهما أنفع للأمير أن يُحَبَّ أكثر مما يُخشى، أم يُهاب أكثر مما يُحب؟ فالجواب أنه ينبغي أن يكون محبوبًا مهابًا، وحيث يصعب الجمع بين الحالتين، فإذا احتاج الأمير لإحداهما فالأفضل أن يُهاب؛ لأنه يحق القول عن الناس عامة أنهم ينكرون الجميل، سريعو التحول، مختلفو الطبائع والغرائز، ميالون لاتقاء الأخطار، ومحبون للكسب، وما دمت تنفعهم فهم لك، ويهبونك دمهم ومتاعهم وحياتهم وبنيهم ما دام الخطر بعيدًا، فإذا أحدق ثاروا عليك، والأمير الذي يعوِّل على وعودهم دون أن يتأهب للحوادث فعاقبته الخراب؛ لأن الصداقة التي تُشرى لا تؤمن عاقبتها، وقد يكون عدمها أفضل منها، ثم إن الناس أسرع إلى إساءة مَن يحبون منهم إلى إساءة من يرهبون؛ لأن الحب قائم على نفعهم الذاتي، فإذا انتهى هذا النفع ذهب الحب، أما الخوف فأساسه العقاب، ورهبة العقاب لا تزول مطلقًا." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"and that to appear to have them is useful; to appear merciful, faithful, humane, religious, upright, and to be so, but with a mind so framed that should you require not to be so, you may be able and know how to change to the opposite." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"He who blinded by ambition, raises himself to a position whence he cannot mount higher, must fall with the greatest loss" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Besides this, one cannot by fair dealing, and without injury to others, satisfy the nobles, but you can satisfy the people, for their object is more righteous than that of the nobles, the latter wishing to oppress, while the former only desire not to be oppressed." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Remember what doctors tell us about tuberculosis: in its early stages it's easy to cure and hard to diagnose, but if you don't spot it and treat it, as time goes by, it gets easy to diagnose and hard to cure. So it is with affairs of state. See trouble in advance (but you have to be shrewd) and you can clear it up quickly. Miss it, and by the time it's big enough for everyone to see it will be too late to do anything about it." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Garde tes amis près de toi, et tes ennemis encore plus près." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"بخت گردان است، امّا مردم در شیوه‌های خود پایدار." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"A wise man ought always to follow the paths beaten by great men, and to imitate those who have been supreme, so that if his ability does not equal theirs, at least it will savour of it. Let him act like the clever archers who, designing to hit the mark which yet appears too far distant, and knowing the limits to which the strength of their bow attains, take aim much higher than the mark, not to reach by their strength or arrow to so great a height, but to be able with the aid of so high an aim to hit the mark they wish to reach." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"in the beginning of the malady it is easy to cure but difficult to detect, but in the course of time, not having been either detected or treated in the beginning, it becomes easy to detect but difficult to cure." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"لما رأيت الزمان نكسا وكل رأس به صداع لزمت بيتًا وصنت عرضًا به من العزة اقتناع" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"You can't have good laws if you don't have good armed forces." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"As to how a Prince is to know his Minister, this unerring rule may be laid down. When you see a Minister thinking more of himself than of you, and in all his actions seeking his own ends, that man can never be a good Minister or one that you can trust." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"A wicked citizen cannot do evil in a republic that is not corrupted" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Of what does not belong to you or to your subjects you should, therefore, be a lavish giver, as were Cyrus, Cæsar, and Alexander; for to be liberal with the property of others does not take from your reputation, but adds to it. What injures you is to give away what is your own. And there is no quality so self-destructive as liberality; for while you practise it you lose the means whereby it can be practised, and become poor and despised, or else, to avoid poverty, you become rapacious and hated." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"From this a general rule is drawn which never or rarely fails: that he who is the cause of another becoming powerful is ruined; because that predominancy has been brought about either by astuteness or else by force, and both are are distrusted by him who has been raised to power." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Maquiavelo parte de la condición humana, es ingrata, inconstante, disimulada, cobarde... por tanto, es mejor que el príncipe sea temido que amado." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"En nuestros tiempos sólo hemos visto hacer grandes cosas a los hombres considerados tacaños; los demás siempre han fracasado." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Se for necessário fazer mal a um homem, então que seja de tal forma grave, que não haja razão para temer a sua vingança." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"so one has to be a prince to get to know the character of a people and a man of the people to know the character of a prince." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"إن الرغبة في تملك الأشياء أمر طبيعي وعادي جدًا، ومن يستطيع تحقيق ذلك يمدحه الناس ولا يلومونه، ولكنه من يريد التملك ولا يستطيع تحقيقه فإنه يود أن ينجح مهما كلفه الأمر فيقع في أخطاء ينال عنها لومًا كثيرًا" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"It cannot be called virtue to kill one's fellow citizens, to betray one's friends, to be without loyalty, without mercy, without religion; by such methods one can acquire power, but not glory." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"سرشت بشر چنان است که همان اندازه با نکویی دیدن از دیگران منّت می‌پذیرد که هنگام نکویی کردن منّت می‌گذارد." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"پرهیز از جنگ هرگز نمی‌باید مایۀ گسستن رشتۀ کارها شود. زیرا گریز از جنگ چه بسا واپس انداختنِ آن به سودِ حریف باشد." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Alexander the Sixth did nothing else but deceive men, nor ever thought of doing otherwise, and he always found victims; for there never was a man who had greater power in asserting, or who with greater oaths would affirm a thing, yet would observe it less." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"men ought either to be well treated or crushed, because they can avenge themselves of lighter injuries, of more serious ones they cannot; therefore the injury that is to be done to a man ought to be of such a kind that one does not stand in fear of revenge. But in maintaining armed men there in place of colonies one spends much more, having to consume on the garrison all the income from the state, so that the acquisition turns into a loss, and many more are exasperated, because the whole state is injured; through the shifting of the garrison up and down all become acquainted with hardship, and all become hostile, and they are enemies who, whilst beaten on their own ground, are yet able to do hurt. For every reason, therefore, such guards are as useless as a colony is useful. Again, the prince who holds a country differing in the above respects ought to make himself the head and defender of his less powerful neighbours, and to weaken the more powerful amongst them, taking care that no foreigner as powerful as himself shall, by any accident, get a footing there; for it will always happen that such a one will be introduced by those who are discontented, either through excess of ambition or through fear, as one has seen already. The Romans were brought into Greece by the Aetolians; and in every other country where they obtained a footing they were brought in by the inhabitants." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Temu wiedzie się dobrze, którego sposób postępowania zgodny jest z duchem czasów" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Los hombres se ganan mucho mejor con las cosas presentes que con las pasadas, y cuando en las presentes hayan provecho las gozan sin inquirir nada." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"في عصرنا هذا لم نرَ عملًا عظيمًا إلا عمن اتصفوا بالبخل، أما غيرهم فقد خربوا أنفسهم، فإن البابا «يوليوس» الثاني اشتهر بالكرم ليبلغ مقام البابوية، فلما وصل إليه لم يرد أن يحتفظ بشهرة السخاء لتسهل عليه محاربة ملك «فرنسا» وقد حارب كثيرًا دون أن يفرض على الناس ضرائب جديدة؛ لأن زمن البخل عوض عليه ما فقده في فترة البذل، و«ملك إسبانيا» الحالي لو كان متصفًا بالكرم ما كان هُيِّئ له أن يفوز في الحروب التي أقامها؛ لأجل هذا لا ينبغي للملك أن يهتم باتهامه بالبخل إذا كان يريد أن لا يسرق شعبه، ويدافع عن نفسه وقت الشدة، وأن لا يصير فقيرًا محتقرًا، وأن لا يصاب بالجشع، فإن رذيلة البخل من الرذائل التي تسهل له الاحتفاظ بالسلطة." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"الناس يحكمون على ما يرونَهُ بأعيُنِهم، وليس على ما يُدرِكُونه، فكُلنا نستطيع الرؤية لكن قلة قليلة منّا تستطيع أن تُدرك واقع الحال الذي أنت عليه، وهي فئة غير قادرة على مواجهة الكثرة التي تحميها مهابة الأمير" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"For a worldly man and compulsive womanizer, used to being at the frenetic heart of public life," -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Surge de esto una duda: si es mejor ser amado que temido o viceversa. La respuesta es que convendría ser lo uno y lo otro; pero como es difícil combinar ambas cosas, es mucho más seguro ser temido que amado cuando se haya de prescindir de una de las dos. Porque de los hombres, en general, se puede decir esto: que son ingratos, volubles, hipócritas, falsos, temerosos del peligro y ávidos de ganancias; y mientras les favoreces, son todo tuyos, te ofrecen su sangre, sus bienes, la vida e incluso los hijos mientras no los necesitas; pero, cuando llega el momento, te dan la espalda." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"because the haves of this world cannot quietly inherit what is coming to them; lest they be treated now as they once treated others, they must keep an eye on the have-nots. To keep a step ahead of the have-nots the haves must think and behave like have-nots. They certainly cannot afford justice to the have-nots, nor can they waste time or money on sympathy." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"All the literary techniques of the humanist are brought to bear, but one of the chief casualties is intended to be humanism itself." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"THE PRINCE – NICCOLO MACHIAVELLCHAPTER VI: Of New Princedoms Which a Prince Acquires With His Own Arms and by MeritNote:'For since men for the most part follow in the footsteps an imitate the actions of the others, and yet are unable to adhere exactly to those paths which others have taken, or attain to the virtues of those whom they would resemble, the wise man should always follow the roads that have been trodden by the great, and imitate those have most excelled, so that if he cannot reach the perfection, he may at least acquire something of its savour." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Ecclesiastical princes alone possess states, and do not defend them; subjects, and do not govern them. And though their states are not defended they are not taken away from them; and their subjects, being without government, do not worry about it and neither can hope to overthrow it in favour of another. So these principalities alone are secure and happy." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"فالقسوة الحكيمة هي التي يستعملها الرجل ليحصل على مركز وطيد ثم لا يطول أمدها، بل تستبدل سراعًا بأعمال نافعة للرعية، أما القسوة الطائشة فهي التي تبتدئ شيئًا فشيئًا وتزيد على مر الأيام دون تنقص، فالذين يستخدمون القسوة الحكيمة قد يفوزون في إرضاء الله والناس كما كانت عاقبة أجاتوكل، أما الذين يستخدمون القسوة الطائشة فمن المستحيل عليهم أن يحتفظوا بمراكزهم؛" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"It's better to be feared than loved if you cannot be both" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"príncipe cuyo gobierno descanse en soldados mercenarios no estará nunca seguro ni tranquilo, porque están desunidos, porque son ambiciosos, desleales, valientes entre los amigos, pero cobardes cuando se encuentran frente a los enemigos; porque no tienen disciplina, como tienen temor de Dios ni buena fe con los hombres; de modo que no se difiere la ruina sino mientras se difiere la ruptura; y" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"إن الإساءات ينبغي أن تتم مرة واحدة؛ ليكون ألمها مفردًا فتنسى سراعًا، أما الحسنات فينبغي أن تعطى شيئًا فشيئًا ليكون قدرها أعظم والتمتع بها أتم،" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Ofreciéndose David a Saúl para combatir a Goliat, provocador filisteo, Saúl, para darle valor, lo armó con sus armas; pero una vez que se vio cargado con éstas, David las rechazó, diciendo que con ellas no podría sacar partido de sí mismo y que prefería ir al encuentro del enemigo con su honda y su cuchillo. En fin, sucede siempre que las armas ajenas o se caen de los hombros del príncipe, o le pesan, o le oprimen. Carlos" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Todo príncipe prudente ha desechado las tropas auxiliares y refugiado en las propias; y ha preferido perder con las suyas que ganar con las otras" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Нет ничего более расточительного, чем щедрость, ведь, прибегая к ней, ты всё более теряешь эту способность и становишься либо бедным, либо презираемым, либо, при попытке избежать нищеты, алчным и всем ненавистным." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"وأشرت بتأسيس المستعمرات الأجنبية عالمًا أن هذا يقتضي نزع أملاك نفر قليل من أهل الولاية لتعطى للمستعمرين، ولا خوف من ذلك على الفاتح ما دام هذا النفر القليل المسلوب الحق ضعيفًا؛ فإنه لا يستطيع أن يمس الفاتح بأذى، ولا يستطيع كذلك هؤلاء الأقلون أن يثيروا غضب الأكثرين ممن لم تُغتصب أملاكهم لأن من لم يُغلب على أمره في متاعه لا يكون كمن غُلب، ولو أن المظلومين تمكنوا بعد اللُّتَيَّا والتي من تحريك غضب من لم يُظلموا، سهل على الفاتح تسكين ذلك الغضب، ولتلك السياسة نفع آخر وهو أن أكثر أهل الولاية يبقون في خوف مستمر، فهم أبدًا يخشون أن يُصنع بهم ما صُنع بغيرهم من قبل من الظلم والاغتصاب، فيخلدون إلى السكينة ويرضون بما يُمنحون." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"La cuestión es complicada, porque - como ya se ha dicho - los acontecimientos políticos son concebidos por Maquiavelo como productos humanos ínsitos en el estrato inmanente y natural del mundo e independientes del trascendente y sobrenatural, circunstancia que descarta como carente de sentido la posibilidad de que la legitimidad de los sistemas políticos la otorgue Dios. Fuera de esta solución tan querida por el pensamiento político cristiano, la cualidad de legítimo sólo puede provenir del colectivo social afectado, cosa que para el florentino sucede cuando la virtú del príncipe produce los efectos deseados: la estabilidad y la paz social que se manifiesta en la aceptación del sistema de poder. Para ello son decisivas las buenas instituciones políticas y las buenas leyes. Ahora bien, muchas veces el príncipe ha de tomar decisiones impopulares que parecen vicio aunque sean virtud, de ahí que precise controlar su imagen pública y «ser un gran simulador y disimulador» capaz de evitar ser despreciado y odiado24.Aquí se encuentra una de las principales aportaciones de Maquiavelo a la filosofía política moderna, pues esta idea es el núcleo de la teoría de la legitimación indirecta. Desde la perspectiva inmanente aquí adoptada, el problema no es si una dominación es en sí misma legítima o no, sino por qué medios una dominación puede legitimarse y así autoconservarse. La legitimación, pues, no es prima facie una cuestión de racionalidad sustantiva, sino de racionalidad instrumental." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"لأن من لا يرجى خيره لا يخشى شره في معظم الأحوال." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"موقف المغتصِب يبقى في البلاد حرجًا مهما كان عادلًا في أحكامه وقويًّا بجنده وعدده؛ لأن أهل الولاية المغتصَبة يبقون على عدائه ما دام في بلادهم، وكذلك لا يتمكن المغتصِب من اكتساب إخلاص جماعة الخائنين الذين مكنوه من بلادهم؛" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"There cannot be good laws where the state is not well armed, it follows that where they are well armed they have good laws." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"گرفتاری‌های آینده را اگر پیشاپیش دریابند چاره‌کردنشان آسان است. امّا اگر بگذارند تا رخ نمایند، آن‌گاه هیچ دارویی کارگر نخواهد افتاد. زیرا که درد درمان‌ناپذیر شده است. چنان که پزشکان در باب تب-لازم می‌گویند، در آغازِ بیماری درمان آسان است امّا بازشناختنش دشوار؛ و چون چندی گذشت و بیماری شناخته و درمان نشد، بازشناختنِ آن آسان است امّا درمان آن دشوار." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"es que el que ayuda a otro a hacerse poderoso provoca su propia ruina." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"(es defecto común de los hombres no preocuparse por la tempestad durante la bonanza)," -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Las tropas auxiliares, otras de las tropas inútiles de que he hablado, son aquellas que se piden a un príncipe poderoso para que nos socorra y defienda, tal" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Thus, it is well to seem merciful, faithful, humane, religious, and upright, and also to be so; but the mind should remain so balanced that were it needful not to be so, you should be able and know how to change to the contrary." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Ofreciéndose David a Saúl para combatir a Goliat, provocador filisteo, Saúl, para darle valor, lo armó con sus armas; pero una vez que se vio cargado con éstas, David las rechazó, diciendo que con ellas no podría sacar partido de sí mismo y que prefería ir al encuentro del enemigo con su honda y su cuchillo. En fin, sucede siempre que las armas ajenas o se caen de los hombros del príncipe, o le pesan, o le oprimen." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Et esaminando le azioni e vita loro, non si vede che quelli avessino altro dalla fortuna che la occasione;" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Ambition uses against foreign peoples that violence which neither the law nor her king permits her to use against herself." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"He who has relied least on fortune is established the strongest." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Ci sono uomini che sanno tutto, peccato che questo è tutto quello che sanno." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Machiavelli moralizes on the resemblance between Fortune and women, and concludes that it is the bold rather than the cautious man that will win and hold them both." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Nada é tão débil e instável quanto a fama da potência não assente na própria força" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"أرى أنه من الأصوب أن نعتبر الحظ يحكمُ نصف أعمالِنا، ويترك لنا النصف الآخر، وإني أشبه الحظ بالنهر الهائج القوي، سريع التيار، الذي يفيض على السهول، يقتلع الأشجار، ويهدم المباني، وينقل التربة من شاطئ لآخر، يفرُ الناس من أمامه، ويستسلمُ الجميع لهيجانه، ولا يقووا على الوقوف أمامِه، ومع ذلك، فإن الناس يظلون قادرين على مواجهتِهِ والاحتراس منه، فهم يبنون الجسور والسدود حين يكونُ هادئًا، فإذا ما هاج، يجري في قناة أو تقلُ خطورته بشكلٍ عام." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"merciful, faithful, humane, religious, upright," -Niccolo Machiavelli
"in mercenaries dastardy is most dangerous; in auxiliaries, valour." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Friendships acquired by a price and not by greatness and nobility of spirit are purchased but not owned, and at the proper time cannot be spent. Men are less hesitant about injuring someone who makes himself loved than one who makes himself feared, because love is held together by a chain of obligation that, since men are a wretched lot, is broken on every occasion for their own self-interest; but fear is sustained by a dread of punishment that will never abandon you." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Ma, per venire a quelli che per propria virtù e non per fortuna sono diventati principi, dico che li più eccellenti sono Moisè, Ciro, Romulo, Teseo e simili." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Widzę w nim (losie) podobieństwo do rwącej rzeki, która gdy wyleje, zatapia równiny, przewraca drzewa i domy [...], każdy ustępuje przed jej wściekłością, nie mogąc się jej oprzeć. Lecz chociaż taką jest rzeka, nie znaczy, żeby ludzie, gdy spokój powróci, nie mogli zabezpieczyć się groblami i tamami." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Quelli li quali per vie virtuose, simili a costoro, diventono principi, acquistono el principato con difficultà, ma con facilità lo tengano;" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"When neither their property nor their honour is touched the majority of man live content" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"With us there is great justice, because that war is just which is necessary, and arms are hallowed when there is no other hope but in them." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Every one sees what you seem, but few know what you are, and these few dare not oppose themselves to the opinion of the many who have the majesty of the State to back them up." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"The choosing of ministers is a very important matter for a ruler; whether or not they are good depends on whether he is shrewd. The first indications of the intelligence of a ruler are given by the quality of the men around him." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Güçlü bir yabancı bir bölgeye girer girmez oradaki daha güçsüz herkes eskiden kendilerine hükmetmiş olan güçlüye duydukları hasedin etkisiyle hemen ona bağlanırlar öyle ki bu zayıf güçler söz konusu olduğunda yabancının onları kendi yanına çekmek için hiçbir çaba harcaması gerekmez çünkü hep birlikte ve seve seve onun ele geçirdiği devletin bir parçası haline gelirler" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"استثار الغضبُ حمية الأبطال ** فحملوا السلاح وسعوا للنزالجمعت أرض الأجدادِ أيادي الرِجال ** فبلادُنا نابضةٌ، ولن نكفَ عن القتال." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"مردم مرگ پدر را زودتر فراموش می‌کنند تا از دست رفتنِ میراثِ پدری را." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"When brutality is the only option left, it is holy." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Perché le iniurie si debbono fare tutte insieme, acciò che, assaporandosi meno, offendino meno: e' benefizii si debbono fare a poco a poco, acciò che si assaporino meglio." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"so in like manner to understand the People a man should be a Prince, and to have a clear notion of Princes he should belong to the People." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"1492, muerte de Lorenzo el Magnifico; descubrimiento de América y la unidad del imperio español con el fin de los reinos musulmanes en España." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"الحرب والسياسة توأمان، ومن يريد أن يفوز في الأولى لا بد أن يكون فوَّازًا في الثانية،" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"States accustomed to their own laws and freedoms have three ways to maintain control when they are conquered: The first is to eliminate them, the second is to go and settle there, the third is to subject them to taxation and establish a government composed of a small number of individuals who will ensure the friendship of the local people and allow them to live according to their own laws." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Un prince qui n'est pas sage par lui-même ne peut être bien conseillé" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"I enter the ancient courts of rulers who have long since died. There I am warmly welcomed, and I feed on the only food I find nourishing, and was born to savor. I am not ashamed to talk to them, and to ask them to explain their actions. And they, out of kindness, answer me. Four hours go by without my feeling any anxiety. I forget every worry. I am no longer afraid of poverty, or frightened of death. I live entirely through" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"وللرجال ثلاثة عقول مُختلفة، الأول يفهم الأمور دون أن يحتاج لمساعدةٍ من أحد، والثاني يفهمها حين يوضحها له غيره، والثالث لا يفهم الأمور بمفرده، ولا حين يشرحها له أحدهم، والأول أكثر تميُزًا، والثاني ممتاز أيضًا، أما الثالث، فبالتأكيد عديم المنفعة." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Let him act like the clever archerswho, designing to hit the mark which yet appears too far distant, and knowing the limits towhich the strength of their bow attains, takeaim much higher than the mark, not to reachby their strength or arrow to so great a height,but to be able with the aid of so high an aim tohit the mark they wish to reach." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Bunun nedeni şiddetin iyiliğe mi kötülüğe mi kullanıldığıdır. İyiliğe kullanılmış diyorsam (kötülükten iyilik olarak söz edilebilirse eğer) hepsi bir kerede iktidarı sağlama alabilmek için kullanılmış ve sonra daha fazla uzatmadan olabildiğince halkın yararına olabilecek bir biçime dönüştürülenden söz ediyorum. Kötüye kullanmış olanlar başlangıçta zayıf olmalarına karşın, biteceği yerde bir biçimde zamanla artmış olanlardır." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"unutmamak gerekir ki yeni bir düzen getirmeye kalkışmaktan daha zor, başarı olasılığı daha kuşkulu, yönetilmesi daha tehlikeli bir şey yoktur; çünkü eski düzenden çıkarı olan herkes yeni düzeni getirene düşman kesilir, yeni düzenden çıkarı olabilecek kişiler ise ancak ılımlı birer müttefiktir." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Hay tres clases de cerebros: el primero discierne por sí, el segundo entiende lo que los otros disciernen y el tercero no entiende ni discierne lo que los otros disciernen. El primero es excelente, el segundo bueno y el tercero inútil." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"A prince who is not wise himself will never take good advice." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Ma, quando si acquista stati in una provincia disforme di lingua, di costumi e di ordini, qui sono le difficultà; e qui bisogna avere gran fortuna e grande industria a tenerli; et uno de' maggiori remedii e più vivi sarebbe che la persona di chi acquista vi andassi ad abitare." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"a los hombres hay que conquistarlos o eliminarlos, porque si se vengan de las ofensas leves, de las graves no pueden; así que la ofensa que se haga al hombre debe ser tal, que le resulte imposible vengarse." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"«Justa es la guerra para quienes es necesaria, y santas las armas cuando son la única esperanza», cita de Tito Livio IX, 1." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Hence it is that all armed prophets have conquered, and the unarmed ones have been destroyed." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Así pues, la concepción institucional del poder, la representación, la libertad y el imperio de la ley son los elementos constitutivos de su ideal de vivere civile." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"If a prince holds on to his state by means of mercenary armies, he will never be stable or secure." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"If an injury has to be done to a man it should be so severe that his vengeance need not be feared.He who wishes to be obeyed must know how to command.One who deceives will always find those who allow themselves to be deceived.Politics have no relation to morals" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Digo, pues, que las tropas con que un príncipe defiende sus Estados son propias, mercenarias, auxiliares o mixtas. Las mercenarias y auxiliares son inútiles y peligrosas; y" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Even harder to solve is the translation of ‘virtù', together with a number of other words that cluster round it. It would be so easy to write the English cognate ‘virtue', meaning the opposite of vice, but this is not what Machiavelli was talking about. He was not interested in the polarity ‘good'/‘evil', but in winning and losing, strength and weakness, success and failure. For Machiavelli ‘virtù' was any quality of character that enabled you to take political power or to hold on to it; in short, a winning trait. It could be courage in battle, or strength of personality, or political cunning, or it might even be the kind of ruthless cruelty that lets your subjects know you mean business. But one can hardly write ‘cunning' or ‘cruelty' for ‘virtù', even if one knows that in this context that is what the text means; because then you would lose the sense that although Machiavelli is not talking about the moral virtues he nevertheless wants to give a positive connotation to the particular qualities he is talking about: this cruelty is aimed at solving problems, retaining power, keeping a state strong, hence, in this context it is a ‘virtù'. Ugly though it may sound, then, I have sometimes been obliged to translate ‘virtù' as ‘positive qualities' or ‘strength of character', except of course on those occasions - because there are some - when Machiavelli does mean ‘virtues' in the moral sense: in which case he's usually talking about the importance of faking them even if you may not have them" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"For if we consider things impartially we shall find some things in appearance are virtues, and yet, if pursued, would bring certain destruction; and others, on the contract, that are seemingly bad, which, if followed by a prince, procure his peace and security." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"أخلاق الشعوب قليلة الثبات على حال واحدة، وإذا أمكن إغراء طائفة وإقناعها برأي جديد فإنه يكاد يستحيل ضمان ثباتها عليه،" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"it is far better to earn the confidence of the people than to rely on fortresses" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Mankind do not truly believe in anything new until they have had actual experience of it." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Dobre rady powinny wynikać z mądrości księcia, a nie mądrość księcia z dobrych rad" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Pentru ca viața-i scurtă,cu multă suferință,și fără caznă trai nu-i cu putințăconduși de pofte și dorinținoi ne petrecem și ne roadem anii;cin` la plăceri renunță doar strădaniigăsește, chin și suferinți;de-a lumii amăgireacela n-are știre,nici de-ntâmplări-i sucite, de ororice-apasă greu pe-atâția muritori.(Mătrăguna)" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"In short, with mercenaries your greatest danger is from their inertness and cowardice, with auxiliaries from their valour. Wise Princes, therefore, have always eschewed these arms, and trusted rather to their own, and have preferred defeat with the latter to victory with the former, counting that as no true victory which is gained by foreign aid." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Venuta la sera, mi ritorno a casa ed entro nel mio scrittoio; e in sull'uscio mi spoglio quella veste cotidiana, piena di fango e di loto, e mi metto panni reali e curiali; e rivestito condecentemente, entro nelle antique corti delli antiqui huomini, dove, da loro ricevuto amorevolmente, mi pasco di quel cibo che solum è mio e ch'io nacqui per lui; dove io non mi vergogno parlare con loro e domandarli della ragione delle loro azioni; e quelli per loro humanità mi rispondono; e non sento per quattro hore di tempo alcuna noia, sdimentico ogni affanno, non temo la povertà, non mi sbigottisce la morte: tutto mi transferisco in loro." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"[...] Il n'est point d'autre moyen de se garder de la flatterie que de donner à entendre aux gens qu'ils ne t'offensent pas à te dire le vrai; mais quand chacun peut te dire le vrai, on cesse de te respecter." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"It is in the nature of things that every time you try to avoid one danger you run into another. Good sense consists in being able to assess the dangers and choose the lesser of various evils." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"A wise prince must devise ways by which his citizens are always and in all circumstances dependent on him and on his authority; and then they will always be faithful to him." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Violence must be inflicted once for all, people will then forget what it tastes like and so be less resentful." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"for even whilst you exercise it you lose the power to do so, and so become either poor or despised, or else, in avoiding poverty, rapacious and hated." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Çünkü gerçekten sahiplenebilmek için yakıp yıkmaktan başka bir çare de yoktur. Ve özgürce yaşamaya alışık bir kenti ele geçiren biri eğer o kenti yakıp yıkmazsa, kendisi o kent tarafından yakılıp yıkılmayı bekliyor demektir." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"I have not found among my possessions anything which I've held more dear, nor valued so much, as the knowledge of the actions of great men, acquired by long experience in contemporary affairs, and a continual study of ancient history…" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"The reader should bear in mind that there were two ways of doing battle: using the law and using force. Typically, humans have laws and animals force. But since playing by the law often proves inadequate, it makes sense to resort to force as well. Hence a ruler must be able to exploit both the man and the beast in himself to the full. In ancient times writers used fables to teach their leaders this lesson: they tell how Achilles and many other leaders were sent to the centaur Chiron to be fed and brought up under his discipline. This story of having a teacher who was half-man and half-beast obviously meant that a ruler had to be able to draw on both natures. If he had only one, he wouldn't survive." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"[M]any men have more skill in avoiding errors than in correcting them." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"no he encontrado entre lo poco que poseo nada que me sea más caro o que tanto estime como el conocimiento de las acciones de los hombres," -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Always assume incompetence before looking for conspiracy." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"в действиях всех людей, а в особенности государей, кои никому не подсудны, смотрят на результат. Пусть государь победит и сохранит государство: средства будут всегда сочтены достойными" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Тут виникає спірне питання: що краще - коли тебе люблять чи коли бояться. Відповідь така, що бажане й те, й те, та оскільки важко поєднати у собі обидві ці особливості, то значно надійніше викликати страх, ніж любов, якщо вже доведеться обирати з-поміж них. Адже про людей взагалі можна сказати, що вони прикидаються, тікають від небезпек і жадібні до грошей. Коли ти робиш їм добро, то вони твої назавжди, вони готові покласти за тебе життя, майно й дітей - якщо, як я вже казав, немає в цьому ніякої потреби. Якщо вона з'являється, то їх як не було. І володар, який цілком покладається на обіцянки людей і не шукає собі другої опори, гине, або друзі, яких можна завести за гроші, легко купуються, та на них не можна покладатися, і у потрібний час вони нічого не варті. Людям легше скривдити того, хто чинить їм добро, ніж того, хто навіює їм страх, бо любов підтримується путами вдячності, котрі люди, через свої погані схильності, розривають за першого ж вигідного для них випадку. Страх полягає у побоюванні отримати покарання, і це побоювання ніколи тебе не полишить." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"In a letter to Francesco Vettori of 18 March 1513, Niccolò gives us a vivid summary of his youth: ‘I was born in poverty, and at an early age learned how to script rather than to thrive.' 1" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"إن كُل من يتسببُ في أن يقوى غيريه، يُهلِك نفسه، لأنه إنما يفعل ذلك إما بالحيلة، أو بالقوة، وهاتان الصِفتان موضع شكٍ لممن يصل إلى السلطة." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Que los primeros ataques contra Maquiavelo provengan de los ideólogos de la ortodoxia cristiana no es un dato baladí. Como tampoco lo es el que procedan de dos sectores cristianos por lo demás tan enfrentados entre sí. La razón que los une es profunda: el rechazo a las concepciones maquiavelianas de la historia y del agente político; la negación, pues, de los dos pilares conceptuales que sustentan el pensamiento de Maquiavelo. Ciertamente se trata de dos nociones no-cristianas que permiten acciones anticristianas desde el punto de vista moral; sin embargo, no son conceptos ni inmorales ni antirreligiosos. Téngase en cuenta que aunque Maquiavelo manifiesta desprecio por el gobierno temporal del Papa con sus pretensiones de superioridad moral y sus políticas claramente corruptasdesde los propios cánones cristianos, sin embargo, ni desprecia el fenómeno religioso ni su teoría carece de noción de bien.Aprecia la religión en tanto que instrumento político para la cohesión social, pero sin otorgarle ningún valor hegemónico en lo normativo, dado que esto es -a su juicio - una prerrogativa de esa capacidad humana que es el saber político. El ser humano ducho en política constituye la única fuente de normas; es él quien determina en cada fase histórica cómo es mejor actuar y qué medios hay que emplear si se pretende satisfacer las necesidades humanas fundamentales, objetivo éste que, como recoge la historia, se alcanza en gran medida en contextos políticos que permiten el vivere civile. En esto consiste el bien. Por tanto, no son de extrañar las críticas vertidas desde un ideario como el cristiano que remite el bien al más allá supramundano, pues la de Maquiavelo es una concepción enteramente mundana." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"I also believe that the one who adapts his policy to the times prospers, and likewise that the one whose policy clashes with the demands of times does not." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"إنما كتب ماكيافيلي ما كتب ليدل الناس على مواطن الغدر ليفطنوا إلى صنوف الخداع فيما يدبر ضدهم وما يدس لهم من الدسائس، ولو أن الناس قدَّروا قوله حق قدره وأعاروا آراءه أفئدة واعية ما تمكن أحد من إيذائهم، فمن الغبن — والأمر ما ذكرت — أن يعود اللائمون باللائمة على ماكيافيلي؛ لأن كلامه ذهب صرخة في واد، ونفخة في رماد، والعاقل لا يرى عتبًا على قائل إذا ذهب قوله في الرياح." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"It is better to be feared than loved, if you cannot be both" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Thus King Louis lost Lombardy by not having followed any of the conditions observed by those who have taken possession of countries and wished to retain them. Nor" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"إن الناس تحب وتبغض بإرادتهم، ولكنهم يهابون الأمير بإرادته، والأمير الحازم ينبغي له أن يُعَوِّل على ما في قدرته لا على ما في قدرة الغير، وكل ما يجب عليه هو أن يتقي بغض الناس له." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"When they're weighing up what someone has achieved - and this is particularly true with rulers, who can't be held to account - people look at the end result. So if a leader does what it takes to win power and keep it, his methods will always be reckoned honourable and widely praised. The crowd is won over by appearances and final results. And the world is all crowd: the dissenting few find no space so long as the majority have any grounds at all for their opinions." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"кто делает другого могущественным, тот погибает, ведь наделять могуществом можно с помощью либо силы, либо умения плести интриги, а оба этих качества вызывают подозрение у ставших могущественными людей." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"he who becomes master of a city accustomed to freedom and does not destroy it, may expect to be destroyed by it," -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Capítulo XX. Se as fortalezas e muitas outras coisas que a cada dia são feitas pelos príncipes são úteis ou não" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"ومن يُصبح حاكِمًا لمدينة حُرة ولا يُدمِرُها، فليتوقع أن تقضي هي عليه، لأنها ستجِدُ دائمًا الدافع للتمرد باسم الحُرية، وباسم أحوالِها القديمة." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Książęta, którzy stracili władzę książęcą piastowaną przez nich od wielu lat, niech o to losu nie obwiniają, lecz własną niezdarność, albowiem nie pomyśleli w czasach spokojnych, że mogą one zmienić się (powszechna to wada ludzi nie pamiętać o burzy, gdy morze spokojne)" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"De aquí que sus concepciones de la historia y de la «naturaleza humana» constituyan los pilares teóricos del pensamiento maquiaveliano." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Książęta, szczególnie zaś nowi, znajdowali więcej wierności i więcej mieli pożytku z tych ludzi, których na początku swych rządów uważali za podejrzanych" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"else," -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Existem duas formas de se combater: uma, pelas leis; outra, pela força. A primeira é própria do homem; a segunda, dos animais." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Zło, poznane z daleka leczy się szybko, lecz gdy wskutek tego, że nie zostało rozpoznane, pozwala się na jego wzrost, tak że każdy je rozpozna, nie ma już lekarstwa" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"How we live is so difference than how we ought to live that he who studies what ought to be done rather than what is done will learn the way to his downfall rather than to his preservation. The Prince." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Politics have no relation to morals." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"زخم را یک‌باره می‌باید زد تا دردِ آن اندک-اندک از یاد برود، و نیکی را خرده-خرده می‌باید کرد تا مزۀ آن دیرتر از یاد برود." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"De modo geral, os homens julgam mais com os olhos do que com o tato: todos podem ver, mas poucos são capazes de sentir. Todos veem nossa aparência, poucos sentem o que realmente somos [...]" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"مردم همواره با تو ناراست‌اند، مگر آن‌که ناگزیر از راستی باشند." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"...for monarchy easily becomes tyranny, aristocracy easily becomes oligarchy, and democracy easily converts to anarchy. Thus anyone organizing a government according to one of the good forms does so for but a short time, because no precaution will prevent it from slipping into its opposite, so closely are the virtues and vices of the two related." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"el que engaña con arte halla siempre gente que se deje engañar." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"La razón y la experiencia nos enseñan que el hombre que se halla armado no obedece con gusto al que está desarmado," -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Así pasa en las cosas del Estado: los males que nacen en él, cuando se los descubre a tiempo, lo que sólo es dado al hombre sagaz, se los cura pronto; pero ya no tienen remedio cuando, por no haberlos advertido, se los deja crecer hasta el punto de que todo el mundo los ve." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Se concluye de esto que todo el que no quiera vencer no tiene más que servirse de esas tropas, muchísimo más peligrosas que las mercenarias, porque están perfectamente unidas y obedecen ciegamente a sus jefes, con lo cual la ruina es inmediata; mientras que las mercenarias, para someter al príncipe, una vez que han triunfado, necesitan esperar tiempo y ocasión, pues no constituyen un cuerpo unido y, por añadidura, están a sueldo del príncipe. En" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Any man who tries to be good all the time is bound to come to ruin by the great number who are not good." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"...the armor of others is too wide, or too strait for us; it falls off us, or it weighs is down." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Y los hombres tienen menos cuidado en ofender a uno que se haga amar que a uno que se haga temer;" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"it often enables men to rise from a private station to that rank." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Başkasının güçlenmesinin nedeni olan kişi kendi yıkımına yol açar çünkü o güç ya becerinin ya zor kullanmanın sonucudur ve güçlü hale gelmiş kişi için bu iki nitelik de kuşkuludur" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Starożytni pisarze cichaczem zalecają książętom ten środek (walka prawem i walka siłą), podając, że Achillesa i wielu innych książąt starożytnych oddano na wychowanie Chironowi, centaurowi, który miał ich w dyscyplinie trzymać. To, że ich nauczycielem była istota na pół zwierzęca, a na pół ludzka, nic innego nie znaczy, jak tylko że książę musi się posługiwać i jedną i drugą naturę i że jedna bez drugiej nie jest siła." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"El mal no es un problema teológico consecuencia de una hipotética falta originaria; es un problema políticoconsecuencia del protagonismo de la ambición como guía de las acciones de las criaturas humanas. De ahí que el objetivo no sea redimirse de él en el otro mundo, sino en éste a través de su represión mediante las buenas armas y su canalización mediante las buenas leyes. De forma paralela, no hay otra fuente del bien que las instituciones político-estatales, aunque no es legítima cualquier organización estatal por el hecho de serlo, sino sólo aquéllas en las que la virtú impera sobre la Fortuna." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"He who has once begun to live by robbery will always find pretexts for seizing what belongs to others." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"أما تدريب العقل فلا يكون إلا بدرس تاريخ العظماء والإمعان في أسباب عظمتهم، والنظر في وصف الوقائع والبحث عن أسباب النصر وأسباب الخذلان؛ لاتباع الأولى واتقاء الثانية، وفوق هذا كله اقتفاء أثر رجل عظيم اشتهر في قديم الزمان كما فعل كثير من المشاهير الذين اتخذوا الأعمال العظيمة قدوة لهم، ينسجون على منوالها ويسيرون في دربها، فقد زعموا أن «الإسكندر» قلد «آخيل» وأن «قيصر» قلد الإسكندر وأن «سيبيو» قلد «سيرس»، ومن يقرأ تاريخ سيرس الذي كتبه «زينوفون» يرَ كيف أن سيبيو قلده في العفة ولين الجانب وحب الإنسانية والكرام." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Every one sees what you seem, but few know what you are ..." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Gubi się ten, kto czyni drugiego potężnym, gdyż tworzy się tę potęgę zręcznością lub siłą, a jedno i drugie budzi nieufność u tego, który stał się potężnym" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"In exemplis ci sono li Spartani e li Romani. Li Spartani tennono Atene e Tebe creandovi uno stato di pochi; tamen le riperderono. Romani, per tenere Capua Cartagine e Numanzia, le disfeciono, e non le perderono" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"A wise prince ought to observe some such rules, and never in peaceful times stand idle, but increase his resources with industry in such a way that they may be available to him in adversity, so that if fortune chances it may find him prepared to resist her blows." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Разумеется, желание приобретать — вещь вполне обычная и естественная, и когда люди стремятся к этому в меру своих сил, их будут хвалить, а не осуждать, но когда они не могут и всё же добиваются приобретений любой ценой, то в этом заключается ошибка, достойная порицания." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Those who wish to" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"there is nothing more difficult to take in hand, more perilous to conduct, or more uncertain in its success, than to take the lead in the introduction of a new order of things," -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Aşağı ve mütevazı konumdaki birisin, prenslerin yönetimlerini tartışmaya ve kurallarını belirlemeye cüret etmesinin kendini beğenmişlik olarak addedilmesini istemem; çünkü nasıl manzara resmi yapanlar, dağların ve yüksek yerlerin yapısını gözlemlemek için ovada alçak bir konumda duruyor ve alçak yerlerin yapısını gözlemlemek için dağların tepesine çıkıyorlarsa, aynı şekilde, halkların yapısını iyi anlamak için prens olmak ve prenslerin yapısını iyi tanımak için de halktan birisi olmak gerekir." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Por ello, todo príncipe prudente ha desechado estas tropas y se ha refugiado en las propias, y ha preferido perder con las suyas a vencer con las otras, considerando que no es victoria verdadera la que se obtiene con armas ajenas. No" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"rth." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Machiavelli was in constant trouble for failing to keep the politicians properly informed of what he was up to. 16 One cannot help but feel his behavior suggests a professional civil servant's contempt for the amateurs from whom he was obliged to take his instructions, an attitude that could easily have led him to long for more authoritarian government." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Dove c'è una grande volontà non possono esserci grandi difficoltà." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Licenció el antiguo ejército y creó uno nuevo; dejó las amistades viejas y se hizo de otras; y así, rodeado por soldados y amigos adictos, pudo construir sobre tales cimientos cuanto edificio quiso; y lo que tanto le había costado adquirir, poco le costó conservar." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Y es preciso saber que un príncipe, y máxime un príncipe nuevo, no puede observar todo aquello por lo que los hombres son considerados buenos, dado que, para conservar el Estado, a menudo necesita obrar contra la lealtad, contra la caridad, contra la humanidad, contra la religión. Por eso necesita tener un ánimo dispuesto a moverse según se lo exijan los vientos de la fortuna y las variaciones de las cosas y, como he dicho antes, no alejarse del bien, si puede, pero saber entrar en el mal si es necesario. (...) Trate, pues, el príncipe de ganar y conservar el Estado y los medios siempre serán juzgados honorables y alabados por todos, porque el vulgo se deja conquistar por la apariencia y por el resultado final de las cosas, y en el mundo no hay más que vulgo''." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Alexander never did what he said, Cesare never said what he did.Italian Proverb.Therefore it is unnecessary for a prince to have all the good qualities I have enumerated, but it is very necessary to appear to have them. And I shall dare to say this also, that to have them and always to observe them is injurious, and that to appear to have them is useful; to appear merciful, faithful, humane, religious, upright, and to be so, but with a mind so framed that should you require not to be so, you may be able and know how to change to the opposite.And you have to understand this, that a prince, especially a new one, cannot observe all those things for which men are esteemed, being often forced, in order to maintain the state, to act contrary to fidelity, friendship, humanity, and religion. Therefore it is necessary for him to have a mind ready to turn itself accordingly asthe winds and variations of fortune force it, yet, as I have said above, not to diverge from the good if he can avoid doing so, but, if compelled, then to know how to set about it." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"إضافة إلى الدول التي تنمو سريعًا، لن تستطيع أن تثبت جذورها وتتعمق، وتتدمر بسبب أول عاصفة تهبُ عليها." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Everything has contributed to your greatness. You must do the rest." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"إن الرجال يحكمون عادة بالنظر لا بالخبرة وكل الناس ترى فيك مظاهرك وقليلون من يلمسون حقيقتك...فليعش الأمير وليحافظ على عرشه دون النظر في الوسائل، فإنها تبقى على الدوام معتبرة شريفة يمدحها الكل، لأن العامة مأخوذون بالظواهر وبنتائج الأشياء أما القليلون من الخاصة فلا يظهرون إلا عندما يضل العامة." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Não se pode definir como virtude a matança dos próprios concidadãos, a traição aos amigos e a demonstração de falta de lealdade, de piedade, de consciência e de ideal moral: Essas práticas podem conquistar o poder ao príncipe, nunca a glória." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"E chi crede che ne' personaggi grandi e' benefizii nuovi faccino dimenticare le iniurie vecchie, s'inganna. Errò, adunque, el duca in questa elezione; e fu cagione dell'ultima ruina sua." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Государство, управляемое монархом через его слуг, даёт правителю больше власти, ибо в такой стране верховным владыкой признают только его, а прочим должностным лицам подчиняются, как государевым чиновникам, к которым никто не питает особенной любви." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Denn die Menschen sind so einfältig und so gewöhnt, den herrschenden Verhältnissen nachzugeben, dass der, welcher betrügen will, immer Leute findet, welche sich betrügen lassen." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"چون مردم از شهریاری که چشم آزار دیدن از وی دارند نیکی ببینند، بیشتر شکرگزارِ نعمتش خواهند شد و به و سرسپرده‌تر از شهریاری خواهند بود که می‌توانست به یاریِ ایشان به پادشاهی رسد." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"سه گونه مغز در کار است: یکی آن‌که به خود درمی‌یابد؛ دیگر آن‌که آنچه را که دیگران دریافته‌اند درمی‌یابد؛ سوم آن‌که نه به خود درمی‌یابد نه به دیگران. نخستین، عالی‌ست و دومین خوب و سومین بیهوده." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"wish to acquire is in truth very natural and common, and men always do so when they can, and for this they will be praised not blamed; but when they cannot do so, yet wish to do so by any means, then there is folly and blame." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"al que no le importa morir no le asusta quitar la vida a otro." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"an able statesman out of work, like a huge whale, will endeavour to overturn the ship unless he has an empty cask to play with." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"not restricting themselves to dealing with present threats but using every means at their disposal to foresee and forestall future problems as well. Seen in advance, trouble is easily dealt with; wait until it's on top of you and your reaction will come too late, the malaise is already irreversible." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"لذلك نرى سائر الأنبياء الذين أرسلوا، وأرشدتهم العناية إلى الاستعانة بالحرب والقوة فازوا في تبليغ رسالتهم، وأن سواهم ممن اكتفوا بالوسائل السلمية قد فشلوا؛ وهذا؛ لأن أخلاق الشعوب قليلة الثبات على حال واحدة، وإذا أمكن إغراء طائفة وإقناعها برأي جديد فإنه يكاد يستحيل ضمان ثباتها عليه، فمن الضروري — والحال هذه — أن يستعد النبي للطوارئ، فإن آمن القوم واعتقدوا باللين والمحاسنة فحبًّا وكرامة، وإلا فهو يرغمهم على الاعتقاد والإيمان بحد السيف ورأس الرمح، ولم يكن «موسى» و«قورش» و«طيصص» و«روميلس»؛ ليتمكنوا من تثبيت دعائم النظامات التي أسسوها أمدًا طويلًا لو كانوا عزلًا من السلاح، كما حدث في عهدنا «لجيرولامو سافونارولا» الذي فشل في عمله، وعجز عن تشييد أركان مذهبه عندما بدأ الغوغاء ينفضُّون من حوله؛ وذلك؛ لأنه لم يكن له من الوسائل ما يستطيع به استبقاء من لا يزالون يعتقدون فيه، وإرغام الجاحدين على الإيمان به؛ لأجل هذا أقول: إن أمثال هؤلاء الرجال يجدون صعوبات عظيمة جدًّا في الوصول إلى غايتهم، وينبغي لهم أن يتغلبوا على كل ما يعترضهم أثناء الطريق بكفاءتهم وقدرتهم، فإذا استطاعوا المقاومة وتغلبوا على تلك العقبات، وبدأ الناس يقدرونهم قدرهم ويبجلونهم، وإذا استطاعوا أيضًا أن يخفتوا أصوات حاسديهم، فإنهم يعيشون أقوياء مؤيدين محترمين سعداء." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Dios no quiere hacerlo todo, para no privarnos de nuestro libre albedrío ni quitarnos una parte de la obra que en nuestro bien redundará." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Pero un príncipe sabio evitará siempre valerse de unas y de otras y recurrirá a sus propias armas, prefiriendo perder con ellas a ganar con las ajenas." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"And I'm sure we'd all agree that it would be an excellent thing if a ruler were to have all the good qualities mentioned above and none of the bad; but since it's in the nature of life that you can't have or practice all those qualities all the time, a ruler must take care to avoid the disgrace that goes with the king of failings that could lose him his position. As for failings that wouldn't lead to his losing power, he should avoid them if he can; but if he can't, he needn't worry too much. In the same way, he mustn't be concerned about the bad reputation that comes with those negative qualities that are almost essential if he is to hold power. If you think about it, there'll always be something that looks morally right but would actually lead a ruler to disaster, and something else that looks wrong but will bring security and success." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"For a long time I have not said what I believed, nor do I ever believe what I say. And if sometimes I do happen to tell the truth, I hide it among so many lies that it is hard to find." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"I say at once there are fewer difficulties in holding hereditary states," -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Dificultad que estriba en que los hombres cambian con gusto de señor, creyendo mejorar; y esta creencia los impulsa a tomar las armas contra él; en lo cual se engañan, pues luego la experiencia les enseña que han empeorado." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"هر که بخواهد در همه حال پرهیزگار باشد، در میان این‌همه ناپرهیزگاری سرنوشتی جز ناکامی نخواهد داشت." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"لا توجد خلة مهلكة لذاتها أشد من الكرم؛ لأنك بممارستها تفقد القدرة على ممارستها، فإما تصير فقيرًا مرذَّلًا وإما تفر من الفقر إلى الجشع والاغتصاب وتصير مذمومًا مكروهًا، والكرم هو الذي يقودك إلى أحد هذين الخطرين، انتساب الإنسان للبخل أقرب إلى الحكمة؛ لأنه يجلب العار ولا يجلب البغضاء، وهو أفضل من الاتصاف بالجشع الجالب للدمار والبغضاء جميعًا." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"For once problems are recognized ahead of time, they can be easily cured; but if you wait for them to present themselves, the medicine will be too late, for the disease will have become incurable." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"becomes" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Sucede siempre que las armas ajenas o se caen de los hombros del príncipe, o le pesan, o le oprimen." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Przezorny książę powinien obmyślić sposób, aby obywatele zawsze i w każdej okoliczności odczuwali potrzebę jego rządu, wtedy stałe będą mu wierni" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"best possible fortress is—not to be hated by the people" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"take" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"De aquí dimana, como he dicho, que dos que actúen de forma distinta consigan el mismo efecto, y que en el caso de otros dos que actúen de la misma manera, uno alcance su fin y el otro no. De ello también depende la diferencia del resultado, porque si uno se gobierna con precaución y paciencia y los tiempos y las cosas giran88 de manera que su forma de proceder sea buena, entonces va progresando, pero si los tiempos y las cosas cambian, se arruina porque no cambia su modo de proceder. No cabe encontrar hombre tan prudente que se sepa adaptar a esto, bien porque no puede desviarse de aquello a lo que la naturaleza le inclina, bien porque, al haber prosperado siguiendo siempre un camino, no se puede persuadir de la conveniencia de apartarse de él. Y así, cuando llega el momento de recurrir al ímpetu, el hombre precavido no sabe hacerlo y se hunde, mientras que si cambiase su naturaleza de acuerdo con los tiempos y las cosas, no cambiaría su fortuna." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Y quien se convierte en señor de una ciudad acostumbrada a vivir libre y no la deshace, que espere a ser deshecho por ella; ya que siempre, en caso de rebelión, se apoyará en el nombre de las libertades y en sus antiguos órdenes; cosas ambas que no se olvidan por mucho tiempo que pase y por muchos beneficios que se reciban." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"«شهریار»ی که ماکیاوللی وصف می‌کند، بالاتر از هر چیز، هنرمندی‌ست آفریننده که به مادّۀ خویش صورت می‌بخشد و اثری هنری می‌آفریند که همانا «شهریاریِ» اوست؛ اثری که همچون آثار بسیاری از هنرمندان کمتر به‌کمال است." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"No one should ever allow himself to fall down in the belief that someone else will lift him to his feet because it will not happen; or if it does happen it will not prove to his advantage." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"وسأضرب لذلك مثل الولايات التي كانت في أول أمرها جزءًا من سلطنة كبرى، فإن أمثال هذه الولايات إذا شعرت بظلم حكامها ودَّت انصرافهم عنها، ولو أدى ذلك إلى تحكم غيرهم فيها، فإذا تولى عليها ملك غير ملكها رحبت به أملًا بأن الخلف يصلح ما أفسده السلف، فيعدل حيث ظلم، ويحسن حيث ساء، وكثيرًا ما تدفع تلك الأمنية بعض الولايات إلى سل السيوف في وجه ملكها القديم، فيثور أهلها ثورة حاسمة قد يتمكن بها الطامعون من الاستيلاء على الولاية الثائرة، وكثيرًا ما تكون أمثال تلك الثورات نتيجة لخديعة دبرها الطامعون، وقد دلت الحوادث أنها لا تصلح حال الولايات؛ لأنها لا تشفي الغلة ولا تبرئ العلة، إنما تكون ثالثة الأثافي فتزيد الطين بلة." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Quod nihil sit tam infirmum aut instaible quam fama potentiae non sua vi nixa.''''Hiçbir şey; kendi gücüne dayanmayan bir iktidarın ünü kadar zayıf ve değişken değildir." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Perché li uomini offendono o per paura o per odio." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Debéis, pues, saber que hay dos formas de combatir: una con las leyes, otra con la fuerza. La primera es propia del hombre, la segunda de las bestias. Pero como muchas veces no basta la primera, conviene recurrir a la segunda." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Por tanto, concluyo que al cambiar la fortuna según los tiempos y al mantenerse obstinados los hombres en sus modos de actuar, prosperan mientras hay concordancia entre ambos y fracasan cuando no la hay. Yo sostengo firmemente esto: que es mejor ser impetuoso que precavido, porque la fortuna es mujer y es necesario, si se la quiere someter, golpearla y zurrarla. Y se deja vencer antes por éstos que por quienes proceden fríamente. Por eso siempre es, como mujer, amiga de los jóvenes, porque son menos precavidos, más feroces y la dominan con más audacia89." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Everyone sees what you appear to be; few experience what you really are." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Ne zaman bir sakıncadan kaçmaya çalışsak bir başkasına düşeriz; ama sağduyu, sakıncaların niteliklerini tanımayı ve en az kötüyü iyi olarak seçmeyi bilmek demektir." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"لا يوجد ما يُزعزع البشر، أكثر من ولاياتٍ تدعمُها الشهرة، ولا تدعمُها قواتُها الوطنية." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Llego, pues, a la conclusión de que un príncipe, cuando es apreciado por el pueblo, debe cuidarse muy poco de las conspiraciones; pero que debe temer todo y a todos cuando lo tienen por enemigo y es aborrecido por él. Los Estados bien organizados y los príncipes sabios siempre han procurado no exasperar a los nobles y, a la vez, tener satisfecho y contento al pueblo. Es este uno de los puntos a que más debe atender un príncipe. (p. 33)Sólo quien sea capaz de cortar, como suele decirse, un cabello en el aire, podrá hallar alguna diferencia entre 'excusa' y 'justificación'. (p. 50)Sucede lo que los médicos dicen del tísico: que al principio su mal es difícil de conocer, pero fácil de curar, mientras que, con el transcurso del tiempo, al no haber sido conocido ni atajado, se vuelve fácil de conocer, pero difícil de curar. (p. 4)Como quiera que haya sido, lo cierto es que nadie probablemente ha sido, tanto como Maquiavelo, signo de contradicción. Nadie ha tenido tan varia y tempestuosa fortuna, como suelen decir los italianos; y vale recordar algunas por lo menos de sus más sonadas peripecias. (p. 11)Maquiavelo puede pasar casi como un santo. Que una u otra vez sacrificó en los altares de Afrodita (de la Pandemia siempre, porque fue varón a carta cabal), parece ser lo más probable pero fueron pasiones o pasioncillas que no alteraron la paz de su hogar, ni sobrepusieron en modo alguno (la carta a Vettori lo está diciendo) a su labor intelectual. (p. 25)… y si no perseveró más en el género dramático -un entretenimiento para él, en fin de cuentas- fue por la simple razón de que lo que ante todo le absorbía era el homo politicus, o como él decía, el ragionar dello stato, y en esto hubo de consumirse lo mejor de su energía espiritual. (p. 11)En la concepción de Maquiavelo, el Príncipe es el Estado… En cuanto al pueblo, es algo que no ha podido definirse jamás. Como entidad política, es una entidad puramente abstracta. No se sabe exactamente ni dónde comienza ni dónde acaba. El adjetivo de soberano aplicado al pueblo es una farsa trágica… Al pueblo no le queda ni un monosílabo para afirmar y obedecer. (p. 15)En los Discursos sobre Tito Livio abundan declaraciones semejantes. 'Hay que partir del presupuesto de que los hombres son todos perversos (tutti gli uomini rei), y que siempre que se les presente ocasión, harán uso de la malignidad de su ánimo… Los hombres no obran jamás el bien, a no ser por necesidad'. (p. 32)La libertad, por tanto, es para Maquiavelo el supremo bien a cuya consecución debe ordenarse la comunidad política, y por esta consideración censura severamente a Julio César, por haber sido el exterminador de las libertades públicas y, en suma, de la República romana. (p. 28)Ha de notarse, pues, que a los hombres hay que conquistarlos o eliminarlos, porque si se vengan de las ofensas leves, de las graves no pueden; así que la ofensa que se haga al hombre debe ser tal, que le resulte imposible vengarse. (p. 3)… no sin haberle colgado previamente una inscripción según la cual Maquiavelo habría sido un hombre astuto y pérfido, coadjutor de los demonios e incomparable artífice de maquinaciones diabólicas: 'Homo vafer ac subdolus, diabolicarum cogitationum faber optimus, cacodaemonis auxiliator'. (p. 12)Quien confía en el pueblo edifica sobre arena. (se me olvidó colocar la página)Y Traiano Boccalini, por su parte, decía lo siguiente: 'No vemos por qué ha de condenarse la lectura de Maquiavelo, cuando se recomienda la lectura de la Historia'. (p. 38)… en esto acabó por convertirse, según dice Macaulay, el odiado político florentino. (p. 13)" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Wise individuals should always tread the paths that great people have walked, and they should emulate those who are truly worth emulating." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Whoever becomes prince of a city or state, especially if the foundation of his power is feeble, and does not wish to establish there either a monarchy or a republic, will find the best means for holding that principality to organize the government entirely anew (he being himself a new prince there); that is, he should appoint new governors with new titles, new powers, and new men, and he should make the poor rich, as David did when he became king, 'who heaped riches upon the needy, and dismissed the wealthy empty-handed.' Besides this, he should destroy the old cities and build new ones, and transfer the inhabitants from one place to another; in short, he should leave nothing unchanged in that province, so that there should be neither rank, nor grade, nor honor, nor wealth, that should not be recognized as coming from him." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Mientras que, en los Estados gobernados por un príncipe asistido por siervos, el príncipe goza de mayor autoridad: porque en toda la provincia no se reconoce soberano sine a él, y si se obedece a otro, a quien además no se tienen particular amor, sólo se lo hace per tratarse de un ministro y magistrado del principe." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Muitos tiveram e têm a opinião de que as coisas do mundo são de tal modo governadas, pela fortuna e por Deus, que osHomens com a sua prudência não as podem corrigir, nem têm, aliás, remédio algum para tal; e por isto poder-se-á julgar que não seja de suar muito nas coisas, mas de deixar-se governar pela sorte. (...) No entanto (...) julgo poder ser verdadeiro que a fortuna seja arbitra de metade das nossas acções, mas que ela também nos deixe a nos governar a outra metade, ou quase. E assemelho-a a um destes rios ruinosos que, quando se irritam, alagam as planícies , derrubam as árvores e os edifícios, levam terreno de um lado, põem-no no outro: cada um foge adiante deles, todos cedem ao seu ímpeto, sem se lhes poderem opor em parte alguma. E, se bem que eles sejam assim feitos, daí não resulta que os homens, quando estão temos tranquilos, não possam tomar providências, quer com amparos, quer com açudes, de modo que, crescendo depois, eles se encaminhem por um canal ou o seu ímpeto não seja tão danoso nem tão desenfreado. Acontece de modo semelhante com a fortuna, a qual demonstra a sua potência onde não está ordenada virtude para lhe resistir. E, aí, ela volta os seus ímpetos para onde sabe que não estão feitos os açudes nem os amparos para a deter" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"...โดยทั่วไปแล้ว มนุษย์เราวินิจฉัยกันด้วยตามากกว่าด้วยมือ เพราะการเห็นเป็นของทุก ๆ คน แต่มีไม่กี่คนเท่านั้นที่สามารถจะสัมผัสได้ ทุก ๆ คนเห็นสิ่งซึ่งท่านมีทีท่าว่าเป็น แต่ไม่กี่คนสัมผัสสิ่งที่ท่านเป็นอยู่จริง ๆ" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Por eso hay que concluir que los buenos consejos, vengan de quien vengan, han de nacer de la prudencia del príncipe, y no la prudencia del príncipe de los buenos consejos." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"There are actually three kinds of mind: one kind grasps things unaided, the second sees what another has grasped, the third grasps nothing and sees nothing. The first kind is extremely valuable, the second valuable, the third useless." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"all prudent princes ought to do, who have to regard not only present troubles, but also future ones, for which they must prepare with every energy, because, when foreseen, it is easy to remedy them; but if you wait until they approach, the medicine is no longer in time because the malady has become incurable; for it happens in this, as the physicians say it happens in hectic fever, that in the beginning of the malady it is easy to cure but difficult to detect, but in the course of time, not having been either detected or treated in the beginning, it becomes easy to detect but difficult to cure." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"In the end it will be necessary, if he wants to maintain a name for liberality, to burden the people extraordinarily, to be rigorous with taxes, and to do all those things that can be done to get money. This will begin to make him hated by his subjects, and little esteemed by anyone as he becomes poor; so having offended the many and rewarded the few with this liberality of his, he feels every least hardship and runs into risk at every slight danger. When he recognizes this, and wants to draw back from it, he immediately incurs the infamy of meanness." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Cada uno ve lo que pareces ser; pero pocos comprenden lo que eres realmente" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"This, I believe, arises firstly from causes that have already been discussed at length, namely, that the prince who relies entirely on fortune is lost when it changes." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"For in every city are to be found these two opposed humours having their origin in this, that the people desire not to be domineered over or oppressed by the nobles, while the nobles desire to oppress and domineer over the people." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Bisognava che Ciro trovassi e' Persi malcontenti dello imperio de' Medi, e li Medi molli et effeminati per la lunga pace." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"such a course that his citizens will always in every sort and kind of circumstance have need of the state and of him, and then he will always find them faithful." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"One ought never to permit a disorder to follow to avoid a war, for one does not avoid it and it is only deferred to their disadvantage." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"هر که اسباب قدرتمندی دیگری را فراهم کند اسباب بیچارگی خود را فراهم کرده است." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Any ruler who expects his name to be associated with generosity cannot do so without suffering harm. However, if he is wise, he should not be bothered by his name being associated with stinginess. This is because, over time, by acting frugally, he will realize that his income is sufficient for him, that he can defend himself against his enemies, and that he can implement his plans without causing hardship to his people. He will then realize that his name is more often associated with generosity among the vast majority to whom he has given generously, while he is seen as stingy by the minority to whom he has given nothing." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Ludzie będą zawsze dla ciebie źli, jeżeli konieczność nie zmusi ich do tego, by byli dobrzy" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Since any one who would act up to a perfect standard of goodness in everything, must be ruined among so many who are not good. It is essential, therefore, for a Prince who desires to maintain his position, to have learned how to be other than good, and to use or not to use his goodness as necessity requires." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Concluyo, pues, volvieñdo a lo de ser temido y amado, que, dado que los hombres aman cuando es su voluntad y temen según la voluntad del príncipe, un príncipe sabio debe apoyarse en lo que es suyo y no en lo que es de otros; tan sólo debe ingeniárselas, como he dicho, para evitar el odio." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Liberality exercised in a way that does not bring you the reputation for it, injures you; for if one exercises it honestly and as it should be exercised, it may not become known, and you will not avoid the reproach of its opposite." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Tuzakları tanımak için bir tilki, kurtları korkutmak için de aslan olmak gerekir." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Las ciudades de Alemania son muy libres, tienen poco territorio bajo su dominio y obedecen al emperador cuando quieren, y no temen ni a éste ni a ningún otro poderoso que tengan cerca, porque están fortificadas de tal modo que todos piensan que su asedio ha de ser tedioso y difícil. Porque todas tienen fosos, murallas apropiadas y suficiente artillería; siempre tienen en las despensas públicas bebida, comida y leña para un año. Además de todo esto, para poder mantener alimentada a la plebe sin quebranto para el erario público disponen de un fondo común para poder darles trabajo durante un año en aquellas ocupacionesque son el nervio y la vida de aquella ciudad y de cuyo ejercicio se nutre la plebe. Además, los ejercicios militares tienen buena reputación y en relación con esto tienen muchos reglamentos que los mantienen41" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Pentru ca viața-i scurtă,cu multă suferință,și fără caznă trai nu-i cu putințăconduși de pofte și dorinținoi ne petrecem și ne roadem anii;cin` la plăceri renunță doar strădaniigăsește, chin și suferinți;de-a lumii amăgireacela n-are știre,nici de-ntâmplări-i sucite, de ororice-apasă greu pe-atâția muritori." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Again, the prince who holds a country differing in the above respects ought to make himself the head and defender of his less powerful neighbours, and to weaken the more powerful amongst them, taking care that no foreigner as powerful as himself shall, by any accident, get a footing there; for it will always happen that such a one will be introduced by those who are discontented, either through excess of ambition or through fear, as one has seen already." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"A sensible leader must follow this advice and never relax in peacetime but work hard to make the most of it and turn it to his advantage in the though times ahead. That way, when his luck does turn, he'll be ready." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"ადამიანები, რომლებმაც თავიანთი სამფლობელოები დაკარგეს, ბედისწერას კი არ უნდა ადანაშაულებდნენ, არამედ თავიანთსავე უნიათობას, უუნარობას – მოვლენები წარემართად იმგვარად, რომ განეჭვრიტათ, რა დასჭირდებოდათ უახლოეს მომავალში, როცა ვითარება შეიცვლებოდა... ბედისწერა კანონზომიერების სახისაა. მისი განმსაზღვრელი კანონების შემეცნება შეუძლია ადამიანს. როდესაც იგი შეიმეცნებს ბედისწერას, მის მოსათოკად აშენებს ჯებირებს" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Princes ought to leave affairs of reproach to the management of others, and keep those of grace in their own hands." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Çünkü insanlar hep başkalarının açtığı yollarda yürür ve eylemlerinde taklitle yol alırlar ama ne başkalarının yollarına bütünüyle bağlı kalabilir ne de taklit ettikleri kişilerin gücüne erişebilirler bu yüzden sağduyulu bir kişi her zaman büyük insanların açtığın yollardan gitmeli ve en kusursuz kişileri taklit etmeli böylece gücü onlarınkini erişemezse bile hiç olmazsa bir ölçüde onun havasını yansıtacaktır usta okçular gibi yapmalıdır onlar vurmak istedikleri yer çok uzak göründüğünde yaylarının gücünü bildiklerinden hedef aldıkları yerin çok daha yukarısına nişana akırlar: oklarıyla o kadar yükseğe erişmek için değil böyle Yükseğe nişan almanın yardımıyla hedeflerini vurabilmek için" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"It ought to be remembered that there is nothing more difficult to take in hand, more perilous to conduct, or more uncertain in its success, than to take the lead in the introduction of a new order of things." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"وأنا أظن أن الاندفاع أفضل من الحذر والتبصر؛ لأن الحظ أنثى ولا يغلبها إلا من يقهرها بالقوة، وهي تسلم ذاتها للأقوياء المندفعين، وتبخل بحسنها على الباردين والمترددين، وهي ككل أنثى صديقة الشباب لقلة حذره، ولكونه أقسى وأقوى وأجرأ من الشيوخ. الفصل" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"How one lives is so far distant from how one ought to live, that he who neglects what is done for what ought to be done, sooner effects his ruin than his preservation.' (ch XV)" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"En iyi ve en etkili çarelerden biri, ele geçiren kişinin gidip orada yaşaması olacaktır. Bu, ele geçirilen yeri daha güvenli ve daha sürekli kılar, Tıpkı Türk'ün yunanistan'da yaptığı gibi: O devleti elinde tutmak için aldığı öteki bütün önlemlere rağmen, eğer gidip orada oturmasaydı bu devleti elinde tutması mümkün olmazdı. çünkü orada olursan sorunları doğduğu anda görür hemen önlemini alabilirsin orada olmazsan sorunlardan ancak ciddi bir hal aldıklarında ve artık herhangi bir çare kalmadığında haberin olur. üstelik görevlilerin bölgeyi soyamaz prense doğrudan başvurabilme uyrukları hoşnut eder böylece iyi olmak isteyenlerin prensi sevmek için başka türlü olmak isteyenlerin ise ondan korkmak için daha çok gerekçeleri olur." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Ka mjaft virtyte që të çojnë drejtë greminës dhe vese që të sjellin mirëqënie dhe siguri." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"It is unreasonable to expect that an armed man should obey one who is unarmed, or that an unarmed man should remain safe and secure when his servants are armed." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Quiero dejar mejor demostrada la ineficacia de estos ejércitos. Los capitanes mercenarios o son hombres de mérito o no lo son; no se puede confiar en ellos si lo son porque aspirarán siempre a forjar su propia grandeza, ya tratando de someter al príncipe su señor, ya tratando de oprimir a otros al margen de los designios del príncipe; y mucho menos si no lo son, pues con toda seguridad llevarán al príncipe a la ruina Y a quien objetara que esto podría hacerlo cualquiera, mercenario o no, replicaría con lo siguiente: que un principado o una república deben tener sus milicias propias; que, en un principado. el príncipe debe dirigir las milicias en persona y hacer el oficio de capitán; y en las repúblicas, un ciudadano; y si el ciudadano nombrado no es apto, se lo debe cambiar; y si es capaz para el puesto, sujetarlo por medio de leyes. La experiencia enseña que sólo los príncipes y repúblicas armadas pueden hacer grandes progresos, y que las armas mercenarias sólo acarrean daños. Y es mas difícil que un ciudadano someta a una república que está armada con armas propias que una armada con armas extranjeras." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"For being present in person, disorders are discovered in the bud and prevented, but being at a distance in some remote part, they come only by hearsay, and that when they are got to a head, are commonly incurable" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"İnsanların gönlünü hoş tutmalı ya da onları yok etmelidir çünkü insanlar uğradıkları küçük zararların öcünü alırlar büyük zararların öcünü alamazlar bu yüzden insana verilecek zarar intikam korkusu yaratmayacak biçimde olmalıdır" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"The actions of a new prince are more narrowly observed than those of an hereditary one." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"El príncipe prudente debe preferir rodearse de hombres de buen juicio a los que dará la libertad de decirle la verdad" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"مردم را یا باید نواخت یا فروکوفت." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"The people are more honest in their intentions than the nobles are, because the latter want to oppress the people whereas the people want only not to be oppressed." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Es esa perspectiva realista la que le obliga a concluir que un príncipe no debe actuar de forma invariable, siempre guiado por unos principios morales inamovibles e idénticos para cualquier situación, más bien debe tener como único principio conseguir el beneficio de su Estado como un todo mediante la eliminación de la corrupción del sistema, aunque para ello tenga que usar «hipócritamente» la religión o conculcar sus preceptos cuando lo exija la situación." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Let him act like the clever archers who, designing to hit the mark which yet appears too far distant, and knowing the limits to which the strength of their bow attains, take aim much higher than the mark, not to reach by their strength or arrow to so great a height, but to be able with the aid of so high an aim to hit the mark they wish to reach." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"life of Cyrus, written by Xenophon," -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Por tanto, a un príncipe le es necesario saber utilizar correctamente a la bestia y al hombre. Este detalle se lo enseñaron veladamente a los príncipes los escritores antiguos, que cuentan cómo Aquiles y otros muchos príncipes antiguos fueron entregados al centauro Quirón para que los educara bajo su disciplina. El tener como preceptor a alguien mitad animal y mitad hombre no quiere decir otra cosa que un príncipe necesita saber usar una y otra naturaleza, y que la una no perdura sin la otra.Así pues, dado que el príncipe necesita saber usar correctamente a la bestia, debe elegir de entre ellas a la zorra y al león, porque el león no sabe defenderse de las trampas ni la zorra de los lobos. Necesita, pues, ser zorra para reconocer las trampas y león para asustar a los lobos. Los que sólo imitan al león no saben lo que hacen. Por tanto, un señor prudente no puede ni debe mantener la palabra dada cuando eso se vuelva en su contra y hayan desaparecido los motivos que le llevaron a hacer la promesa." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Hence we may learn the lesson that on seizing a state, the usurper should make haste to inflict what injuries he must, at a stroke, that he may not have to renew them daily, but be enabled by their discontinuance to reassure men's minds, and afterwards win them over by benefits." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"زمانه آبستن هزار چیز است و همان اندازه آبستنِ خیر که آبستنِ شر." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Ο καθένας βλέπει αυτό που φαίνεσαι.Λίγοι καταλαβαίνουν αυτό που είσαι." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Since love and fear can hardly exist together,if we must choose between them,it is far safer to feared than loved." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Todos ven lo que pareces ser, mas pocos saben lo que eres." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Para la tradición moralista un buen príncipe desde el punto de vista político debía cumplir con cuatro virtudes centrales para todo hombre (prudencia, fortaleza, justicia y moderación) más una serie de virtudes específicamente principescas (como honestidad, magnanimidad o liberalidad). Se recomendaba además que la práctica política nunca entrara en conflicto con los principios morales." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"وليس هُناك طريقة أخرى أمام المرء يقي بها نفسهُ شر التملُق، سوى أن يدع الناس يُدرِكون أنه يحب أن يسمع منهم الحقيقة، لكنك تفقد احترامهم لك، لو سمحت لكل منهم أن يخبرك الحقيقة." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"you must never fail to respond to trouble just to avoid war, because in the end you won't avoid it, you'll just be putting it off to your enemy's advantage." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"And I'm sure we'd all agree that it would be an excellent thing if a ruler were to have all the good qualities mentioned above and none of the bad; but since it's in the nature of life that you can't have or practice all those qualities all the time, a ruler must take care to avoid the disgrace that goes with the kind of failings that could lose him his position. As for failings that wouldn't lead to his losing power, he should avoid them if he can; but if he can't, he needn't worry too much. In the same way, he mustn't be concerned about the bad reputation that comes with those negative qualities that are almost essential if he is to hold power. If you think about it, there'll always be something that looks morally right but would actually lead a ruler to disaster, and something else that looks wrong but will bring security and success." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"A wise prince, when he has the opportunity, ought with craft to foster some animosity against himself, so that, having crushed it, his renown may rise higher." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Przeto gdy krzywdzi się człowieka, należy czynić to w ten sposób, aby nie trzeba było obawiać się zemsty" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"for a man who wishes to act entirely up to hisprofessions of virtue soon meets with what destroys him among so much that is evil" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Pues un príncipe de este tipo no puede basarse en lo que ve en los períodos de tranquilidad, cuando los ciudadanos tienen necesidad del Estado, porque entonces todos corren, prometen y quieren morir por él, cuando la muerte está lejos. Pero en los tiempos adversos, cuando el Estado tiene necesidad de los ciudadanos, entonces encuentra dispuestos a pocos. Y tanto más peligrosa es esta experiencia cuanto que no se puede realizar más que una vez. Por eso un príncipe sabio debe pensar en un modo por el cual sus ciudadanos, siempre y en cualquier situación, tengan necesidad del Estado y de él; entonces siempre le serán fieles." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Não encontrei, entre os meus cabedais, coisa a mim mais cara ou que tanto estime, quanto o conhecimento das ações dos grandes homens, apreendido através de uma longa experiência das coisas modernas e uma contínua lição das antigas." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Çünkü insanlar, eğer iyi olmalarını gerektiren bir zorunluluk yoksa, kötü insanlar olarak karşımıza çıkar." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Un príncipe que no es sabio no puede ser bien aconsejado y, por ende, no puede gobernar." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"for it was a hard thing to give satisfaction both to soldiers and people because the people loved peace, and for this reason they loved the unaspiring prince, while the soldiers loved the warlike prince who was bold, cruel, and rapacious, which qualities they were quite willing he should exercise upon the people so that they could get double pay and give vent to their own greed and cruelty. Hence it arose that those emperors were always overthrown who, either by birth or training, had no great authority, and most of them, especially those who came new to the principality, recognizing the difficulty of these two opposing humours, were inclined to give satisfaction to the soldiers, caring little about injuring the people. Which course was necessary because, as princes cannot help being hated by someone, they ought, in the first place, to avoid being hated by everyone, and when they cannot compass this, they ought to endeavour with the utmost diligence to avoid the hatred of the most powerful. Therefore, those emperors who through inexperience had need of special favour adhered more readily to the soldiers than to the people, a course which turned out advantageous to them or not, accordingly as the prince knew how to maintain authority over them." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Trzeba być księciem, aby poznać naturę ludu. Trzeba należeć do ludu, aby poznać naturę książąt" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Ludzie prędzej puszczają w niepamięć śmierć ojca niż stratę ojcowizny" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Si los hombres fueran todos buenos, no lo sería este precepto, pero como son malvados y no te guardan la palabra dada, tú tampoco tienes por qué mantenerla con ellos. Además, jamás le faltaron a un príncipe razones legítimas para disfrazar su incumplimiento. De esto sepodrían dar infinitos ejemplos modernos y mostrar cuántas paces, cuántas promesas han resultado inútiles y vanas por la infidelidad de los príncipes; y el que mejor ha sabido hacer de zorra ha salido mejor librado. Pero es necesario saber disfrazar bien esta naturaleza y ser un gran simulador y disimulador; y los hombres son tan simples y obedecen tanto a las necesidades del momento que el que engaña encontrará siempre quien se deje engañar.No quiero callar uno de los ejemplos más recientes. Alejandro VI no hizo ni pensó jamás en otra cosa que en engañar a los hombres y siempre encontró con quien poder hacerlo. Nunca hubo un hombre que aseverara con mayor eficacia ni que con mayores juramentos afirmara una cosa y menos la cumpliera; y a pesar de todo siempre le salieron los engaños según sus deseos, porque conocía bien este lado del mundo.Por tanto, un príncipe no necesita poseer de hecho todas las cualidades antes mencionadas, pero es muy necesario que parezca que las tiene. Más aún, me atreveré a decir esto: que son perjudiciales si las tiene y las observa siempre, pero son útiles si aparenta tenerlas. Es decir, parecer compasivo, fiel, humano, íntegro, religioso, y serlo; pero estar con el ánimo dispuesto de tal manera que, si es necesario no serlo, puedas y sepas pasar a ser lo contrario. Y es preciso saber que un príncipe, y máxime un príncipe nuevo, no puede observar todo aquello por lo que los hombres son considerados buenos, dado que, para conservar el Estado, a menudo necesita obrar contra la lealtad, contra la caridad, contra la humanidad, contra la religión. Por eso necesita tener un ánimo dispuesto a moverse según se lo exijan los vientos de la fortuna y las variaciones de las cosas y, como he dicho antes, no alejarse del bien, si puede, pero saber entrar en el mal si es necesario." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Los florentinos, que carecían de ejércitos propios, trajeron diez mil franceses para conquistar a Pisa; y esta resolución les hizo correr más peligros de los que corrieran nunca en ninguna época. El emperador de Constantinopla, para ayudar a sus vecinos, puso en Grecia diez mil turcos, los cuales, una vez concluida la guerra, se negaron a volver a su patria; de donde empezó la servidumbre de Grecia bajo el yugo de los infieles." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"ينبغي أن يكون المَلك كالغيث يُحيي إذا هَمَى، والسيل يَروي إذا طمى، والبدر يَهدي إذا سما، والدهر يُعمي إذا رمى. الثعالبي" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Because men, when they receive good from him of whom they were expecting evil, are bound more closely to their benefactor;" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"El príncipe que, con sus ejércitos, va a efectuar saqueos y a llenarse de botín, y a apoderarse de los caudales de los vencidos, está obligado a ser pródigo con sus soldados, que no le seguirían sin ese estímulo." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"A man who becomes prince with the help of the nobles finds it more difficult to maintain his position than one who does so with the help of the people." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"just as a sculptor will more easily carve a beautiful statue from rough marble than from marble already spoiled by a bungling workman." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Hay dos maneras de combatir: una con leyes y otra con la fuerza, la primera es propia del hombre, la segunda es de los animales, pero como muchas veces la primera no basta conviene recurrir a la segunda." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Así pues, un príncipe debe tener gran cuidado de que jamás salga de su boca cosa alguna que no esté llena de las cinco cualidades ya mencionadas, y que cuando se le vea y se le oiga, parezca todo compasión, todo lealtad, todo integridad, todo humanidad, todo religión. Y no hay cosa más necesaria que debe aparentar poseer que esta última cualidad. Y los hombres en general juzgan más por los ojos que por las manos, porque a todos les es dado ver,pero a pocos palpar: todos ven lo que pareces pero pocos sienten lo que eres, y estos últimos no se atreven a oponerse a la opinión de la mayoría, que cuenta además con la fuerza del Estado para que la defienda. Y en las acciones de todos los hombres, y sobre todo en las de los príncipes, donde no hay tribunal ante el que reclamar, se atiende al fin obtenido69.Trate, pues, el príncipe de ganar y conservar el Estado y los medios siempre serán juzgados honorables y alabados por todos, porque el vulgo se deja conquistar por la apariencia y por el resultado final de las cosas, y en el mundo no hay más que vulgo; y no hay lugar para los pocos cuando la mayoría tiene donde apoyarse. Un príncipe de nuestros días, al que no conviene nombrar70, nunca predica otra cosa que paz y lealtad, cuando es un completo enemigo de ambas; y si hubiera observado tanto la una como la otra, más de una vez le habrían arrebatado la reputación o el Estado." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Człowiek, który pragnie zawsze i wszędzie wytrwać w dobrem, paść koniecznie musi między tymi ludźmi, którzy nie są dobrymi" -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Сильный, но не смертельный удар - это смерть для того, кто такой удар наносит." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"que el que ayuda a otro a hacerse poderoso causa su propia ruina. Porque es natural que el que se ha vuelto poderoso recele de la misma astucia o de la misma fuerza gracias a las cuales se lo ha ayudado." -Niccolo Machiavelli
"Hay tres modos de conservar un Estado que, antes de ser adquirido, estaba acostumbrado a regirse por sus propias leyes y a vivir en libertad: primero, destruirlo., después, radicarse en él; por último, dejarlo regir por sus leyes, obligarlo a pagar un tributo y establecer un gobierno compuesto por un corto número de personas, para que se encargue de velar por la conquista." -Niccolo Machiavelli