"The prize never goes to the fastest guy,' Chris replied. 'It goes to the guy who slows down the least.' True in endurance sports. And possibly even truer in life." -Rich Roll
"David Goggins quote I'd read years back--the idea that when you believe you've reached your absolute limit, you've only tapped into about 40 percent of what you're truly capable of. The barrier isn't the body. It's the mind." -Rich Roll
"when the mind is controlled and spirit aligned with purpose, the body is capable of so much more than we realize." -Rich Roll
"And at the end of the day, there is nothing but the journey. Because destination is pure illusion." -Rich Roll
"Pursue what's in your heart, and the universe will conspire to support you." -Rich Roll
"You can stand in the light. And you can set a positive example. But you simply cannot make someone change." -Rich Roll
"Our minds are mischievously clever. Time and again, they pull us back to the past and yank us forward into the future. Our perception of the world--and the story we tell ourselves about who we are--is completely colored by half-baked memories and imagined projections. But in truth this is all illusion... The only objective truth is the present moment--the now." -Rich Roll
"We are all capable of so much more than we allow ourselves to be... So let's hit reset. Let's begin anew the process of stepping into that person we always wanted, and deserve, to be." -Rich Roll
"the typical amateur endurance athlete trains far too hard on the aerobic and active recovery days. But not nearly hard enough on the intense days. A certain level of proficiency can be achieved this way, but full potential is never realized." -Rich Roll
"Morning routines vary wildly for these high achievers. Some wake up at 4:00 A.M. without fail. Others arise when their body says it's time, prioritizing their eight hours of rest. Some hit the gym immediately upon waking, while others spend this valuable time in quiet reflection, in meditation, journaling, writing, or immersed in a creative pursuit. But there is one thing that none of these people do. None of them meet the day by unconsciously reacting to their environment. They don't arise hurried or rushed. They're not flipping on the news or reaching impulsively for their phone to check e-mail or Instagram. In a word, they're not distracting themselves with matters inconsequential. Instead, they honor this time. They take it seriously. They meet it with mindful intention." -Rich Roll
"the words of writer Daphne Rose Kingma came to mind: 'Surrender is a beautiful movement in which you gracefully, willingly, languidly fall, only to find midway that you have been gathered into some unimaginable embrace. Surrender is letting go, whether or not you believe the embrace will occur. It's trust to the hundredth power--not sticking to your idea of the outcome, but letting go in the faith that even the absence of an outcome will be the perfect solution." -Rich Roll
"I have come to appreciate that great beauty lies in destruction." -Rich Roll
"Because she understood what I was only then coming to realize--that safety isn't just an illusion, it's a cop-out. I know it sounds trite, but there's simply nothing like a near-death experience to remind one of the impermanence of everything. And living imprisoned by fear only to die with regret over dreams postponed was a life neither of us was interested in." -Rich Roll
"when purpose aligns with faith, there can be no failure and all needs will be met--because the universe is infinitely abundant." -Rich Roll
"Rather than flog yourself over a slip, embrace it as simply an integral part of the process of change. Punish yourself and you've just made a second mistake - because holding yourself to an unrealistic standard... is a pattern that can lead to defeatism. A shame spiral that can take you out of the game altogether. And the game is all about long-term sustainability over short-term temporary gains." -Rich Roll
"The only thing I knew with clarity was that a voice deep in my heart continued to chant, Keep going. You're on the right track." -Rich Roll
"And to all those out there who feel stuck, lost, in a rut, or just unable to transcend habits or behaviors that no longer serve you, understand that we are with you. You are all an integral and vital part of this movement. Keep rising. We are with you in each breath and in every moment. This book is for you." -Rich Roll
"The only way through was to surrender--to" -Rich Roll
"I felt bad, yet I knew I'd made the right choice. I was following my heart." -Rich Roll
"...pursuing life premised on faith and passion isn't about thinking - it's what thinking was designed to prevent. It's not logical in any way, shape, or form... A terrifying reveal of 'identity' as pure fiction - mere stories we tell ourselves about who we are and why we do what we do to comfort us against the paralyzing unknowable - that forces us and others to confront the truth about choices made." -Rich Roll
"To be fair, fear retained a strong foothold of precious real estate in my consciousness. It still does. But I found the wherewithal to nonetheless propel forward in the face of it." -Rich Roll
"Do what you love; love those you care about; give service to others; and know that you're on the right path. There's a new path waiting for you, too. All you have to do is look for it--then take that first step. If you show up and stay present, that step will eventually become a gigantic leap forward. And then you'll show us who you really are." -Rich Roll
"When you think you're done, you've only tapped into 40 percent of what you are truly capable of." -Rich Roll
"Do what you love; love those you care about; give service to others; and know that you're on the right path." -Rich Roll
"I loved the pain, and the pain loved me back." -Rich Roll
"The United States is the most prosperous nation in the world, and yet our citizenship has been comprehensively reduced to consumerism... Buy and ye shall be happy. But what have we truly purchased? In the words of my favorite poet, Henry David Thoreau, 'The mass of men lead lives of quiet desperation,' our lives prostrate at the altar of the false gods of our instant-gratification society." -Rich Roll
"Proteins consist of twenty different amino acids, eleven of which can be synthesized naturally by our bodies. The remaining nine--what we call essential amino acids--must be ingested from the foods we eat. So technically, our bodies require certain amino acids, not protein per se. But these nine essential amino acids are hardly the exclusive domain of the animal kingdom. In fact, they're originally synthesized by plants and are found in meat and dairy products only because these animals have eaten plants. I was myself surprised to learn they're found in copious amounts in a wide variety of grains, nuts, seeds, vegetables, and legumes. Things like black, kidney, and pinto beans; almonds; lentils; a quirky seed called quinoa; and even spinach and broccoli. Who knew? I certainly didn't. So in the most generalized sense, if your diet contains a well-rounded variety of these plant-based foods--high in the nine essential amino acids in varying degrees and proportions--it is essentially impossible to be deficient in your body's ability to properly synthesize all the proteins it needs for proper tissue maintenance, repair, and functioning. In truth, only one out of about every ten calories we eat needs to come from protein, with a recommended daily allowance (RDA) of 0.8 grams per kilogram of bodyweight.*1 Meanwhile, studies suggest that the requirements of the athlete don't far exceed the RDA recommendation." -Rich Roll
"It's crazy how emotional and threatened people can become when the subject turns to food and diet. Merely mentioning plant-based nutrition often prompts immediate debate. But I relish the dialogue. It's been a kick confronting head-on the arguments of the critics and dissenting voices and putting them to the test. I've done my homework. I know how I feel. And my results speak for themselves." -Rich Roll
"Let's wrap up the protein question with one thought to ponder. Some of the strongest and most fierce animals in the world are PlantPowered. The elephant, rhino, hippo, and gorilla have one thing in common--they all get 100 percent of their protein from plants." -Rich Roll
"Then it was 'analyzed' by an 'expert,' who informed me that I required a shoe with a big foamy raised aft section and very firm custom-molded insole inserts to further raise my heel and arch. This predated the minimalist running craze ignited by Christopher McDougall's bestselling book Born to Run, and I was in no position to argue." -Rich Roll
"To understand me is to understand that I am an alcoholic, through and through. If something is good, then more is better, right? Balance is for ordinary people. Why not strive for extra-ordinary? This had always been my rule--and my ruin." -Rich Roll
"Proteins consist of twenty different amino acids, eleven of which can be synthesized naturally by our bodies. The remaining nine--what we call essential amino acids--must be ingested from the foods we eat. So technically, our bodies require certain amino acids, not protein per se. But these nine essential amino acids are hardly the exclusive domain of the animal kingdom. In fact, they're originally synthesized by plants and are found in meat and dairy products only because these animals have eaten plants. I was myself surprised to learn they're found in copious amounts in a wide variety of grains, nuts, seeds, vegetables, and legumes. Things like black, kidney, and pinto beans; almonds; lentils; a quirky seed called quinoa; and even spinach and broccoli. Who knew? I certainly didn't. So in the most generalized sense, if your diet contains a well-rounded variety of these plant-based foods--high in the nine essential amino acids in varying degrees and proportions--it is essentially impossible to be deficient in your body's ability to properly synthesize all the proteins it needs for proper tissue maintenance, repair, and functioning. In truth, only one out of about every ten calories we eat needs to come from protein, with a recommended daily allowance (RDA) of 0.8 grams per kilogram of bodyweight.*1 Meanwhile, studies suggest that the requirements of the athlete don't far exceed the RDA recommendation." -Rich Roll
"I can say with full confidence that my rapid transformation from middle-aged couch potato to Ultraman--to, in fact, everything I've accomplished as an endurance athlete--begins and ends with my Plantpower Diet. Along the way, I've sought and been blessed with the support and wisdom of many others--medical authorities, professional athletes, spiritual guides, not to mention Julie, who was my very first mentor in finding a food lifestyle that worked for me. And that food lifestyle has meant removing all animal products and most processed foods from my diet. No chicken, no eggs, no fish, no dairy. All plants, all whole foods, all the time. It's what I live on. It's what I train on. It's what I compete on. It's what I thrive on. I'm not a doctor. I'm not a nutritionist. I'm just a guy who started paying really close attention to what he was putting into his body." -Rich Roll
"Let's face it, Rich. Your best thinking has you institutionalized. The time has come to set aside your self-will. Because that barometer is broken. If you look at it objectively, it's an attribute that has essentially destroyed your life. And you simply cannot solve this problem with your mind. So let it go, already.' I couldn't fathom it at first. Without self-will, who was I? Doesn't that mean giving up? But Stan seemed to know what he was talking about. He'd helped hundreds before me get sober. Who was I to challenge his methods? So I agreed." -Rich Roll
"Next up on the list of challenges were the jellyfish. Ripping through a swarm of them around the halfway mark, I suffered more than a few stings across my arms, shoulders, and face. The shocks to the system sent my heart rate soaring and forced me to harness maximum mental composure to avert panic. Luckily for me, my stings were relatively mild in comparison to those suffered by Australian Kelly Duhig, who was pulled out of the water and rushed to the hospital in anaphylactic shock." -Rich Roll
"What I failed to realize at the time was just how poorly one can eat on a vegetarian diet." -Rich Roll
"But I--' My mind works furiously to understand how this situation has changed so dramatically from what I'd planned. They're fixing me up, it's dawning on me. They expect me to stay in the race! I wince as someone swabs my shoulder. This isn't how it was going to be! I'd made up my mind: I'm hurt, the bike is broken; it's over, isn't it? Julie, kneeling and bandaging my knee, glances up. She smiles. 'I think it's going to be okay,' she says. Peter McIntosh rises from where he's been adjusting the pedal into place. Staring directly into my eyes and sounding like a five-star general, he says, 'This is not over. Now, get back on your bike and get it done." -Rich Roll
"my accomplishments were wrought through pain. Through relentless perseverance and unwavering persistence. Through a commitment to being a little bit better today than I was yesterday. I am here because I embraced the journey, and all the pitches it could throw. I am here because I had extreme faith--in myself, in my song, and in something powerful beyond the self." -Rich Roll
"Pro Tip: Get used to drinking one robust glass of 'salad' for breakfast. Pour the remaining contents of your blender into a thermos. Take it with you to sip throughout the day to stave off cravings and keep your energy levels high." -Rich Roll
"The general take-away is this: eat plants. Lots of different kinds. Vegetables, fruits, nuts, grains, seeds, legumes. Every meal. All the time. All colors, all sizes, and simply prepared, close to their natural state. Keep it varied and focus on seasonality. Stick to the perimeter of the grocery store and avoid the middle aisles, which generally feature processed and refined foods. Don't eat things with ingredients you can't pronounce or that aren't found in nature. Try to eat organic and locally grown produce when at all possible. Stay away from refined sugar. And as for oils--use sparingly or avoid altogether." -Rich Roll
"I barely lifted a finger--let alone a pair of swim trunks--throughout the nineties. Alcoholism left me too hungover to get off the couch, and then everything became about recovery, leaving me zero time to exercise. Or so I believed. Combine a new family to care for with ever-present financial pressures and, well, the state of my physical well-being seemed very low priority. For years, as I sought to excel as a husband, father, and entertainment lawyer, the idea of 'eating healthy,' hitting the gym, or even getting some fresh air for that matter, rarely occurred to me. Who has time? There are just not enough hours in the day." -Rich Roll
"In A.A., it's repeatedly said that 'half measures will avail you nothing.' But I thought I had them fooled on that one by stringing together a few solid respites from drinking. Thirty days here; ten days there. Even six months at one point. But these dry intervals were exactly that--dry, but far from sober. At the time, I didn't understand the difference. I assumed it was normal to suffer uncomfortable teeth-grinding periods during which I'd resist my powerful urges while simultaneously plotting the day that I'd inevitably drink again. Unfortunately, that day appeared at regular intervals." -Rich Roll
"The priority is no longer self-actualization. Nor is it contribution. Personal responsibility has been exchanged for victimhood. Challenge is to be avoided. Comfort is king. And he who amasses the most wins. Indeed, personhood has been reduced to consumerism. Our social currency is stuff--worth dictated not by who we are but by what we own, fueled by a cultural mandate that forsakes the value of service, struggle, and authentic expression for the pursuit of luxury, instant gratification, and ease. The implicit promise of this perverted paradigm? Happiness, of course. Peace of mind. Contentment. This is perhaps the greatest lie ever perpetrated on humankind. Because stuff doesn't make one happy. Because the quest for status is rooted in ego. And because security is an illusion. As a result we suffer. In turn, we inflict pain on others. And upon the planet at large." -Rich Roll
"experience has taught me that we all sit atop mountains of untapped potential, capable of so much more than we allow ourselves to believe." -Rich Roll
"Get your ass to an A.A. meeting. Today,' Charlie commanded, and I was ready to oblige. But then I received an unimaginable stroke of good fortune: the West Los Angeles Courthouse had somehow misplaced the file on my first DUI arrest. They simply lost the docket. Thus, I was never prosecuted for that offense. 'I don't know who is looking out for you from above,' Charlie said, shaking his head, 'but this never happens. Ever." -Rich Roll
"Intellectually, we all know it's true. The key to our identity, and ultimately our happiness, cannot be found in what we own. Our quest is not to accumulate. It's not to seek power. And it's not to remain safe. Nonetheless, we persist in reflexively bowing to the material gods, mindlessly chasing that elusive consumerist high with the insatiable appetite of the fiendish addict. And just like that addict, we are left not fulfilled; instead we are broken, hollow, wreaking havoc, and like Thoreau's percipient observation, quietly desperate." -Rich Roll
"Let's wrap up the protein question with one thought to ponder. Some of the strongest and most fierce animals in the world are PlantPowered. The elephant, rhino, hippo, and gorilla have one thing in common--they all get 100 percent of their protein from plants." -Rich Roll
"TIP: Reduce your omega-6 intake by cutting out processed foods, animal protein, and oils derived from corn, canola, soy, sunflower, and safflower. Increase your omega-3 intake with nuts, seeds, avocados, dark leafy greens, and extra virgin olive oil. To maximize omega-3 content, eating these foods raw is optimal. But if cooking, do not overheat." -Rich Roll
"It's crazy how emotional and threatened people can become when the subject turns to food and diet. Merely mentioning plant-based nutrition often prompts immediate debate. But I relish the dialogue. It's been a kick confronting head-on the arguments of the critics and dissenting voices and putting them to the test. I've done my homework. I know how I feel. And my results speak for themselves." -Rich Roll
"The typical human body is composed of about ten trillion cells. And yet we harbor microorganisms ten times that number in our digestive tract alone, as many as forty thousand different bacterial strains." -Rich Roll
"If you saw the documentary Super Size Me, you recall filmmaker Morgan Spurlock's quest to see what would happen if he ate nothing but McDonald's food for thirty consecutive days. For the first few days, we watched him cringe, even vomit from his relentless fare of Big Macs, fries, and shakes. He felt sick. He suffered terrible headaches. But then a funny thing happened. That feeling of sickness went away. The headaches disappeared. Suddenly, he began to crave the food that just days prior had him cringing and buckled over. Then he began to wake up each morning with a headache that wouldn't quit until he got his McDonald's fix. How can this be explained? According to Compton, Morgan's dietary shift from a primarily plant-based diet to an entirely fast-food regimen effectively and quite rapidly replaced his healthy gut flora with a pathogenic microbial ecology that thrived specifically on the ingredients present in McDonald's food." -Rich Roll
"The prize never goes to the fastest guy,' Chris replied. 'It goes to the guy who slows down the least." -Rich Roll
"Let go of the end game. Instead, fall in love with the process. Show up for life with enthusiasm and commitment. Connect with spirit. Wrestle with your soul and relish every hardship. Along the way, be patient. Go gently. And give freely of yourself to others. Because it's the journey that truly gives your path meaning. And there truly is no destination. CONCLUSION Life" -Rich Roll
"I actually felt 'tapered,' a term that refers to that feeling of boundless energy that comes with a couple weeks of rest and easy training after a long, arduous season in the lead-up to a big race." -Rich Roll
"I chugged a recovery 'Endurance Elixir' that I'd brought--a concoction conceived specifically for me by my friend Compton Rom, a PhD in microbiology who had been using me as a guinea pig to test out various nutritional formulae for his wellness start-up Ascended Health. An entirely plant-based formula loaded with high-caliber nutrients sourced from the four corners of the globe--fermented greens, adaptogens, probiotics, Cordyceps mushroom extracts, marine phytoplankton, and exotic antioxidants, like nattokinase, resveratrol, and quercetin--it's the furthest thing from flavorful (to say the least) but always revives me like nature's Red Bull." -Rich Roll
"Healthy gut bacteria create a craving for healthy foods, while pathogenic bacteria create a craving for unhealthy foods. Change your microbes and you change your cravings. Change your cravings and you change your life." -Rich Roll
"But all we could do was accept the situation for what it was. Let go. We couldn't afford to expend energy on frustration or failed expectations." -Rich Roll
"On a daily basis, I am solicited for advice from people looking to complete their first endurance race, write a book, or start an online business. Before responding, I always retort with a few questions: Why is this personally meaningful to you? What do you hope to learn about yourself? And how is it helpful to others?" -Rich Roll
"Bridging the gap from fear to faith began with another irksome assignment in which I was compelled to share--out loud!--the entirety of my encyclopedia-sized moral, or should I say immoral, inventory. It's one thing to concede the nature of your wrongdoing to yourself. On some level we all do that. But expose every dark corner of your soul to a stranger? 'What on earth does this preposterous activity have to do with quitting drinking?' I asked Stan. 'If you don't haul the garbage out to the curb, your house is gonna stink like holy hell. And that rotten stench always leads back to using.' And so for the next five hours I recounted to a friendly neighborhood priest (hardly my person of choice) the resentments I held against essentially every person I'd ever met, everyone from my mother to the mailman. But even as I recalled some of the most embarrassing and horrific episodes of my life, he never once flinched. And when it was over--my depleted body and exposed soul having been turned inside out--he left me with just one question. 'Are you ready to let all of this go?" -Rich Roll
"However, studies have shown that the incidence of anemia among vegetarians and vegans is no higher than that among the general population.*7 It's believed that this is due to the fact that so many common plant-based foods happen to be high in iron. So heme or no heme, a person subsisting on a well-rounded plant-based diet that contains a mix of the foods listed in the chart below should experience no issues with respect to anemia." -Rich Roll
"Last year, I stunned the endurance sports community by coming out of nowhere at the ripe age of forty-two to place a respectable eleventh overall after only six months of serious training, and that was after decades of reckless drug and alcohol abuse that nearly killed me and others, plus no physical exertion more strenuous than lugging groceries into the house and maybe repotting a plant." -Rich Roll
"When I removed gluten from my diet, I experienced a rather dramatic improvement not just in the maintenance of my energy levels, but in my athletic performance as well. For example, I noticed my muscles and joints didn't hurt as much the day after a long run, likely the result of a reduction in inflammation, that pesky impediment to exercise recovery." -Rich Roll
"Never enlist friends or loved ones to crew for you.' Why? Because when deep fatigue and lack of sleep take hold, one's inner beast emerges, causing fracture of even the best of relationships. I never gave this much credence, particularly after experiencing such a bonding experience with my wife and kids at Ultraman in 2009. But now, for the first time, I was beginning to understand. I wasn't just cranky. I was becoming intolerable." -Rich Roll
"PLANTPOWER DIET Favorite Smoothie Ingredients Kale Spinach Dandelion Greens Beets and Beetroot Tomato Blackberry Blueberry Strawberry Spirulina Chlorophyll Hemp Seed, Oil, and Milk Acai Berry Coconut, Coconut Milk, Keifer, Water, and Oil Almonds and Almond Milk Cacao Aloe Vera Orange Grapefruit Spinach Celery Avocado Chia Seed Maca Marine Phytoplankton Almonds Walnuts Pepita Seeds Blue Green Algae Apple Cider Vinegar Green Sprouts Goji Berries Bananas" -Rich Roll
"Reverse mapping. Working backward from that November deadline, break down the ultimate goal into periodic stepping-stone goals--smaller, achievable milestones peppered throughout the calendar at regular intervals. These stepping-stone goals will serve as guideposts to measure progress toward the ultimate goal. Mark each stepping-stone goal in blue." -Rich Roll
"It was time to honestly evaluate how I spent every minute of every day. I scanned for wasted time, inefficient hours, and activities that failed to meet the litmus test of mission critical." -Rich Roll
"It's a solution that begins with how you feed the body. Extends to how you fuel the mind. And concludes with how you nourish the soul." -Rich Roll
"the wife who hadn't just supported my dreams but co-created them." -Rich Roll
"As Joseph Campbell, mythologist and author of The Hero's Journey once famously wrote, 'One can spend one's whole life climbing the ladder, only to realize it's been placed against the wrong wall." -Rich Roll
"Understand first that failure indicates courage. It means you had the bravery to test yourself. The temerity to challenge your status quo. The audacity to step outside your comfort zone." -Rich Roll
"It was time to honestly evaluate how I spent every minute of every day. I scanned for wasted time, inefficient hours, and activities that failed to meet the litmus test of mission critical. Utilizing many of the tools set forth in Timothy Ferriss's The Four-Hour Workweek, I made some drastic cuts, eventually creating a lifestyle template that forms the underpinnings of how I live and manage time today. On the professional front, I did away with all nonessential networking and business-development lunches, events, and meetings, a favorite Hollywood pastime that always sucked up precious hours and rarely led to new business. Unless it was crucial, I politely declined meeting with clients in person, forcing conversations to the phone. And anything that could be done via e-mail replaced lengthy conference calls. High-maintenance clients who represented low revenue were let go. Hours spent on the freeway commuting were traded whenever possible for the home office or the local Starbucks. I went digital on all fronts, untethering my business from location and always having handy my laptop or iPhone. And because I was self-employed--admittedly, a crucial component in my success equation--I could make creative decisions about when and where I worked, giving me the flexibility to train into the late morning and sometimes mid-afternoon without suffering professional consequences." -Rich Roll
"Each and every one of us has a story we tell ourselves about who we are. This story is compiled by memory. A self-selected series of past events that we, for whatever reason, have decided are formative and important. Think of a long thin branch on a very old tree. Each little knot on that branch represents one of those formative memories. From the moment we're born, our minds unconsciously connect these knots, forming associations between them to fashion a fluid mental construct. As we age, knots are added to the branch, ultimately quickening our sense of self into what we call our identity--a powerful crystal prism through which we perceive ourselves, interpret the world around us, and form our sense of truth. But, by its very nature a prism distorts reality. And when every thought we entertain, every action we take, is informed by and filtered through this prism, objective reality becomes almost impossible to discern. I was always picked last for kickball, therefore I can never be an athlete. I never get asked out, ergo I am unlovable. Every time I diet I gain it back, thus I will never have the body I desire." -Rich Roll
"Who are you?' more than a few people called out in an overlapping imperfect unison; a disruption that sent bolts of panic up my spine. 'Uh, my name is Rich,' I managed to stammer. 'And what are you?' asked Eric. What am I? What kind of question is that? I flashed once again to my only point of reference--television--searching for the appropriate response. 'My name is Rich….And I'm, uh…an alcoholic?' It was the first time I'd ever spoken those words aloud. And if you'd told me I'd ever utter them before a group of complete strangers, I would have said I was more likely to undergo a sex change. But the effect on my psyche was instantaneous, and unexpectedly profound." -Rich Roll
"we are consciousness. This consciousness is as undeniable as it is vast. And it is as invisible as it is unknowable, pulsing within us and beyond the constraints of our three-dimensional material world. It lives without boundaries, unlimited in scope, inexhaustible in energy, and unrestricted in its potential to shape and guide lives." -Rich Roll
"I still opt for a scoop of plant-based protein powder from time to time--after a particularly brutal workout, if I'm feeling overly fatigued from training, or when I know I haven't sourced quite enough whole food protein from my meals. I prefer to combine a variety of plant-based proteins for this purpose, such as hemp, pea, and sprouted brown rice, to ensure maximum bioavailability and assimilation of all the essential amino acids our bodies can't produce themselves. In fact, I recently formulated my own plant-based protein recovery supplement, in cooperation with microbiologist Compton Rom of Ascended Health, called Jai Repair. Infused with a proprietary blend of additional reparative nutrients like Cordyceps mushroom extracts, L-glutamine, vitamin B12, and antioxidants such as resveratrol, Jai Repair is scientifically devised to enhance rapid recovery from exercise-induced stress and is a formula I've come to rely on as a key component in my training regime." -Rich Roll
"Food for Life makes a wonderful line of sprouted grain breads, called Ezekiel 4:9," -Rich Roll
"Chris said it would take discipline to rebuild. I was now starting to understand what he meant. A different kind of discipline--the discipline to slow down. At this rate, the idea of competing in the Ironman suddenly seemed all the more impossible. But I trusted Chris. And I stuck to the plan." -Rich Roll
"Dateline, Kailua-Kona, Hawaii. Approximately 11:00 P.M. In fewer than seven days and on five separate islands, Jason Lester and Rich Roll successfully logged 12 miles of swimming, 560 miles of cycling, and 131 miles of running--703 miles in total." -Rich Roll
"Today was to be my tortoise moment. Slow and steady, cautious and smart. The plan hatched by Chris Hauth was to break the run into an extremely conservative interval workout. Run four miles. Then walk a full mile. Repeat. It was a strategy devised to prevent my core temperature from rising beyond the point of no return. No one wanted to fall prey to the dreaded 'Ironman shuffle'--that arresting corpse-like crawl brought on by overwhelming fatigue. But it was also a plan that required me to check my ego at the door. Walk? I'd specifically trained to run the entire distance. And having completed a forty-five-mile run just weeks prior, I knew I could do it. My pride revolted at a strategy that seemed to bespeak a lack of confidence in my abilities." -Rich Roll
"From that lost soul careening into oblivion--hoping to die but unable to live--to a man now fully engaged in life, meeting reality head-on in the grips of this most fantastic adventure." -Rich Roll
"The mass of men lead lives of quiet desperation, and go to the grave with the song still in them.' --HENRY DAVID THOREAU" -Rich Roll
"Ultra-marathon legend and vegan Scott Jurek claims that his body has become so adept at absorbing his nutrient-rich foods that he needs to eat less and operates at a higher efficiency. I can honestly say that I know what he's talking about." -Rich Roll
"unhealthy relationship with myself" -Rich Roll
"TIP: Squeezing fresh lemon juice or adding a few tablespoons of apple cider vinegar to your water is a simple and effective way to immediately alkalize your system. And it's very effective in combating the onset of head colds and the flu." -Rich Roll
"In fact, studies have shown that for some people, the sight of ice cream stimulates the same pleasure centers in the brain as images of crack pipes do for crack addicts. Over time, we begin to heavily associate certain situations and emotions with a particular type of food. These associations become cemented pathways in the brain, establishing addictive patterns that can be seemingly impossible to break. The grip is tight, and more often than not, willpower proves futile." -Rich Roll
"did you know that most breads contain amino acid extracts derived from whey protein, a by-product of cheese production? And that whey protein or its dairy cousin, casein, can be found in most boxed cereals, crackers, nutrition bars, veggie 'meat' products, and condiments?" -Rich Roll
"Surrender is a beautiful movement in which you gracefully, willingly, languidly fall, only to find midway that you have been gathered into some unimaginable embrace. Surrender is letting go, whether or not you believe the embrace will occur. It's trust to the hundredth power--not sticking to your idea of the outcome, but letting go in the faith that even the absence of an outcome will be the perfect solution." -Rich Roll
"Combine iron intake with vitamin C. Research has established that the absorption of non-heme (plant-based) iron is significantly enhanced when it's ingested in conjunction with foods high in vitamin C--up to sixfold, in fact. Accordingly, I combine red pepper or citrus fruits such as oranges or grapefruit (all high in vitamin C) with dark leafy greens or pumpkin seeds (high in iron) in my daily blended smoothies. And as an extra step, I always keep a bag of pumpkin seeds in my car, along with some fruit to munch while I drive--a tip I picked up on the friendly advice of former pro triathlete and plant-based pioneer Brendan Brazier. Avoid coffee and tea at mealtime. The tannins contained in coffee or tea (irrespective of caffeine content) impede the body's ability to absorb iron, up to 50 to 60 percent. So if you're concerned about your iron stores, it's best to avoid these drinks an hour or so both before and after meals. Vitamin B12 supplementation. Vitamin B12 is another compound required to generate red blood cells. So a deficiency in this vitamin can also lead to anemia. And vitamin B12 is the one essential nutrient that simply cannot be found in the plant kingdom. But again, there is no need to be alarmed, run out to the grocery, and start gorging on steaks. The fix is easy. You can simply take a B12 supplement, available in capsule form at any health food store. Alternatively, many meal supplements contain the RDA of B12. Furthermore, nutritional yeast, which we use in a variety of our recipes in our cookbook The Plantpower Way, such as Cashew Cheese, is also high in B12" -Rich Roll
"But what does that word 'surrender' mean? As I let myself float that morning, my body fully supported by the warm ebb and flow of the sea, the words of writer Daphne Rose Kingma came to mind: 'Surrender is a beautiful movement in which you gracefully, willingly, languidly fall, only to find midway that you have been gathered into some unimaginable embrace. Surrender is letting go, whether or not you believe the embrace will occur. It's trust to the hundredth power--not sticking to your idea of the outcome, but letting go in the faith that even the absence of an outcome will be the perfect solution." -Rich Roll
"Imagine a rocket ship on the launchpad. It takes a tremendous amount of force to propel such a vessel from the Earth's surface to the outer reaches of its gravitational pull. But once in orbit, only the smallest force is required to guide that ship's trajectory. You are the ship. Those with whom you surround yourself are the thrusters--powerful engines that can either detonate you upon ignition or propel you beyond the Earth's atmosphere, releasing you with the self-propelling tools and habits required to pursue the interstellar landscape of your dreams." -Rich Roll
"Food is medicine. The inescapable truth is that adopting a plant-based, plant-centric approach to your plate is without a doubt the single most powerful and positively impactful thing you can possibly do as a conscious, compassionate consumer. It is the medicine that will prevent and reverse many a disease, significantly reduce your carbon footprint, and help preserve the Earth's bounty for our children, our children's children, and our animal friends alike." -Rich Roll
"What's the worst thing that can happen? she'd ask. We're healthy. In love. Living life according to our own rules. And that's all that matters. Everything else is just stuff." -Rich Roll
"But I couldn't do it alone; my success relied heavily on my crew. Unlike most endurance events, Ultraman is a completely self-supported adventure. From a van that was packed floor to ceiling with spare bicycle parts, tools, food bins, canisters of race nutrition, coolers of ice water, overnight luggage, and enough race apparel to suit all weather conditions, it was up to my crew to not just cheerlead, but monitor my hydration and caloric intake, manage unforeseen obstacles like equipment failure, and navigate the many tricky turns necessary to keep me on course. Of course, nothing ever goes according to plan. But I'd assembled a great team that was captained by my cyclist friend Chris Uettwiller. Also helping out: the Buddha-like L. W. Walman, and my dad, who'd flown in from Washington, D.C., and was thrilled to be handling driving duties." -Rich Roll
"2 cups apple juice 2 cups filtered water 2 leaves curly kale, stripped from stalks Handful raw pepitas (about 2 tablespoons) 1½ cups frozen blueberries 1 banana ½' piece fresh ginger with skin ½' slice raw beet with skin 8 basil leaves, stems removed ½ lemon, peeled" -Rich Roll
"I'll take some antioxidants to combat stress and exercise-induced free radical damage, but I'm not talking about vitamin pills. I'm talking about blackberries, blueberries, strawberries, acai and goji berries, moringa, spinach, kale, carrots, and spirulina. I'll also think about eating some walnuts for protein and drinking coconut water for electrolytes. And when I crave dessert, instead of ice cream or pie I'll try blending banana and berries with coconut milk and cacao--a chocolate-flavored nutritious superfood high in antioxidants. A guilt-free delight." -Rich Roll
"Before he would even begin to train me, Chris insisted that I undertake what is called a lactate test--a torturous procedure scientifically designed to identify a person's level of fitness with relative exactitude. So the first week of May 2008 I visited Phase IV Scientific Health and Performance Center in Santa Monica. My bike was rigged up to a machine called a CompuTrainer, which used a computer to calculate my cycling cadence and watts--the measure of power my legs exerted with each pedal stroke. After a brief warm-up, watts--or pedal resistance--were progressively increased every four minutes until failure. And with each successive four-minute interval, my heart rate was recorded and my blood tested--all to evaluate the level of lactate in my system, an indicator of physiological fatigue." -Rich Roll
"But it wasn't long before this strategy started to pay dividends. With each successive four-mile running interval, I began to pass runners, two to four at a time. When I walked, one of these athletes would again pass me, but not the others. And when I resumed the running, I would pass that person, plus two to three more. Again and again. Leapfrogging my way up the field. And that's when I started to believe." -Rich Roll
"One can spend one's whole life climbing the ladder, only to realize it's been placed against the wrong wall." -Rich Roll
"True to Chris's word, unwavering adherence to the plan began to pay significant dividends. I found myself able to run quicker without my heart rate escalating. What started at a 10:15-minute-per-mile run pace at 145 beats per minute was soon a 9:30 pace. Before long, an 8:30 pace morphed to 8:00--all within the sacrosanct Z2 range. But the bulk of my training was spent on the bike. Because the body can ride many more hours than it can run or swim, it's the optimal and most time-efficient way to build endurance fitness without risking leg and shoulder injuries. And by sticking to the ethos of Z2, I was surprised to never experience the debilitating fatigue I'd grown accustomed to as a collegiate swimmer." -Rich Roll
"The foods we eat, the air we breathe, the toxins we absorb through our skin, and the stress we manage all factor into our body's pH. And although there's a consensus among nutritionists and medical experts well versed in these matters that somewhere in the range of 80 percent of the foods we ingest should be alkaline-forming and 20 percent acidic, the typical American diet--combined with our fast-paced, stress-inducing urban lifestyle--is overwhelmingly acid-forming. Processed foods, sodas, meat and dairy proteins, polluted air, and simple life pressures all contribute to what is called 'metabolic acidosis,' or a chronic state of body acidity. Why is this important? When the body is in a protracted or chronic state of even low-grade acidosis, which most people's bodies these days are, it must marshal copious resources to maintain blood pH somewhere in the optimal 7.35 orbit. Over time, the body pays a significant tax that manifests in a susceptibility to any array of infirmities: fatigue; impaired sleep and immune system functionality; a decrease in cellular energy output, nutrient absorption, bone density, and growth hormone levels, which over time lead to a reduction in muscle mass; an increase in inflammation and weight gain, leading to obesity; the promotion of kidney disorders, tumor cell growth, mood swings, and osteoporosis. And I haven't included in that list a variety of bacterial and viral maladies that flourish in the acidic environment." -Rich Roll
"As consumers we vote with our dollar. That money spent is a reflection of our values. So ask yourself this: What am I voting for? Who am I and what do I truly stand for?" -Rich Roll
"I turned to Jason. 'People are watching us, man. We're not alone. Maybe we're making a difference--having an impact on people's lives?' Thinking back, it's embarrassing to recall those words. It's not at all like me to engage in such self-congratulatory hyperbole, but that's what happened. I said it because I was desperate. At that particular moment, I needed to hear myself say it. Because to keep moving forward, I needed to believe that this lunacy held some meaning outside myself. And so did Jason. It seems like such a small thing. But by saying those words out loud we were able to take the focus off the fatigue and embrace an idea that had begun to take root that morning during my pre-swim meditation." -Rich Roll
"How to set a goal. Several decades ago, renowned management consultant Peter Drucker popularized a system of goal defining and achievement known as the SMART Criteria, a mnemonic acronym to optimally structure the setting of objectives. It works for me, it will work for you. I've supplemented it with my own spin. It goes like this: Specific. A goal must be clear and unambiguous; without vagaries and platitudes. It must indicate exactly what is expected, why is it important, who's involved, where is it going to happen, and which attributes are important. Measurable. A goal must include concrete criteria for measuring progress toward its attainment. If a goal is not measurable, it is not possible to know whether you're making progress toward successful completion. Attainable. A goal must fall within realistic parameters, accessible enough to craft a logical roadmap toward its achievement. However, I would provide the personal caveat that no goal worthy of your complete attention, time, and resources should be too realistic. It should be big. Big enough to scare you. Audacious enough to tingle the senses, keep you up at night, and launch you out of bed in the morning. In preparation for my first Ultraman, I never missed a single workout, primarily because I was scared out of my mind. That said, a goal must be rooted in tangible reality. Understand the distinction between audacious and ludicrous. Relevant. This takes us back to the spirituality of pursuit. A goal must contain personal meaning. You should understand why its pursuit holds importance in the context of your personal growth. In other words, it has to matter. The more it matters, the better. Time-bound. A goal must have a target date and be grounded within a specific time frame. Deadlines create structure, foster a sense of urgency, and focus the prioritization of time and energy. Service-oriented. This is my personal addition to the criteria (so now it's 'SMARTS'). Although a goal must carry great personal meaning, in my experience, the pursuit of that goal is best served when it is also in service to something beyond the self. This can take any number of forms: raising money for a cause you believe in; perhaps a blog chronicling the journey to inspire friends and family. It doesn't matter. What does matter is the spirit in which you approach it." -Rich Roll
"Today finds us facing an unprecedented healthcare crisis. Despite spending over $22 billion a year on fad diet and weight-loss products, 70 percent of all Americans are obese or overweight. One out of every three deaths in America is attributable to heart disease, our number one killer. By 2030, 30 percent of Americans will be diabetic or pre-diabetic. And depression is the leading cause of ill health and disability worldwide. Despite the heartbreaking fact that a vast majority of these chronic diseases can be prevented and often reversed through some simple diet and lifestyle changes, we instead divest ourselves of personal responsibility and become willing indentured servants to the pharmaceutical industry, popping pills that effectively mask symptoms but, more often than not, do little or nothing to prevent or cure the underlying chronic illnesses that ail us." -Rich Roll
"To understand me is to understand that I am an alcoholic, through and through. If something is good, then more is better, right? Balance is for ordinary people. Why not strive for extra-ordinary? This had always been my rule--and my ruin." -Rich Roll
"Proteins consist of twenty different amino acids, eleven of which can be synthesized naturally by our bodies. The remaining nine--what we call essential amino acids--must be ingested from the foods we eat. So technically, our bodies require certain amino acids, not protein per se. But these nine essential amino acids are hardly the exclusive domain of the animal kingdom. In fact, they're originally synthesized by plants and are found in meat and dairy products only because these animals have eaten plants. I was myself surprised to learn they're found in copious amounts in a wide variety of grains, nuts, seeds, vegetables, and legumes. Things like black, kidney, and pinto beans; almonds; lentils; a quirky seed called quinoa; and even spinach and broccoli. Who knew? I certainly didn't. So in the most generalized sense, if your diet contains a well-rounded variety of these plant-based foods--high in the nine essential amino acids in varying degrees and proportions--it is essentially impossible to be deficient in your body's ability to properly synthesize all the proteins it needs for proper tissue maintenance, repair, and functioning. In truth, only one out of about every ten calories we eat needs to come from protein, with a recommended daily allowance (RDA) of 0.8 grams per kilogram of bodyweight.*1 Meanwhile, studies suggest that the requirements of the athlete don't far exceed the RDA recommendation." -Rich Roll
"I can say with full confidence that my rapid transformation from middle-aged couch potato to Ultraman--to, in fact, everything I've accomplished as an endurance athlete--begins and ends with my Plantpower Diet. Along the way, I've sought and been blessed with the support and wisdom of many others--medical authorities, professional athletes, spiritual guides, not to mention Julie, who was my very first mentor in finding a food lifestyle that worked for me. And that food lifestyle has meant removing all animal products and most processed foods from my diet. No chicken, no eggs, no fish, no dairy. All plants, all whole foods, all the time. It's what I live on. It's what I train on. It's what I compete on. It's what I thrive on. I'm not a doctor. I'm not a nutritionist. I'm just a guy who started paying really close attention to what he was putting into his body." -Rich Roll
"Let's face it, Rich. Your best thinking has you institutionalized. The time has come to set aside your self-will. Because that barometer is broken. If you look at it objectively, it's an attribute that has essentially destroyed your life. And you simply cannot solve this problem with your mind. So let it go, already.' I couldn't fathom it at first. Without self-will, who was I? Doesn't that mean giving up? But Stan seemed to know what he was talking about. He'd helped hundreds before me get sober. Who was I to challenge his methods? So I agreed." -Rich Roll
"Next up on the list of challenges were the jellyfish. Ripping through a swarm of them around the halfway mark, I suffered more than a few stings across my arms, shoulders, and face. The shocks to the system sent my heart rate soaring and forced me to harness maximum mental composure to avert panic. Luckily for me, my stings were relatively mild in comparison to those suffered by Australian Kelly Duhig, who was pulled out of the water and rushed to the hospital in anaphylactic shock." -Rich Roll
"What I failed to realize at the time was just how poorly one can eat on a vegetarian diet." -Rich Roll
"But I--' My mind works furiously to understand how this situation has changed so dramatically from what I'd planned. They're fixing me up, it's dawning on me. They expect me to stay in the race! I wince as someone swabs my shoulder. This isn't how it was going to be! I'd made up my mind: I'm hurt, the bike is broken; it's over, isn't it? Julie, kneeling and bandaging my knee, glances up. She smiles. 'I think it's going to be okay,' she says. Peter McIntosh rises from where he's been adjusting the pedal into place. Staring directly into my eyes and sounding like a five-star general, he says, 'This is not over. Now, get back on your bike and get it done." -Rich Roll
"my accomplishments were wrought through pain. Through relentless perseverance and unwavering persistence. Through a commitment to being a little bit better today than I was yesterday. I am here because I embraced the journey, and all the pitches it could throw. I am here because I had extreme faith--in myself, in my song, and in something powerful beyond the self." -Rich Roll
"Pro Tip: Get used to drinking one robust glass of 'salad' for breakfast. Pour the remaining contents of your blender into a thermos. Take it with you to sip throughout the day to stave off cravings and keep your energy levels high." -Rich Roll
"The general take-away is this: eat plants. Lots of different kinds. Vegetables, fruits, nuts, grains, seeds, legumes. Every meal. All the time. All colors, all sizes, and simply prepared, close to their natural state. Keep it varied and focus on seasonality. Stick to the perimeter of the grocery store and avoid the middle aisles, which generally feature processed and refined foods. Don't eat things with ingredients you can't pronounce or that aren't found in nature. Try to eat organic and locally grown produce when at all possible. Stay away from refined sugar. And as for oils--use sparingly or avoid altogether." -Rich Roll
"I barely lifted a finger--let alone a pair of swim trunks--throughout the nineties. Alcoholism left me too hungover to get off the couch, and then everything became about recovery, leaving me zero time to exercise. Or so I believed. Combine a new family to care for with ever-present financial pressures and, well, the state of my physical well-being seemed very low priority. For years, as I sought to excel as a husband, father, and entertainment lawyer, the idea of 'eating healthy,' hitting the gym, or even getting some fresh air for that matter, rarely occurred to me. Who has time? There are just not enough hours in the day." -Rich Roll
"In A.A., it's repeatedly said that 'half measures will avail you nothing.' But I thought I had them fooled on that one by stringing together a few solid respites from drinking. Thirty days here; ten days there. Even six months at one point. But these dry intervals were exactly that--dry, but far from sober. At the time, I didn't understand the difference. I assumed it was normal to suffer uncomfortable teeth-grinding periods during which I'd resist my powerful urges while simultaneously plotting the day that I'd inevitably drink again. Unfortunately, that day appeared at regular intervals." -Rich Roll
"The priority is no longer self-actualization. Nor is it contribution. Personal responsibility has been exchanged for victimhood. Challenge is to be avoided. Comfort is king. And he who amasses the most wins. Indeed, personhood has been reduced to consumerism. Our social currency is stuff--worth dictated not by who we are but by what we own, fueled by a cultural mandate that forsakes the value of service, struggle, and authentic expression for the pursuit of luxury, instant gratification, and ease. The implicit promise of this perverted paradigm? Happiness, of course. Peace of mind. Contentment. This is perhaps the greatest lie ever perpetrated on humankind. Because stuff doesn't make one happy. Because the quest for status is rooted in ego. And because security is an illusion. As a result we suffer. In turn, we inflict pain on others. And upon the planet at large." -Rich Roll
"experience has taught me that we all sit atop mountains of untapped potential, capable of so much more than we allow ourselves to believe." -Rich Roll
"Get your ass to an A.A. meeting. Today,' Charlie commanded, and I was ready to oblige. But then I received an unimaginable stroke of good fortune: the West Los Angeles Courthouse had somehow misplaced the file on my first DUI arrest. They simply lost the docket. Thus, I was never prosecuted for that offense. 'I don't know who is looking out for you from above,' Charlie said, shaking his head, 'but this never happens. Ever." -Rich Roll
"Intellectually, we all know it's true. The key to our identity, and ultimately our happiness, cannot be found in what we own. Our quest is not to accumulate. It's not to seek power. And it's not to remain safe. Nonetheless, we persist in reflexively bowing to the material gods, mindlessly chasing that elusive consumerist high with the insatiable appetite of the fiendish addict. And just like that addict, we are left not fulfilled; instead we are broken, hollow, wreaking havoc, and like Thoreau's percipient observation, quietly desperate." -Rich Roll