"When you show yourself to the world and display your talents, you naturally stir all kinds of resentment, envy, and other manifestations of insecurity... you cannot spend your life worrying about the petty feelings of others" -Robert Greene
"LAW 4 Always Say Less Than Necessary When you are trying to impress people with words, the more you say, the more common you appear, and the less in control. Even if you are saying something banal, it will seem original if you make it vague, open-ended, and sphinxlike. Powerful people impress and intimidate by saying less. The more you say, the more likely you are to say something foolish." -Robert Greene
"If you are unsure of a course of action, do not attempt it. Your doubts and hesitations will infect your execution. Timidity is dangerous: Better to enter with boldness. Any mistakes you commit through audacity are easily corrected with more audacity. Everyone admires the bold; no one honors the timid." -Robert Greene
"Keep your friends for friendship, but work with the skilled and competent" -Robert Greene
"Do not leave your reputation to chance or gossip; it is your life's artwork, and you must craft it, hone it, and display it with the care of an artist." -Robert Greene
"LAW 46Never Appear Too PerfectAppearing better than others is always dangerous, but most dangerous of all is to appear to have no faults or weaknesses. Envy creates silent enemies. It is smart to occasionally display defects, and admit to harmless vices, in order to deflect envy and appear more human and approachable. Only gods and the dead can seem perfect with impunity." -Robert Greene
"LAW 25Re-Create YourselfDo not accept the roles that society foists on you. Re-create yourself by forging a new identity, one that commands attention and never bores the audience. Be the master of your own image rather than letting others define if for you. Incorporate dramatic devices into your public gestures and actions – your power will be enhanced and your character will seem larger than life." -Robert Greene
"Never assume that the person you are dealing with is weaker or less important than you are. Some people are slow to take offense, which may make you misjudge the thickness of their skin, and fail to worry about insulting them. But should you offend their honor and their pride, they will overwhelm you with a violence that seems sudden and extreme given their slowness to anger. If you want to turn people down, it is best to do so politely and respectfully, even if you feel their request is impudent or their offer ridiculous." -Robert Greene
"Think of it this way: There are two kinds of failure. The first comes from never trying out your ideas because you are afraid, or because you are waiting for the perfect time. This kind of failure you can never learn from, and such timidity will destroy you. The second kind comes from a bold and venturesome spirit. If you fail in this way, the hit that you take to your reputation is greatly outweighed by what you learn. Repeated failure will toughen your spirit and show you with absolute clarity how things must be done." -Robert Greene
"Many a serious thinker has been produced in prisons, where we have nothing to do but think." -Robert Greene
"...But the human tongue is a beast that few can master. It strains constantly to break out of its cage, and if it is not tamed, it will tun wild and cause you grief." -Robert Greene
"Never waste valuable time, or mental peace of mind, on the affairs of others—that is too high a price to pay." -Robert Greene
"LAW 38Think As You Like But Behave Like OthersIf you make a show of going against the times, flaunting your unconventional ideas and unorthodox ways, people will think that you only want attention and that you look down upon them. They will find a way to punish you for making them feel inferior. It is far safer to blend in and nurture the common touch. Share your originality only with tolerant friends and those who are sure to appreciate your uniqueness." -Robert Greene
"The future belongs to those who learn more skills and combine them in creative ways." -Robert Greene
"Lord, protect me from my friends; I can take care of my enemies." -Robert Greene
"There is nothing more intoxicating than victory, and nothing more dangerous." -Robert Greene
"Strike the shepherd and the sheep will scatter" -Robert Greene
"Understand: people will constantly attack you in life. One of their main weapons will be to instill in you doubts about yourself – your worth, your abilities, your potential. They will often disguise this as their objective opinion, but invariably it has a political purpose – they want to keep you down." -Robert Greene
"When our emotions are engaged, we often have trouble seeing things as they are." -Robert Greene
"person who cannot control his words shows that he cannot control himself, and is unworthy of respect." -Robert Greene
"Be wary of friends—they will betray you more quickly, for they are easily aroused to envy. They also become spoiled and tyrannical. But hire a former enemy and he will be more loyal than a friend, because he has more to prove. In fact, you have more to fear from friends than from enemies. If you have no enemies, find a way to make them." -Robert Greene
"No one is really going to help you or give you direction. In fact, the odds are against you." -Robert Greene
"People around you, constantly under the pull of their emotions, change their ideas by the day or by the hour, depending on their mood. You must never assume that what people say or do in a particular moment is a statement of their permanent desires." -Robert Greene
"You choose to let things bother you. You can just as easily choose not to notice the irritating offender, to consider the matter trivial and unworthy of your interest. That is the powerful move. What you do not react to cannot drag you down in a futile engagement. Your pride is not involved. The best lesson you can teach an irritating gnat is to consign it to oblivion by ignoring it." -Robert Greene
"The time that leads to mastery is dependent on the intensity of our focus." -Robert Greene
"For the future, the motto is, ""No days unalert." -Robert Greene
"Despise The Free Lunch" -Robert Greene
"Few are born bold. Even Napoleon had to cultivate the habit on the battlefield, where he knew it was a matter of life and death. In social settings he was awkward and timid, but he overcame this and practice boldness in every part of his life because he saw its tremendous power, how it could literally enlarge a man(even one who, like Napoleon, was in fact conspicuously small)." -Robert Greene
"People are more complicated than the masks they wear in society." -Robert Greene
"Be Royal in your Own Fashion: Act like a King to be treated" -Robert Greene
"In the future, the great division will be between those who have trained themselves to handle these complexities and those who are overwhelmed by them -- those who can acquire skills and discipline their minds and those who are irrevocably distracted by all the media around them and can never focus enough to learn." -Robert Greene
"When you meet a swordsman, draw your sword: Do not recite poetry to one who is not a poet." -Robert Greene
"To succeed in the game of power, you have to master your emotions. But even if you succeed in gaining such self-control, you can never control the temperamental dispositions of those around you. And this presents a great danger." -Robert Greene
"Remember: The best deceivers do everything they can to cloak their roguish qualities. They cultivate an air of honesty in one area to disguise their dishonesty in others. Honesty is merely another decoy in their arsenal of weapons." -Robert Greene
"Sweet are the thoughts that savour of content, The quiet mind is richer than a crown..." -Robert Greene
"12--Lose Battles, But Win The War: Grand StrategyGrand strategy is the art of looking beyond the present battle and calculating ahead. Focus on your ultimate goal and plot to reach it." -Robert Greene
"A Prince asked the dying spanish statesman, ""Does your Excellency forgive all your enemies?"" ""I do not have to forgive all my enemies,"" answered the stateman, ""I have had them all shot." -Robert Greene
"An emotional response to a situation is the single greatest barrier to power, a mistake that will cost you a lot more than any temporary satisfaction you might gain by expressing your feelings." -Robert Greene
"Never be distracted by people’s glamorous portraits of themselves and their lives; search and dig for what really imprisons them." -Robert Greene
"do I not destroy my enemies when I make them my friends?" -Robert Greene
"A heckler once interrupted Nikita Khrushchev in the middle of a speech in which he was denouncing the crimes of Stalin. 'You were a colleague of Stalin’s,' the heckler yelled, 'why didn’t you stop him then?' Khrushschev apparently could not see the heckler and barked out, 'Who said that?' No hand went up. No one moved a muscle. After a few seconds of tense silence, Khrushchev finally said in a quiet voice, 'Now you know why I didn’t stop him.' Instead of just arguing that anyone facing Stalin was afraid, knowing that the slightest sign of rebellion would mean certain death, he had made them feel what it was like to face Stalin—had made them feel the paranoia, the fear of speaking up, the terror of confronting the leader, in this case Khrushchev. The demonstration was visceral and no more argument was necessary." -Robert Greene
"He who poses as a fool is not a fool." -Robert Greene
"We are all in search of feeling more connected to reality—to other people, the times we live in, the natural world, our character, and our own uniqueness. Our culture increasingly tends to separate us from these realities in various ways. We indulge in drugs or alcohol, or engage in dangerous sports or risky behavior, just to wake ourselves up from the sleep of our daily existence and feel a heightened sense of connection to reality. In the end, however, the most satisfying and powerful way to feel this connection is through creative activity. Engaged in the creative process we feel more alive than ever, because we are making something and not merely consuming, Masters of the small reality we create. In doing this work, we are in fact creating ourselves." -Robert Greene
"Become who you are by learning who you are." -Robert Greene
"friendship and love blind every man to their interests." -Robert Greene
"Never whine, never complain, never try to justify yourself." -Robert Greene
"Do not fight them. Instead think of them the way you think of children, or pets, not important enough to affect your mental balance" -Robert Greene
"Her seductive power, however, did not lie in her looks [...]. In reality, Cleopatra was physically unexceptional and had no political power, yet both Caesar and Antony, brave and clever men, saw none of this. What they saw was a woman who constantly transformed herself before their eyes, a one-woman spectacle.Her dress and makeup changed from day to day, but always gave her a heightened, goddesslike appearance. Her words could be banal enough, but were spoken so sweetly that listeners would find themselves remembering not what she said but how she said it." -Robert Greene
"The key to power, then, is the ability to judge who is best able to further your interests in all situations. Keep friends for friendship, but work with the skilled and competent." -Robert Greene
"The human tongue is a beast that few can master." -Robert Greene
"The most effective attitude to adopt is one of supreme acceptance. The world is full of people with different characters and temperaments. We all have a dark side, a tendency to manipulate, and aggressive desires. The most dangerous types are those who repress their desires or deny the existence of them, often acting them out in the most underhanded ways. Some people have dark qualities that are especially pronounced. You cannot change such people at their core, but must merely avoid becoming their victim. You are an observer of the human comedy, and by being as tolerant as possible, you gain a much greater ability to understand people and to influence their behavior when necessary" -Robert Greene
"Oysters open completely when the moon is full; and when the crab sees one it throws a piece of stone or seaweed into it and the oyster cannot close again so that it serves the crab for meat. Such is the fate of him who opens his mouth too much and thereby puts himself at the mercy of the listener. Leonardo da Vinci, 1452-1519" -Robert Greene
"The problem with all students, he said, is that they inevitably stop somewhere. They hear an idea and they hold on to it until it becomes dead; they want to flatter themselves that they know the truth. But true Zen never stops, never congeals into such truths. That is why everyone must constantly be pushed to the abyss, starting over and feeling their utter worthlessness as a student. Without suffering and doubts, the mind will come to rest on clichés and stay there, until the spirit dies as well. Not even enlightenment is enough. You must continually start over and challenge yourself." -Robert Greene
"Your fears are a kind of prison that confines you within a limited range of action. The less you fear, the more power you will have and the more fully you will live." -Robert Greene
"There is too little mystery in the world; too many people say exactly what they feel or want." -Robert Greene
"It is in fact the height of selfishness to merely consume what others create and to retreat into a shell of limited goals and immediate pleasures." -Robert Greene
"You must understand the following: In order to master a field, you must love the subject and feel a profound connection to it. Your interest must transcend the field itself and border on the religious." -Robert Greene
"Desire is both imitative (we like what others like) and competitive (we want to take away from others what they have). As children, we wanted to monopolize the attention of a parent, to draw it away from other siblings. This sense of rivalry... makes people compete for the attention." -Robert Greene
"By acknowledging a petty problem you give it existence and credibility. The more attention you pay an enemy, the stronger you make him; and a small mistake is often made worse and more visible when you try to fix it. It is sometimes best to leave things alone. If there is something you want but cannot have, show contempt for it. The less interest you reveal, the more superior you seem." -Robert Greene
"Fools say that they learn by experience. I prefer to profit by others’ experience." -Robert Greene
"Sadness of any sort is also seductive, particularly if it seems deep-rooted, even spiritual, rather than needy or pathetic—it makes people come to you." -Robert Greene
"Everything that happens to you is a form of instruction if you pay attention." -Robert Greene
"If we experience any failures or setbacks, we do not forget them because they offend our self-esteem. Instead we reflect on them deeply, trying to figure out what went wrong and discern whether there are any patterns to our mistakes." -Robert Greene
"The key to such power is ambiguity. In a society where the roles everyone plays are obvious, the refusal to conform to any standard will excite interest. Be both masculine and feminine, impudent and charming, subtle and outrageous. Let other people worry about being socially acceptable; those types are a dime a dozen, and you are after a power greater than they can imagine." -Robert Greene
"Events in life mean nothing if you do not reflect on them in a deep way, and ideas from books are pointless if they have no application to life as you live it." -Robert Greene
"With our limited senses and consciousness, we only glimpse a small portion of reality. Furthermore, everything in the universe is in a state of constant flux. Simple words and thoughts cannot capture this flux or complexity. The only solution for an enlightened person is to let the mind absorb itself in what it experiences, without having to form a judgment on what it all means. The mind must be able to feel doubt and uncertainty for as long as possible. As it remains in this state and probes deeply into the mysteries of the universe, ideas will come that are more dimensional and real than if we had jumped to conclusions and formed judgments early on." -Robert Greene
"Nothing is stable in the realm of power, and even closest of friends can be transformed into the worst of enemies." -Robert Greene
"Do not wait for a coronation; the greatest emperors crown themselves." -Robert Greene
"You like to imagine yourself in control of your fate, consciously planning the course of your life as best you can. But you are largely unaware of how deeply your emotions dominate you. They make you veer toward ideas that soothe your ego. They make you look for evidence that confirms what you already want to believe. They make you see what you want to see, depending on your mood, and this disconnect from reality is the source of the bad decisions and negative patterns that haunt your life. Rationality is the ability to counteract these emotional effects, to think instead of react, to open your mind to what is really happening, as opposed to what you are feeling. It does not come naturally; it is a power we must cultivate, but in doing so we realize our greatest potential." -Robert Greene
"Power is a game, and in games you do not judge your opponents by their intentions but by the effects of their actions." -Robert Greene
"Hide your intentions not by closing up (with the risk of appearing secretive, and making people suspicious) but by talking endlessly about your desires and goals-just not the real ones." -Robert Greene
"If, for example, you are miserly by nature, you will never go beyond a certain limit; only generous souls attain greatness." -Robert Greene
"Some 2,600 years ago the ancient Greek poet Pindar wrote, 'Become who you are by learning who you are.' What he meant is the following: You are born with a particular makeup and tendencies that mark you as a piece of fate. It is who you are to the core. Some people never become who they are; they stop trusting in themselves; they conform to the tastes of others, and they end up wearing a mask that hides their true nature. If you allow yourself to learn who you really are by paying attention to that voice and force within you, then you can become what you were fated to become—an individual, a Master." -Robert Greene
"The conventional mind is passive - it consumes information and regurgitates it in familiar forms. The dimensional mind is active, transforming everything it digests into something new and original, creating instead of consuming." -Robert Greene
"The passive ironic attitude is not cool or romantic, but pathetic and destructive." -Robert Greene
"Without enemies around us, we grow lazy. An enemy at our heels sharpens our wits, keeping us focused and alert. It is sometimes better, then, to use enemies as enemies rather than transforming them into friends or allies." -Robert Greene
"you must engrave deeply in your mind and never forget: your emotional commitment to what you are doing will be translated into your work. If you go at your work with half a heart, it will show in the lackluster results and in the laggard way in which you reach the end. If you are doing something primarily for money and without a real emotional commitment, it will translate into something that lacks a soul and that has no connection to you. You may not see this, but you can be sure that the public will feel it and that they will receive your work in the same lackluster spirit it was created in. If you are excited and obsessive in the hunt, it will show in the details. If your work comes from a place deep within, its authenticity will be communicated." -Robert Greene
"A man said to a Dervish: 'Why do I not see you more often?' The Dervish replied, 'Because the words ‘Why have you not been to see me?’ are sweeter to my ear than the words ‘Why have you come again?" -Robert Greene
"Long Time. The famous seventeenth-century Ming painter Chou Yung relates a story that altered his behavior forever. Late one winter afternoon he set out to visit a town that lay across the river from his own town. He was bringing some important books and papers with him and had commissioned a young boy to help him carry them. As the ferry neared the other side of the river, Chou Yung asked the boatman if they would have time to get to the town before its gates closed, since it was a mile away and night was approaching. The boatman glanced at the boy, and at the bundle of loosely tied papers and books—'Yes,' he replied, 'if you do not walk too fast.' As they started out, however, the sun was setting. Afraid of being locked out of the town at night, prey to local bandits, Chou and the boy walked faster and faster, finally breaking into a run. Suddenly the string around the papers broke and the documents scattered on the ground. It took them many minutes to put the packet together again, and by the time they had reached the city gates, it was too late. When you force the pace out of fear and impatience, you create a nest of problems that require fixing, and you end up taking much longer than if you had taken your time." -Robert Greene
"A natural response when people feel overwhelmed is to retreat into various forms of passivity. If we don’t try too much in life, if we limit our circle of action, we can give ourselves the illusion of control. The less we attempt, the less chances of failure. If we can make it look like we are not really responsible for our fate, for what happens to us in life, then our apparent powerlessness is more palatable." -Robert Greene
"All masters want to appear more brilliant than other people." -Robert Greene
"The key then to attaining this higher level of intelligence is to make our years of study qualitatively rich. We don't simply absorb information - we internalize it and make it our own by finding some way to put this knowledge to practical use." -Robert Greene
"Never take your position for granted and never let any favors you receive go to your head." -Robert Greene
"Any man who tries to be good all the time is bound to come to ruin among the great number who are not good." -Robert Greene
"DESPISE THE FREE LUNCH JUDGMENT What is offered for free is dangerous-it usually involves either a trick or a hidden obligation. What has worth is worth paying for. By paying your own way you stay clear of gratitude, guilt, and deceit. It is also often wise to pay the full price—there is no cutting corners with excellence. Be lavish with your money and keep it circulating, for generosity is a sign and a magnet for power." -Robert Greene
"All of us have access to a higher form of intelligence, one that can allow us to see more of the world, to anticipate trends, to respond with speed and accuracy to any circumstance. This intelligence is cultivated by deply immersing ourselves in a field of study and staying true to our inclinations, no matter how unconventional our approach might seem to other. Through such intense immersion over many years we come to internalize and gain an intuitive feel with the rational processes, we expand our minds to the outer limits of our potential and are able to see into the secret core of life itself. We then come to have powers that approximate the instinctive force and speed of animals, but with the added reach that our human consciousness brings us. This power is what our brains are designed to attain, and we will naturally led to this type of intelligence if we follow our inclinations to their ultimate ends." -Robert Greene
"It is your own bad strategies, not the unfair opponent, that are to blame for your failures. You are responsible for the good and bad in your life." -Robert Greene
"The Shadow. It cannot be grasped. Chase your shadow and it will, flee; turn your back on it and it will follow you. It is also a person’s dark side, the thing that makes them mysterious. After they have given us pleasure, the shadow of their withdrawal makes us yearn for their return, much as clouds make us yearn for the sun." -Robert Greene
"if no resistances or obstacles face you, you must create them. No seduction can proceed without them." -Robert Greene
"Most people are perpetually locked in the present. Their decisions are overly influenced by the most immediate event; they easily become emotional and ascribe greater significance to a problem than it should have in reality." -Robert Greene
"It is not much good being wise among fools and sane among lunatics." -Robert Greene
"Just imagine for a day that you do not know anything, that what you believe could be completely false. Let go of your preconceptions and even your most cherished beliefs. Experiment. Force yourself to hold the opposite opinion or see the world through your enemy’s eyes. Listen to the people around you with more attentiveness. See everything as a source for education—even the most banal encounters. Imagine that the world is still full of mystery." -Robert Greene
"Never argue. In society nothing must be discussed; give only results. (Benjamin Disraeli, 1804–1881)" -Robert Greene
"What does it matter if another player, your friend or rival, intended good things and had only your interests at heart, if the effects of his action lead to so much ruin and confusion? It is only natural for people to cover up their actions with all kinds of justifications, always assuming that they have acted out of goodness. You must learn to inwardly laugh each time you hear this and never get caught up in gauging someone’s intentions and actions through a set of moral judgments that are really an excuse for the accumulation of power." -Robert Greene
"You cannot repress anger or love, or avoid feeling them, and you should not try." -Robert Greene
"If you come across any special trait of meanness or stupidity . . . you must be careful not to let it annoy or distress you, but to look upon it merely as an addition to your knowledge—a new fact to be considered in studying the character of humanity. Your attitude towards it will be that of the mineralogist who stumbles upon a very characteristic specimen of a mineral. —Arthur Schopenhauer" -Robert Greene
"Our natural tendency is to project onto other people our own belief and value systems, in ways in which we are not even aware." -Robert Greene
"Understand: your mind is weaker than your emotions. But you become aware of this weakness only in moments of adversity--precisely the time whenyou need strength. What best equips you to cope with tthe heat of battle is neither more knowledge nor more intellect. What makes your mind stronger, and more able to control your emotions, is internal discipline and toughness.No one can teach you this skill; you cannot learn it by reading about it. Like any discipline, it can come only through practice, experience, even a little suffering. The first step in building up presence of mind is to see the need for ii -- to want it badly enough to be willing to work for it." -Robert Greene
"The truth is that creative activity is one that involves the entire self - our emotions, our levels of energy, our characters, and our minds." -Robert Greene
"Everyone admires the bold; no one honors the timid." -Robert Greene
"LAW 9 WIN THROUGH YOUR ACTIONS, NEVER THROUGH ARGUMENT JUDGMENT Any momentary triumph you think you have gained through argument is really a Pyrrhic victory: The resentment and ill will you stir up is stronger and lasts longer than any momentary change of opinion. It is much more powerful to get others to agree with you through your actions, without saying a word. Demonstrate, do not explicate." -Robert Greene
"Your greatest power in seduction is your ability to turn away, to make others come after you, delaying their satisfaction." -Robert Greene
"Sometimes any emotion is better than the boredom of security." -Robert Greene
"The problem is that we humans are deep conformists." -Robert Greene
"Religion humanizes this universe, makes us feel important and loved. We are not animals governed by uncontrollable drives, animals that die for no apparent reason, but creatures made in the image of supreme being" -Robert Greene
"Too often we make a separation in our lives—there is work and there is life outside work, where we find real pleasure and fulfillment. Work is often seen as a means for making money so we can enjoy that second life that we lead. Even if we derive some satisfaction from our careers we still tend to compartmentalize our lives in this way. This is a depressing attitude, because in the end we spend a substantial part of our waking life at work. If we experience this time as something to get through on the way to real pleasure, then our hours at work represent a tragic waste of the short time we have to live." -Robert Greene
"But the greatest battle of all is with yourself—your weaknesses, your emotions, your lack of resolution in seeing things through to the end. You must declare unceasing war on yourself." -Robert Greene
"There is almost a touch of condescension in the act of hiring friends that secretly afflicts them. The injury will come out slowly: A little more honesty, flashes of resentment and envy here and there, and before you know it your friendship fades. The more favors and gifts you supply to revive the friendship, the less gratitude you receive." -Robert Greene
"As Gracián said, 'The truth is generally seen, rarely heard." -Robert Greene
"You must avoid at all cost the idea that you can manage learning several skills at a time. You need to develop your powers of concentration, and understand that trying to multitask will be the death of the process." -Robert Greene
"There is a popular saying in Japan that goes 'Tada yori takai mono wa nai,' meaning: 'Nothing is more costly than something given free of charge.' THE UNSPOKEN WAY, MICHIHIRO MATSUMOTO, 1988" -Robert Greene
"[M]any believe that by being honest and open they are winning people’s hearts and showing their good nature.They are greatly deluded. Honesty is actually a blunt instrument, which bloodies more than it cuts. Your honesty is likely to offend people; it is much more prudent to tailor your words, telling people what they want to hear rather than the coarse and ugly truth of what you feel or think. More important, by being unabashedly open you make yourself so predictable and familiar that it is almost impossible to respect or fear you, and power will not accrue to a person who cannot inspire such emotions." -Robert Greene
"those who make a show or display of innocence are the least innocent of all." -Robert Greene
"Those qualities that separate us are often ridiculed by others or criticized by teachers. Because of these judgments, we might see our strengths as disabilities and try to work around them in order to fit in. But anything that is peculiar to our makeup is precisely what we must pay the deepest attention to and lean on in our rise to mastery." -Robert Greene
"Too much respect for other people's wisdom will make you depreciate your own." -Robert Greene
"The real poetry and beauty in life comes from an intense relationship with reality in all its aspects. Realism is in fact the ideal we must aspire to, the highest point of human rationality." -Robert Greene
"Religion is the great balm of existence because it takes us outside ourselves, connects us to something larger" -Robert Greene
"Everything in life can be taken away from you and generally will be at some point. Your wealth vanishes, the latest gadgetry suddenly becomes passé, your allies desert you. But if your mind is armed with the art of war, there is no power that can take that away. In the middle of a crisis, your mind will find its way to the right solution. Having superior strategies at your fingertips will give your maneuvers irresistible force. As Sun-tzu says, 'Being unconquerable lies with yourself." -Robert Greene
"The Tiny Wound.     It is small but painful and irritating. You try all sorts of medicaments, you com- plain, you scratch and pick at the scab. Doctors only make it worse, transforming the tiny wound into a grave matter. If only you had left the wound alone, letting time heal it and freeing yourself of worry." -Robert Greene
"JUDGMENT Be wary of friends—they will betray you more quickly, for they are easily aroused to envy. They also become spoiled and tyrannical. But hire a former enemy and he will be more loyal than a friend, because he has more to prove. In fact, you have more to fear from friends than from enemies. If you have no enemies, find a way to make them." -Robert Greene
"Learn to destroy your enemies by opening holes in their own reputations. Then stand aside and let public opinion hang them." -Robert Greene
"Any titles, money, or privilege you inherit are actually hindrances. They delude you into believing you are owed respect." -Robert Greene
"Man will only become better when you make him see what he is like. —Anton Chekhov" -Robert Greene
"Let us call this quality the Original Mind. This mind looked at the world more directly—not through words and received ideas. It was flexible and receptive to new information. Retaining a memory of this Original Mind, we cannot help but feel nostalgia for the intensity with which we used to experience the world. As the years pass, this intensity inevitably diminishes. We come to see the world through a screen of words and opinions; our prior experiences, layered over the present, color what we see. We no longer look at things as they are, noticing their details, or wonder why they exist. Our minds gradually tighten up. We become defensive about the world we now take for granted, and we become upset if our beliefs or assumptions are attacked." -Robert Greene
"When you have success, be extra wary. When you are angry, take no action. When you are fearful, know you are going to exaggerate the dangers you face." -Robert Greene
"It is natural to want to employ your friends when you find yourself in times of need. The world is a harsh place, and your friends soften the harshness. Besides, you know them. Why depend on a stranger when you have a friend at hand? Men are more ready to repay an injury than a benefit, because gratitude is a burden and revenge a pleasure. TACITUS, c. A.D. 55-120 The problem is that you often do not know your friends as well as you imagine. Friends often agree on things in order to avoid an argument. They cover up their unpleasant qualities so as to not offend each other. They laugh extra hard at each other’s jokes. Since honesty rarely strengthens friendship, you may never know how a friend truly feels. Friends will say that they love your poetry, adore your music, envy your taste in clothes—maybe they mean it, often they do not. When you decide to hire a friend, you gradually discover the qualities he or she has kept hidden. Strangely enough, it is your act of kindness that unbalances everything. People want to feel they deserve their good fortune. The receipt of a favor can become oppressive: It means you have been chosen because you are a friend, not necessarily because you are deserving. There is almost a touch of condescension in the act of hiring friends that secretly afflicts them. The injury will come out slowly: A little more honesty, flashes of resentment and envy here and there, and before you know it your friendship fades. The more favors and gifts you supply to revive the friendship, the less gratitude you receive. Ingratitude has a long and deep history. It has demonstrated its powers for so many centuries, that it is truly amazing that people continue to underestimate them. Better to be wary. If you never expect gratitude from a friend, you will be pleasantly surprised when they do prove grateful. The problem with using or hiring friends is that it will inevitably limit your power. The friend is rarely the one who is most able to help you; and in the end, skill and competence are far more important than friendly feelings." -Robert Greene
"Do not commit yourself to anybody or anything, for that is to be a slave, a slave to every man.... Above all, keep yourself free of commitments and obligations—they are the device of another to get you into his power.... (Baltasar Gracián, 1601-1658) PART" -Robert Greene
"A man grows bored with a woman, no matter how beautiful; he yearns for different pleasures, and for adventure." -Robert Greene
"True ownership can come only from within. It comes from a disdain for anything or anybody that impinges upon your mobility, from a confidence in your own decisions, and from the use of your time in constant pursuit of education and improvement." -Robert Greene
"Louis XI (1423-1483), the great Spider King of France, had a weakness for astrology. He kept a court astrologer whom he admired, until one day the man predicted that a lady of the court would die within eight days. When the prophecy came true, Louis was terrified, thinking that either the man had murdered the woman to prove his accuracy or that he was so versed in his science that his powers threatened Louis himself. In either case he had to be killed. One evening Louis summoned the astrologer to his room, high in the castle. Before the man arrived, the king told his servants that when he gave the signal they were to pick the astrologer up, carry him to the window, and hurl him to the ground, hundreds of feet below. The astrologer soon arrived, but before giving the signal, Louis decided to ask him one last question: 'You claim to understand astrology and to know the fate of others, so tell me what your fate will be and how long you have to live.' 'I shall die just three days before Your Majesty,' the astrologer replied. The king’s signal was never given. The man’s life was spared. The Spider King not only protected his astrologer for as long as he was alive, he lavished him with gifts and had him tended by the finest court doctors. The astrologer survived Louis by several years, disproving his power of prophecy but proving his mastery of power." -Robert Greene
"Learn the lesson: Once the words are out, you cannot take them back. Keep them under control. Be particularly careful with sarcasm: The momentary satisfaction you gain with your biting words will be outweighed by the price you pay." -Robert Greene
"Learn to question yourself: Why this anger or resentment? Where does this incessant need for attention come from? Under such scrutiny, your emotions will lose their hold on you. You will begin to think for yourself instead of reacting to what others give you." -Robert Greene
"You must be the mirror, training your mind to try to see yourself as others see you." -Robert Greene
"If you view everything through the lens of fear, then you tend to stay in retreat mode. You can just as easily see a crises or problem as a challenge, an opportunity to prove your mettle, the chance to strengthen and toughen yourself, or a call to collective action. By seeing it as a challenge, you will have converted this negative into a positive purely by a mental process that will result in positive action as well. " -Robert Greene
"The mighty lion toys with the mouse that crosses his path—any other reaction would mar his fearsome reputation." -Robert Greene
"Most people don't have the patience to absorb their minds in the fine points and minutiae that are intrinsically part of their work. They are in a hurry to create effects and make a splash; they think in large brush strokes. Their work inevitably reveals their lack of attention to detail - it doesn't connect deeply with the public, and it feels flimsy." -Robert Greene
"Men are more ready to repay an injury than a benefit, because gratitude is a burden and revenge a pleasure. TACITUS, c. A.D. 55-120" -Robert Greene
"The people around you are generally mysterious. You are never quite sure about their intentions. They present an appearance that is often deceptive—their manipulative actions don’t match their lofty words or promises. All of this can prove confusing. Seeing people as they are, instead of what you think they should be, would mean having a greater sense of their motives." -Robert Greene
"Image: An Oak Tree. The oak that resists the wind loses its branches one by one, and with nothing left to protect it, the trunk fi nally snaps. The oak that bends lives long er, its trunk grow ing wider, its roots deeper and more tenacious." -Robert Greene
"Learn to use the knowledge of the past and you will look like a genius, even when you are really just a clever borrower." -Robert Greene
"According to Freud (who was speaking from experience, since he was his mother’s darling), spoiled children have a confidence that stays with them all their lives." -Robert Greene
"Never appear overly greedy for attention, then, for it signals insecurity, and insecurity drives power away. Understand that there are times when it is not in your interest to be the center of attention. When in the presence of a king or queen, for instance, or the equivalent thereof, bow and retreat to the shadows; never compete." -Robert Greene
"As Abraham Lincoln said, 'I don’t like that man. I must get to know him better." -Robert Greene
"At your birth a seed is planted. That seed is your uniqueness. It wants to grow, transform itself, and flower to its full potential. It has a natural, assertive energy to it. Your Life's Task is to bring that seed to flower, to express your uniqueness through your work. You have a destiny to fulfill. The stronger you feel and maintain it--as a force, a voice or in whatever form-- the greater your chance of fulfilling this Life's Task and achieving mastery." -Robert Greene
"To the extent that we believe we can skip steps, avoid the process, magically gain power through political connections or easy formulas, or depend on our natural talents, we move against this grain and reverse our natural powers. We become slaves to time – as it passes, we grow weaker, less capable, trapped in some dead end career. We become captive to the opinions and fears of others.' (9) 'This intense connection and desires allows them to withstand the pain of the process – the self-doubts, the tedious hours of practice and study, the inevitable setbacks, the endless barbs from the envious. They develop a resiliency and confidence that others lack." -Robert Greene
"person who cannot control his words shows that he cannot control himself," -Robert Greene
"If you lead the sucker down a familiar path, he won't catch on when you lead him into a trap." -Robert Greene
"Think of the mind as a river: the faster it flows, the better it keeps up with the present and responds to change. The faster it flows, also the more it refreshes itself and the greater its energy. Obsessional thoughts, past experiences (whether traumas orsuccesses), and preconceived notions are like boulders or mud in this river, settling and hardeningthere and damming it up. The river stops moving; stagnation sets in. You must wage constant war on this tendency in the mind." -Robert Greene
"We want to learn the lesson and not repeat the experience. But in truth, we do not like to look too closely at what we did; our introspection is limited. Our natural response is to blame others, circumstances, or a momentary lapse of judgment." -Robert Greene
"The dreamers, those who misread the actual state of affairs and act upon their emotions, are often the source of the greatest mistakes in history—the wars that are not thought out, the disasters that are not foreseen" -Robert Greene
"It takes great talent and skill to conceal one’s talent and skill. LA ROCHEFOUCAULD, 1613–1680 Halliwell" -Robert Greene
"In our culture we tend to equate thinking and intellectual powers with success and achievement. In many ways, however, it is an emotional quality that separates those who master a field from the many who simply work at a job. Our levels of desire, patience, persistence, and confidence end up playing a much larger role in success than sheer reasoning powers. Feeling motivated and energized, we can overcome almost anything. Feeling bored and restless, our minds shut off and we become increasingly passive." -Robert Greene
"Be a flame of positive emotions and you will never be without a friend." -Robert Greene
"Learn to move fast and adapt or you will be eaten. The best way to avoid this fate is to assume formlessness. No predator alive can attack what it cannot see. OBSERVANCE" -Robert Greene
"Fear is the oldest and strongest emotion known to man, something deeply inscribed in our nervous system and subconscious. Over time, however, something strange began to happen. The actual terrors that we faced began to lessen in intensity as we gained increasing control over our environment. But instead of our fears lessening a well, they began to multiply in number. We started to worry about our status in society- whether people liked us, or how we fit into the group. We became anxious for our livelihoods, the future of our families and children, our personal health, and the aging process. Instead of a simple, intense fear of something powerful and real, we developed a kind of generalized anxiety. " -Robert Greene
"Everything is judged by its appearance; what is unseen counts for nothing. Never let yourself get lost in the crowd, then, or buried in oblivion. Stand out. Be conspicuous, at all cost. Make yourself a magnet of attention by appearing larger, more colorful, more mysterious than the bland and timid masses." -Robert Greene
"Not to become someone else, but to be more thoroughly yourself." -Robert Greene
"Never waste valuable time or mental peace of mind on the affairs of others - that is too high a price to pay." -Robert Greene
"Those who seek to achieve things should show no mercy. Kautilya, Indian philosopher third century B.C. OBSERVANCE" -Robert Greene
"it is a curse to have everything go right on your first attempt." -Robert Greene
"Your mind is the starting point of all war and all strategy. A mind that is easily overwhelmed by emotion, that is rooted in the past instead of the present, that cannot see the world with clarity and urgency, will create strategies that will always miss the mark." -Robert Greene
"But the human tongue is a beast that few can master. It strains constantly to break out of its cage, and if it is not tamed, it will run wild and cause you grief. Power cannot accrue to those who squander their treasure of words." -Robert Greene
"Creativity is a combination of discipline and childlike spirit." -Robert Greene
"Sometimes, however, it is better to take risks and play the most capricious, unpredictable move." -Robert Greene
"Fear creates its own self-fulfilling dynamic- as people give into it, they lose energy and momentum. Their lack of confidence translates into inaction that lowers confidence levels even further, on and on." -Robert Greene
"When you turn your back on someone, they come running after you." -Robert Greene
"I give my mind the liberty to follow the first wise or foolish idea that presents itself," -Robert Greene
"The most important of these skills, and power’s crucial foundation, is the ability to master your emotions. An emotional response to a situation is the single greatest barrier to power, a mistake that will cost you a lot more than any temporary satisfaction you might gain by expressing your feelings." -Robert Greene
"There are many paths to mastery, and if you are persistent you will certainly find one that suits you. But a key component in the process is determining your mental and psychological strengths and working with them.To rise to the level of mastery requires many hours of dedicated focus and practice. You cannot get there if your work brings you no joy and you are constantly struggling to overcome your own weaknesses.You must look deep within and come to an understanding of these particular strengths and weaknesses you possess, being as realistic as possible. Knowing your strengths you can lean on them with utmost intensity. Once you start in this direction, you will gain momentum. You will not be burdened by conventions and you will not be slowed down by having to deal with skills that go against your inclinations and strengths. In this way, your creative and intuitive powers will be naturally awakened." -Robert Greene
"With such a deep rooted interest you can withstand the setbacks and failures, the days of drudgery, and the hard work that are always a part of any creative action. You can ignore the doubters and critics. You will then feel personally committed to solving the problem and will not rest until you do so." -Robert Greene
"The vast majority of people conform to whatever is normal for the time." -Robert Greene
"Don’t think about why you question, simply don’t stop questioning. Don’t worry about what you can’t answer, and don’t try to explain what you can’t know. Curiosity is its own reason. Aren’t you in awe when you contemplate the mysteries of eternity, of life, of the marvelous structure behind reality? And this is the miracle of the human mind—to use its constructions, concepts, and formulas as tools to explain what man sees, feels and touches. Try to comprehend a little more each day. Have holy curiosity. —ALBERT EINSTEIN" -Robert Greene
"who can you trust?" -Robert Greene
"Our successes and failures in life can be traced to how well or how badly we deal with the inevitable conflicts that confront us in society." -Robert Greene
"A bold act requires a high degree of confidence. People who are the targets of an audacious act, or who witness it, cannot help but believe that such confidence is real and justified. They respond instinctively by backing up, by getting out of the way, or by following the confident person. A bold act can put people on their heels and eliminate obstacles. In this way, it creates its own favorable circumstances. " -Robert Greene
"USE SELECTIVE HONESTY AND GENEROSITY TO DISARM YOUR VICTIM JUDGMENT One sincere and honest move will cover over dozens of dishonest ones. Open-hearted gestures of honesty and generosity bring down the guard of even the most suspicious people. Once your selective honesty opens a hole in their armor, you can deceive and manipulate them at will. A timely gift—a Trojan horse—will serve the same purpose." -Robert Greene
"real action and true helpfulness are perhaps the ultimate charm." -Robert Greene
"If you allow yourself to learn who you really are by paying attention to that voice and force within you, then you can become what you were fated to become—an individual, a Master." -Robert Greene
"Try to persuade a person by appealing to their consciousness, by saying outright what you want, by showing all your cards, and what hope do you have? You are just one more irritation to be tuned out." -Robert Greene
"In a speech Abraham Lincoln delivered at the height of the Civil War, he referred to the Southerners as fellow human beings who were in error. An elderly lady chastised him for not calling them irreconcilable enemies who must be destroyed. 'Why, madam,' Lincoln replied, 'do I not destroy my enemies when I make them my friends?" -Robert Greene
"If the world is like a giant scheming court and we are trapped inside it, there is no use in trying to opt out of the game. That will only render you powerless, and powerlessness will make you miserable. Instead of struggling against the inevitable, instead of arguing and whining and feeling guilty, it is far better to excel at power. In fact, the better you are at dealing with power, the better friend, lover, husband, wife, and person you become." -Robert Greene
"Hesitation creates gaps. Boldness obliterates them." -Robert Greene
"What if we could find out what causes us to lie about who we are, or to inadvertently push people away?" -Robert Greene
"Seduction is a game of psychology, not beauty, and it is within the grasp of any person to become a master at the game. All that is required is that you look at the world" -Robert Greene
"It was only by escaping into the desert that Moses and the Jews were able to solidify their identity and reemerge as a social and political force.Jesus spent his forty days in the wilderness, and Mohammed, too, fled Mecca at a time of great peril for a period of retreat. He and just a handful of his most devoted supporters used this period to deepen their bonds, to understand who they were and what they stood for, to let time work its good. Then this little band of believers reemerged to conquer Mecca and the Arabian Peninsula and later, after Mohammed's death, to defeat the Byzantines and the Persian empire, spreading Islam over vast territories. Around the world every mythology has a hero who retreats, even to Hades itself in the case of Odysseus, to find himself." -Robert Greene
"Understand: your mind is weaker than your emotions. But you become aware of this weakness only in moments of adversity--precisely the time whenyou need strength. What best equips you to cope with tthe heat of battle is neither more knowledge nor moreintellect. What makes your mind stronger, and moreable to control your emotions, is internal disciplineand toughness.No one can teach you this skill; you cannot learn it by reading about it. Like any discipline, it can come only through practice, experience, even a little suffering." -Robert Greene
"Anger is the most destructive of emotional responses, for it clouds your vision the most." -Robert Greene
"Understanding the world too well, you see too many options and become as indecisive as Hamlet.No matter how far we progress, we remain part animal, and it is the animal in us that fires our strategies, gives them life, animates us to fight. Without the desire to fight, without a capacity for the violence war churns up, we cannot deal with danger.The prudent Odysseus types are comfortable with both sides of their nature. They plan ahead as best they can, see far and wide, but when it comes time to move ahead, they move. Knowing how to control your emotions means not repressing them completely but using them to their best effect." -Robert Greene
"Our continual connection to social media makes us prone to new forms of viral emotional effects. These are not media designed for calm reflection." -Robert Greene
"It is time to reverse this prejudice against conscious effort and to see the powers we gain through practice and discipline as eminently inspiring and even miraculous." -Robert Greene
"Understand this: The world wants to assign you a role in life. And once you accept that role you are doomed. Your" -Robert Greene
"You can recognize deep narcissists by the following behavior patterns: If they are ever insulted or challenged, they have no defense, nothing internal to soothe them or validate their worth. They generally react with great rage, thirsting for vengeance, full of a sense of righteousness. This is the only way they know how to assuage their insecurities. In such battles, they will position themselves as the wounded victim, confusing others and even drawing sympathy. They are prickly and oversensitive. Almost everything is taken personally. They can become quite paranoid and have enemies in all directions to point to." -Robert Greene
"Perhaps you are not trying to whip a crowd into a frenzy; you just want to bring people over to your side. Choose your strategy and words carefully. You might think it is better to reason with people, explain your ideas. But it is hard for an audience to decide whether an argument is reasonable as they listen to you talk. They have to concentrate and listen closely, which requires great effort. People are easily distracted by other stimuli, and if they miss a part of your argument, they will feel confused, intellectually inferior, and vaguely insecure. It is more persuasive to appeal to people’s hearts than their heads. Everyone shares emotions, and no one feels inferior to a speaker who stirs up their feelings. The crowd bonds together, everyone contagiously experiencing the same emotions." -Robert Greene
"Such is the fate, in some form or other, of all those who unbalance the master’s sense of self, poke holes in his vanity, or make him doubt his pre-eminence." -Robert Greene
"For what the leaders are, that, as a rule, will the men below them be. —Xenophon (430?–355? B.C.)" -Robert Greene
"As Nietzsche wrote, 'The value of a thing sometimes lies not in what one attains with it, but in what one pays for it—what it costs us.' Perhaps you will attain your goal, and a worthy goal at that, but at what price? Apply this standard to everything, including whether to collaborate with other people or come to their aid. In the end, life is short, opportunities are few, and you have only so much energy to draw on. And in this sense time is as important a consideration as any other. Never waste valuable time, or mental peace of mind, on the affairs of others—that is too high a price to pay. Power" -Robert Greene
"Chance favors only the prepared mind." -Robert Greene
"If everything in a dream were realistic, it would have no power over us; if everything were unreal, we would feel less involved in its pleasures and fears. Its fusion of the two is what makes it haunting." -Robert Greene
"The only means to gain one’s ends with people are force and cunning. Love also, they say; but that is to wait for sunshine, and life needs every moment. JOHANN VON GOETHE, 1749-1832" -Robert Greene
"They all overvalued the importance of stability." -Robert Greene
"Men do not understand how women think, and vice versa; each tries to make the other act more like a member of their own sex." -Robert Greene
"The human mind is naturally creative, constantly looking to make associations and connections between things and ideas. It wants to explore, to discover new aspects of the world, and to invent. To express this creative force is our greatest desire, and the stifling of it the source of our misery. What kills the creative force is not age or a lack of talent, but our own spirit, our own attitude. We become too comfortable with the knowledge we have gained in our apprenticeships. We grow afraid of entertaining new ideas and the effort that this requires. to think more flexibly entails a risk-we could fail and be ridiculed. We prefer to live with familiar ideas and habits of thinking, but we pay a steep price for this: our minds go dead from the lack of challenge and novelty; we reach a limit in our field and lose control over our fate because we become replaceable." -Robert Greene
"At certain points in history it may be fashionable to be different and rebellious, but if a lot of people are playing that role, there is nothing different or rebellious about it." -Robert Greene
"To have a good enemy, choose a friend: He knows where to strike. DIANF DE POITIERS, 1499-1566, MISTRESS OF HENRI II OF FRANCE" -Robert Greene
"If you come across any special trait of meanness or stupidity … you must be careful not to let it annoy or distress you, but to look upon it merely as an addition to your knowledge—a new fact to be considered in studying the character of humanity. Your attitude towards it will be that of the mineralogist who stumbles upon a very characteristic specimen of a mineral. —Arthur Schopenhauer" -Robert Greene
"When the snipe and the mussel struggle, the fisherman gets the benefit. Ancient Chinese saying" -Robert Greene
"What excites me about America is its social mobility, people continually rising from the bottom to the top and altering the culture in the process. On another level, however, we remain a nation that lives in social ghettos. Celebrities generally congregate around other celebrities; academics and intellectuals are cloistered in their worlds; people like to associate with those of their kind. If we leave these narrow worlds, it is usually as an observer of another way of life." -Robert Greene
"Still uncertain as to our identity, we think that what matters in the work world is gaining attention and making friends. And these misconceptions and naïveté are brutally exposed in the light of the real world." -Robert Greene
"So much of power is not what you do but what you do not do—the rash and foolish actions that you refrain from before they get you into trouble." -Robert Greene
"Selfishness is one of the qualities apt to inspire love. —NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE" -Robert Greene
"What draws attention draws power" -Robert Greene
"Never pick a fight with someone you're not sure you can defeat." -Robert Greene
"The Athenians were one of the most eminently practical people in history, and they made the most practical argument they could with the Melians: When you are weaker, there is nothing to be gained by fighting a useless fight. No one comes to help the weak—by doing so they would only put themselves in jeopardy. The weak are alone and must submit. Fighting gives you nothing to gain but martyrdom, and in the process a lot of people who do not believe in your cause will die." -Robert Greene
"In following your inclinations and moving toward mastery, you make a great contribution to society, enriching it with discoveries and insights, and making the most of the diversity in nature and among human society." -Robert Greene
"We are all self-absorbed, locked in our own worlds. It is a therapeutic and liberating experience to be drawn outside ourselves and into the world of another." -Robert Greene
"Absence diminishes minor passions and inflames great ones, as the wind douses a candle and fans a fire. La Rochefoucauld, 1613-1680 OBSERVANCE" -Robert Greene
"Power is essentially amoral and one of the most important skills to acquire is the ability to see circumstances rather than good or evil. Power is a game—this cannot be repeated too often—and in games you do not judge your opponents by their intentions but by the effect of their actions." -Robert Greene
"little about your work, tease and titillate with alluring, even contradictory comments, then stand back and let others try to make sense of it all." -Robert Greene
"There are very few men—and they are the exceptions—who are able to think and feel beyond the present moment.   CARL VON CLAUSEWITZ, 1780-1831" -Robert Greene
"You are like a hunter: your knowledge of every detail of the forest and of the ecosystem as a whole will give you many more options for survival and success." -Robert Greene
"The key to staying unintimidated is to convince yourself that the person you're facing is a mere mortal, no different from you-- which is in fact the truth. See the person, not the myth. Imagine him or her as a child, as someone riddled with insecurities. Cutting the other person down to size will help your keep your mental balance." -Robert Greene
"Creative Endeavors are by their nature uncertain." -Robert Greene
"Your days are numbered. Will you pass them half awake and halfhearted or will you live with a sense of urgency?" -Robert Greene
"In the end, the money and success that truly last come not to those who focus on such things as goals, but rather to those who focus on mastery and fulfilling their Life’s Task." -Robert Greene
"Eventually, you will hit upon a particular field, niche, or opportunity that suits you perfectly. You will recognize it when you find it because it will spark that childlike sense of wonder and excitement; it will feel right. Once found, everything will fall into place. You will learn more quickly and more deeply . your skills level will reach a point where you will be able to claim your independence from within the group you work for and move out on your own. you will determine your circumstances. As your own Master, you will no longer be subject to the whims of tyrannical bosses or scheming peers." -Robert Greene
"Most of us live in a semi-somnambulistic state: we do our daily tasks and the days fly by. The two exceptions to this are childhood and those moments when we are in love. In both cases, our emotions are more engaged, more open and active. And we equate feeling emotional with feeling more alive." -Robert Greene
"The mind must not wander from goal to goal, or be distracted by success from its sense of purpose and proportion." -Robert Greene
"If you are observing someone you naturally dislike, or who reminds you of someone unpleasant in your past, you will tend to see almost any cue as unfriendly or hostile. You will do the opposite for people you like. In these exercises you must strive to subtract your personal preferences and prejudices about people." -Robert Greene
"Intellect is a magnitude of intensity, not a magnitude of extensity." -Robert Greene
"Impatience, on the other hand, only makes you look weak. It is a principal impediment to power. Power" -Robert Greene
"You must allow everyone the right to exist in accordance with the character he has, whatever it turns out to be: and all you should strive to do is to make use of this character in such a way as its kind of nature permits, rather than to hope for any alteration in it, or to condemn it offhand for what it is. This is the true sense of the maxim—Live and let live…. To become indignant at [people’s] conduct is as foolish as to be angry with a stone because it rolls into your path. And with many people the wisest thing you can do, is to resolve to make use of those whom you cannot alter. —ARTHUR SCHOPENHAUER" -Robert Greene
"Forgetting our objectives. —During the journey we commonly forget its goal. Almost every profession is chosen and commenced as a means to an end but continued as an end in itself. Forgetting our objectives is the most frequent of all acts of stupidity. FRIEDRICH NIETZSCHE, 1844" -Robert Greene
"Remember: the greatest danger you face in the world today is that you are replaceable. As you get older, people who are younger, cheaper and more in tune with trends are rising up and threatening your position. Your only salvation is to mine your uniqueness, to combine various skills that set you apart. No one can do what you do. That is your endgame." -Robert Greene
"skill and competence are far more important than friendly feelings." -Robert Greene
"Do not think that what is hard for you to master is humanly impossible; and if it is humanly possible, consider it to be within your reach. —MARCUS AURELIUS" -Robert Greene
"we tend to think of our behavior as largely conscious and willed. To imagine that we are not always in control of what we do is a frightening thought, but in fact it is the reality." -Robert Greene
"the goal of an apprenticeship is not money, a good position, a title, or a diploma, but rather the transformation of your mind and character—the first transformation on the way to mastery. You enter a career as an outsider. You are naïve and full of misconceptions about this new world. Your head is full of dreams and fantasies about the future. Your knowledge of the world is subjective, based on emotions, insecurities, and limited experience. Slowly, you will ground yourself in reality, in the objective world represented by the knowledge and skills that make people successful in it. You will learn how to work with others and handle criticism. In the process you will transform yourself from someone who is impatient and scattered into someone who is disciplined and focused, with a mind that can handle complexity. In the end, you will master yourself and all of your weaknesses." -Robert Greene
"In 1817 the twenty-two-year-old poet John Keats wrote a letter to his brothers in which he explained his most recent thoughts on the creative process. The world around us, he wrote, is far more complex than we can possibly imagine. With our limited senses and consciousness, we only glimpse a small portion of reality. Furthermore, everything in the universe is in a state of constant flux. Simple words and thoughts cannot capture this flux or complexity. The only solution for an enlightened person is to let the mind absorb itself in what it experiences, without having to form a judgment on what it all means. The mind must be able to feel doubt and uncertainty for as long as possible. As it remains in this state and probes deeply into the mysteries of the universe, ideas will come that are more dimensional and real than if we had jumped to conclusions and formed judgments early on. To accomplish this, he wrote, we must be capable of negating our ego. We are by nature fearful and insecure creatures. We do not like what is unfamiliar or unknown. To compensate for this, we assert ourselves with opinions and ideas that make us seem strong and certain. Many of these opinions do not come from our own deep reflection, but are instead based on what other people think. Furthermore, once we hold these ideas, to admit they are wrong is to wound our ego and vanity. Truly creative people in all fields can temporarily suspend their ego and simply experience what they are seeing, without the need to assert a judgment, for as long as possible. They are more than ready to find their most cherished opinions contradicted by reality." -Robert Greene
"As Xenophon said, your obstacles are not rivers or mountains or other people; your obstacle is yourself. If you feel lost and confused, if you lose your sense of direction, if you cannot tell the difference between friend and foe, you have only yourself to blame." -Robert Greene
"We see people not as they are, but as they appear to us. And these appearances are usually misleading." -Robert Greene
"the goal of an apprenticeship is not money, a good position, a title, or a diploma, but rather the transformation of your mind and character—the first transformation on the way to mastery. You enter a career as an outsider. You are naïve and full of misconceptions about this new world. Your head is full of dreams and fantasies about the future. Your knowledge of the world is subjective, based on emotions, insecurities, and limited experience. Slowly, you will ground yourself in reality, in the objective world represented by the knowledge and skills that make people successful in it. You will learn how to work with others and handle criticism. In the process you will transform yourself from someone who is impatient and scattered into someone who is disciplined and focused, with a mind that can handle complexity. In the end, you will master yourself and all of your weaknesses." -Robert Greene
"Understand: we live in the world of a sad separation that began some five hundred years ago when art and science split apart." -Robert Greene
"Life has more meaning in the face of Death." -Robert Greene
"Space we can recover, time never. Napoleon Bonaparte, 1769-1821" -Robert Greene
"Emotions cloud reason, and if you cannot see the situation clearly, you cannot prepare for and respond to it with any degree of control. Anger" -Robert Greene
"Without a worthy opponent a man or group cannot grow stronger." -Robert Greene
"The need for certainty is the greatest disease the mind faces." -Robert Greene
"Power rarely ends up in the hands of those who start a revolution, or even of those who further it; power sticks to those who bring it to a conclusion." -Robert Greene
"Remember: The paranoid and wary are often the easiest to deceive. Win their trust in one area and you have a smoke screen that blinds their view in another, letting you creep up and level them with a devastating blow." -Robert Greene
"In the course of your life you will be continually encountering fools. There are simply too many to avoid.We can classify people as fools by the following rubric: when it comes to practical life, what should matter is getting long term results, and getting the work done in as efficient and creative a manner as possible.That should be the supreme value that guides people’s action. But fools carry with them a different scale of values.They place more importance on short-term matters – grabbing immediate money, getting attention from the public or media, and looking good. They are ruled by their ego and insecurities.They tend to enjoy drama and political intrigue for their own sake. When they criticize, they always emphasize matters that are irrelevant to the overall picture or argument.They are more interested in their career and position than in the truth. You can distinguish them by how little they get done, or by how hard they make it for others to get results.They lack a certain common sense, getting worked up about things that are not really important while ignoring problems that will spell doom in the long term.The natural tendency with fools is to lower yourself to their level.They annoy you, get under your skin, and draw you into a battle.In the process, you feel petty and confused. You lose a sense of what is really important.You can’t win an argument or get them to see your side or change their behavior, because rationality and results don’t matter to them.You simply waste valuable time and emotional energy.In dealing with fools you must adopt the following philosophy: they are simply a part of life, like rocks or furniture.All of us have foolish sides, moments in which we lose our heads and think more of our ego or short-term goals.It is human nature. Seeing this foolishness within you, you can then accept it in others.This will allow you to smile at their antics, to tolerate their presence as you would a silly child, and to avoid the madness of trying to change them.It is all part of the human comedy, and it is nothing to get upset or lose sleep over." -Robert Greene
"Mastery is not a function of genius or talent. It is a function of time and intense focus applied to a particular field of knowledge. But there is another element, an X factor that Masters inevitably possess, that seems mystical but that is accessible to us all. Whatever field of activity we are involved in, there is generally an accepted path to the top. It is a path that others followed, and because we are conformist creatures, most of us opt for this conventional route. But Masters have a strong inner guiding system and a high level of self-awareness. What has suited others in the past does not suit them, and they know that trying to fit into a conventional mold would only lead to a dampening of spirit, the reality they seek eluding them. And so inevitably, these Masters, as they progress on their career paths, make a choice at a key moment in their lives: they decide to forge their own route, one that others will see as unconventional, but that suits their own spirit and rhythms and leads them closer to discovering the hidden truths of their objects of study. This key choice takes self-confidence and self-awarenes–the X factor that is necessary for attaining mastery..." -Robert Greene
"Understand: the greatest generals, the most creative strategists, stand out not because they have more knowledge but because they are able, when necessary, to drop their preconceived notions and focus intensely on the present moment. That is how creativity is sparked and opportunities are seized. Knowledge, experience, and theory have limitations: no amount of thinking in advance can prepare you for the chaos of life, for the infinite possibilities of the moment. The great philosopher of war Carl von Clausewitz called this 'friction': the difference between our plans and what actually happens. Since friction is inevitable, our minds have to be capable of keeping up with change and adapting to the unexpected. The better we can adapt our thoughts to changing circumstances, the more realistic our responses to them will be. The more we lose ourselves in predigested theories and past experiences, the more inappropriate and delusional our response." -Robert Greene
"The intuitive mind is a sacred gift and the rational mind is a faithful servant. We have created a society that honors the servant and has forgotten the gift. —ALBERT EINSTEIN" -Robert Greene
"In fact, the better you are at dealing with power, the better friend, lover, husband, wife, and person you become." -Robert Greene
"Second, many believe that by being honest and open they are winning people’s hearts and showing their good nature. They are greatly deluded. Honesty is actually a blunt instrument, which bloodies more than it cuts. Your honesty is likely to offend people; it is much more prudent to tailor your words, telling people what they want to hear rather than the coarse and ugly truth of what you feel or think. More important, by being unabashedly open you make yourself so predictable and familiar that it is almost impossible to respect or fear you, and power will not accrue to a person who cannot inspire such emotions. If" -Robert Greene
"A false path in life is generally something we are attracted to for the wrong reasons—money, fame, attention, and so on. If it is attention we need, we often experience a kind of emptiness inside that we are hoping to fill with the false love of public approval." -Robert Greene
"Through continual exposure to people and by attempting to think inside of them we can gain an increasing sense of their perspective, but this requires effort on our part." -Robert Greene
"Being attacked is a sign that you are important enough to be a target. You should relish the attention and the chance to prove yourself." -Robert Greene
"You will not seduce anyone by simply depending on your engaging personality, or by occasionally doing something noble or alluring. Seduction is a process that occurs over time—the longer you take and the slower you go, the deeper you will penetrate into the mind of your victim. It is an art that requires patience, focus, and strategic thinking. You need to always be one step ahead of your victim, throwing dust in their eyes, casting a spell, keeping them off balance." -Robert Greene
"Napoleon advised: Place your iron hand inside a velvet glove." -Robert Greene
"Always make those above you feel comfortably superior. In your desire to please or impress them, do not go too far in displaying your talents or you might accomplish the opposite – inspire fear and insecurity. Make your masters appear more brilliant than they are and you will attain the heights of power." -Robert Greene
"Understand: your mind is weaker than your emotions. But you become aware of this weakness only in moments of adversity,precisely the time whenyou need strength. What best equips you to cope with tthe heat of battle is neither more knowledge nor more intellect. What makes your mind stronger, and more able to control your emotions, is internal discipline and toughness.No one can teach you this skill; you cannot learn it by reading about it. Like any discipline, it can come only through practice, experience, even a little suffering. The first step in building up presence of mind is to see the need for it, to want it badly enough to be willing to work for it." -Robert Greene
"Do not talk about giftedness, inborn talents! One can name great men of all kinds who were very little gifted. They acquired greatness, became 'geniuses' (as we put it), through qualities the lack of which no one who knew what they were would boast of: they all possessed that seriousness of the efficient workman which first learns to construct the parts properly before it ventures to fashion a great whole; they allowed themselves time for it, because they took more pleasure in making the little, secondary things well than in the effect of a dazzling whole. —FRIEDRICH NIETZSCHE" -Robert Greene
"The more Coriolanus said, the less powerful he appeared—a person who cannot control his words shows that he cannot control himself, and is unworthy of respect." -Robert Greene
"The lesson is simple: it may be too late to be spoiled by a parent, but it is never too late to make other people spoil you. It is all in your attitude. People are drawn to those who expect a lot out of life, whereas they tend to disrespect those who are fearful and undemanding." -Robert Greene
"To help yourself to cultivate serendipity, you should keep a notebook with you at all times. The moment any idea or observation comes, you note it down. You keep the notebook by your bed, careful to record ideas that come in those moments of fringe awareness—just before falling asleep, or just upon waking." -Robert Greene
"[Strategy] is more than a science: it is the application of knowledge to practical life, the development of thought capable of modifying the original guiding idea in the light of ever-changing situations; it is the art of acting under the pressure of the most difficult conditions. HELMUTH VON MOLTKE, 1800–1891" -Robert Greene
"Commit harmless mistakes that will not hurt you in the long run but will give you the chance to ask for his help. Masters adore such requests. A master who cannot bestow on you the gifts of his experience may direct rancor and ill will at you instead." -Robert Greene
"As an apprentice, it can be hard for us to challenge ourselves on our own in the proper way, and to get a clear sense of our own weaknesses. The times that we live in make this even harder. Developing discipline through challenging situations and perhaps suffering along the way are no longer values that are promoted in our culture. People are increasingly reluctant to tell each other the truth about themselves—their weaknesses, their inadequacies, flaws in their work. Even the self-help books designed to set us straight tend to be soft and flattering, telling us what we want to hear—that we are basically good and can get what we want by following a few simple steps. It seems abusive or damaging to people’s self-esteem to offer them stern, realistic criticism, to set them tasks that will make them aware of how far they have to go. In fact, this indulgence and fear of hurting people’s feelings is far more abusive in the long run. It makes it hard for people to gauge where they are or to develop self-discipline. It makes them unsuited for the rigors of the journey to mastery. It weakens people’s will." -Robert Greene
"The root cause of all passive aggression is the human fear of direct confrontation—the emotions that a conflict can churn up and the loss of control that ensues." -Robert Greene
"The truth is that everything starts from the top. What determines your failure or success is your style of leadership and the chain of command that you design." -Robert Greene
"What people lack in life is not more reality but illusion, fantasy, play." -Robert Greene
"Acted like a king to be treated like one." -Robert Greene
"you often do not know your friends as well as you imagine. Friends often agree on things in order to avoid an argument. They cover up their unpleasant qualities so as to not offend each other. They laugh extra hard at each other’s jokes. Since honesty rarely strengthens friendship, you may never know how a friend truly feels. Friends will say that they love your poetry, adore your music, envy your taste in clothes—maybe they mean it, often they do not. When" -Robert Greene
"While a friend expects more and more favors, and seethes with jealousy, these former enemies expected nothing and got everything. A man suddenly spared the guillotine is a grateful man indeed, and will go to the ends of the earth for the man who has pardoned him." -Robert Greene
"I do not believe that any of us would exchange places with any other people or any other generation. The energy, the faith, the devotion which we bring to this endeavor will light our country and all who serve it—and the glow from that fire can truly light the world." -Robert Greene
"(The word 'genius' comes from the Latin, and originally referred to a guardian spirit that watched over the birth of each person; it later came to refer to the innate qualities that make each person uniquely gifted.)" -Robert Greene
"Many men are intimidated by beauty and prefer to worship it from afar; others are drawn in, but not for the purpose of conversation. The Beauty suffers from isolation." -Robert Greene
"when people overtly display some trait, such as confidence or hypermasculinity, they are most often concealing the contrary reality." -Robert Greene
"Every day you face battles—that is the reality for all creatures in their struggle to survive. But the greatest battle of all is with yourself—your weaknesses, your emotions, your lack of resolution in seeing things through to the end." -Robert Greene
"A seduction should never settle into a comfortable routine. The middle and later chapters will instruct you in the art of alternating hope and despair, pleasure and pain, until your victims weaken and succumb." -Robert Greene
"What limits individuals as well as nations is the inability to confront reality, to see things for what they are. As we grow older, we become more rooted in the past. Habit takes over. Something that has worked for us before becomes a doctrine, a shell to protect us from reality. Repetition replaces creativity." -Robert Greene
"What offers immediate pleasure comes to seem like a distraction, an empty entertainment to help pass the time. Real pleasure comes from overcoming challenges, feeling confidence in your abilities, gaining fluency in skills, and experiencing the power this brings." -Robert Greene
"take special note of how people respond to stressful situations—often the mask they wear in public falls off in the heat of the moment." -Robert Greene
"Athena came to represent a very particular form of nous—eminently practical, feminine, and earthy. She is the voice that comes to heroes in times of need, instilling in them a calm spirit, orienting their minds toward the perfect idea for victory and success, then giving them the energy to achieve this. To be visited by Athena was the highest blessing of them all, and it was her spirit that guided great generals and the best artists, inventors, and tradesmen. Under" -Robert Greene
"His moves intrigued her, each of them keeping her waiting for the next one—she even enjoyed her jealousy and confusion, for sometimes any emotion is better than the boredom of security." -Robert Greene
"Niceness in seduction, however, though it may at first draw someone to you (it is soothing and comforting), soon loses all effect. Being too nice can literally push the target away from you. Erotic feeling depends on the creation of tension. Without tension, without anxiety and suspense, there can be no feeling of release, of true pleasure and joy." -Robert Greene
"A fisherman in the month of May stood angling on the bank of the Thames with an artificial fly. He threw his bait with so much art, that a young trout was rushing toward it, when she was prevented by her mother. 'Never,' said she, 'my child, be too precipitate, where there is a possibility of danger. Take due time to consider, before you risk an action that may be fatal. How know you whether yon appearance be indeed a fly, or the snare of an enemy? Let someone else make the experiment before you. If it be a fly, he will very probably elude the first attack: and the second may be made, if not with success, at least with safety.' She had no sooner spoken, than a gudgeon seized the pretended fly, and became an example to the giddy daughter of the importance of her mother’s counsel.   FABLES, ROBERT DODSLEY, 1703-1764" -Robert Greene
"Everyone holds his fortune in his own hands, like a sculptor the raw material he will fashion into a figure. But it’s the same with that type of artistic activity as with all others: We are merely born with the capability to do it. The skill to mold the material into what we want must be learned and attentively cultivated. —JOHANN WOLFGANG VON GOETHE" -Robert Greene
"KEYS TO WARFARE The world is full of people looking for a secret formula for success and power. They do not want to think on their own; they just want a recipe to follow. They are attracted to the idea of strategy for that very reason. In their minds strategy is a series of steps to be followed toward a goal. They want these steps spelled out for them by an expert or a guru. Believing in the power of imitation, they want to know exactly what some great person has done before. Their maneuvers in life are as mechanical as their thinking. To separate yourself from such a crowd, you need to get rid of a common misconception: the essence of strategy is not to carry out a brilliant plan that proceeds in steps; it is to put yourself in situations where you have more options than the enemy does. Instead of grasping at Option A as the single right answer, true strategy is positioning yourself to be able to do A, B, or C depending on the circumstances. That is strategic depth of thinking, as opposed to formulaic thinking." -Robert Greene
"The pain is kind of challenge your mind presents - will you learn how to focus and move past boredom, or like a child will you succumb to the need for immediate pleasure and distraction?" -Robert Greene
"Just as a well-filled day brings blessed sleep, so a well-employed life brings a blessed death." -Robert Greene
"Every task you are given, no matter how menial, offers opportunities to observe this world at work. No detail about the people within it is too trivial. Everything you see or hear is a sign for you to decode. Over time, you will begin to see and understand more of the reality that eluded you at first. For instance, a person whom you initially thought had great power ended up being someone with more bark than bite. Slowly, you begin to see behind the appearances. As you amass more information about the rules and power dynamics of your new environment, you can begin to analyze why they exist, and how they relate to larger trends in the field. You move from observation to analysis, honing your reasoning skills, but only after months of careful attention." -Robert Greene
"Renaissance diplomat and courtier Niccolò Machiavelli wrote, 'Any man who tries to be good all the time is bound to come to ruin among the great number who are not good." -Robert Greene
"As Xenophon said, your obstacles are not rivers or mountains or other people; your obstacle is yourself. If you feel lost and confused, if you lose your sense of direction, if you cannot tell the difference between friend and foe, you have only" -Robert Greene
"a show or display of innocence are the least innocent of all. The only means to gain one’s ends with people are force and cunning. Love also, they say; but that is to wait for sunshine, and life needs every moment. JOHANN VON GOETHE, 1749-1832" -Robert Greene
"Our levels of desire, patience, persistence, and confidence end up playing a much larger role in success than sheer reasoning powers." -Robert Greene
"Understand: as an individual you cannot stop the tide of fantasy and escapism sweeping a culture. But you can stand as an individual bulwark to this trend and create power for yourself. You were born with the greatest weapon in all of nature—the rational, conscious mind. It has the power to expand your vision far and wide, giving you the unique capacity to distinguish patterns in events, learn from the past, glimpse into the future, see through appearances. Circumstances are conspiring to dull that weapon and render it useless by turning you inward and making you afraid of reality.Consider it war. You must fight this tendency as best you can and move in the opposite direction. You must turn outward and become a keen observer of all that is around you. You are doing battle against all the fantasies that are thrown at you. You are tightening your connection to the environment. You want clarity, not escape and confusion. Moving in this direction will instantly bring you power among so many dreamers." -Robert Greene
"The people with money were meddling in mechanical and design affairs. They were interjecting their mediocre ideas into the process and polluting it." -Robert Greene
"Confidence is important, but if it is not based on a realistic appraisal of who you are, it is mere grandiosity and smugness." -Robert Greene
"Mentors have their own strengths and weaknesses. The good ones allow you to develop your own style and then to leave them when the time is right. Such types can remain lifelong friends and allies. But often the opposite will occur. They grow dependent on your services and want to keep you indentured. They envy your youth and unconsciously hinder you, or become overcritical. You must be aware of this as it develops. Your goal is to get as much out of them as possible, but at a certain point you may pay a price if you stay too long and let them subvert your confidence. Your submitting to their authority is by no means unconditional, and in fact your goal all along is eventually to find your way to independence, having internalized and adapted their wisdom." -Robert Greene
"From a very early age Edison became used to doing things for himself, by necessity. His family was poor, and by the age of twelve he had to earn money to help his parents. He sold newspapers on trains, and traveling around his native Michigan for his job, he developed an ardent curiosity about everything he saw. He wanted to know how things worked—machines, gadgets, anything with moving parts. With no schools or teachers in his life, he turned to books, particularly anything he could find on science. He began to conduct his own experiments in the basement of his family home, and he taught himself how to take apart and fix any kind of watch. At the age of fifteen he apprenticed as a telegraph operator, then spent years traveling across the country plying his trade. He had no chance for a formal education, and nobody crossed his path who could serve as a teacher or mentor. And so in lieu of that, in every city he spent time in, he frequented the public library. One book that crossed his path played a decisive role in his life: Michael Faraday’s two-volume Experimental Researches in Electricity. This book became for Edison what The Improvement of the Mind had been for Faraday. It gave him a systematic approach to science and a program for how to educate himself in the field that now obsessed him—electricity. He could follow the experiments laid out by the great Master of the field and absorb as well his philosophical approach to science. For the rest of his life, Faraday would remain his role model. Through books, experiments, and practical experience at various jobs, Edison gave himself a rigorous education that lasted about ten years, up until the time he became an inventor. What made this successful was his relentless desire to learn through whatever crossed his path, as well as his self-discipline. He had developed the habit of overcoming his lack of an organized education by sheer determination and persistence. He worked harder than anyone else. Because he was a consummate outsider and his mind had not been indoctrinated in any school of thought, he brought a fresh perspective to every problem he tackled. He turned his lack of formal direction into an advantage. If you are forced onto this path, you must follow Edison’s example by developing extreme self-reliance. Under these circumstances, you become your own teacher and mentor. You push yourself to learn from every possible source. You read more books than those who have a formal education, developing this into a lifelong habit. As much as possible, you try to apply your knowledge in some form of experiment or practice. You find for yourself second-degree mentors in the form of public figures who can serve as role models. Reading and reflecting on their experiences, you can gain some guidance. You try to make their ideas come to life, internalizing their voice. As someone self-taught, you will maintain a pristine vision, completely distilled through your own experiences—giving you a distinctive power and path to mastery." -Robert Greene
"This is a young country,' Kennedy went on, his voice getting louder, 'founded by young men . . . and still young in heart. . . . The world is changing, the old ways will not do. . . . It is time for a new generation of leadership to cope with new problems and new opportunities.' Even Kennedy’s enemies agreed that his speech that day was stirring. He turned Truman’s challenge around: the issue was not his inexperience but the older generation’s monopoly on power." -Robert Greene
"Among his various possible beings each man always finds one which is his genuine and authentic being. The voice which calls him to that authentic being is what we call 'vocation.' But the majority of men devote themselves to silencing that voice of the vocation and refusing to hear it. They manage to make a noise within themselves … to distract their own attention in order not to hear it; and they defraud themselves by substituting for their genuine selves a false course of life. —JOSÉ ORTEGA Y GASSET" -Robert Greene
"Perhaps a more uncomfortable emotion is at the source—such as envy or paranoia. You need to look at this square in the eye. Dig below any trigger points to see where they started. For these purposes, it might be wise to use a journal in which you record your Self-assessments with ruthless objectivity. Your greatest danger here is your ego and how it makes you unconsciously maintain illusions about yourself. These may be comforting in the moment, but in the long run they make you defensive and unable to learn or progress." -Robert Greene
"Seduction is a form of deception, but people want to be led astray, they yearn to be seduced. If they didn’t, seducers would not find so many willing victims. Get rid of any moralizing tendencies, adopt the seducer’s playful philosophy, and you will find the rest of the process easy and natural." -Robert Greene
"Strategic warriors operate much differently. They think ahead toward their long-term goals, decide which fights to avoid and which are inevitable, know how to control and channel their emotions. When forced to fight, they do so with indirection and subtle maneuver, making their manipulations hard to trace. In this way they can maintain the peaceful exterior so cherished in these political times." -Robert Greene
"Do not swallow the easy moralism of the day, which urges honesty at the expense of desirability." -Robert Greene
"A sense of urgency comes from a powerful connection to the present" -Robert Greene
"One repays a teacher badly if one remains only a pupil. —FRIEDRICH NIETZSCHE" -Robert Greene
"In all of these areas, the human brain is asked to do and handle more than ever before. We are dealing with several fields of knowledge constantly intersecting with our own, and all of this chaos is exponentially increased by the information available through technology. What this means is that all of us must possess different forms of knowledge and an array of skills in different fields, and have minds that are capable of organizing large amounts of information. The future belongs to those who learn more skills and combine them in creative ways. And the process of learning skills, no matter how virtual, remains the same. In the future, the great division will be between those who have trained themselves to handle these complexities and those who are overwhelmed by them—those who can acquire skills and discipline their minds and those who are irrevocably distracted by all the media around them and can never focus enough to learn. The Apprenticeship Phase is more relevant and important than ever, and those who discount this notion will almost certainly be left behind. Finally, we live in a culture that generally values intellect and reasoning with words. We tend to think of working with the hands, of building something physical, as degraded skills for those who are less intelligent. This is an extremely counterproductive cultural value. The human brain evolved in intimate conjunction with the hand. Many of our earliest survival skills depended on elaborate hand-eye coordination. To this day, a large portion of our brain is devoted to this relationship. When we work with our hands and build something, we learn how to sequence our actions and how to organize our thoughts. In taking anything apart in order to fix it, we learn problem-solving skills that have wider applications. Even if it is only as a side activity, you should find a way to work with your hands, or to learn more about the inner workings of the machines and pieces of technology around you. Many Masters" -Robert Greene
"The best way to neutralize our natural impatience is to cultivate a kind of pleasure in pain—like an athlete, you come to enjoy rigorous practice, pushing past your limits, and resisting the easy way out." -Robert Greene
"Instead of wasting time negotiating with every difficult person, work on spreading a spirit of camaraderie and efficiency that becomes self-policing. Streamline the organization, cutting out waste—in staff, in the irrelevant reports on your desk, in pointless meetings." -Robert Greene
"By taking a shape, by having a visible plan, you open yourself to attack. Instead of taking a form for your enemy to grasp, keep yourself adaptable and on the move. Accept the fact that nothing is certain and no law is fixed. The best way to protect yourself is to be as fluid and formless as water; never bet on stability or lasting order. Everything changes." -Robert Greene
"Remember: You have only so much energy and so much time. Every moment wasted on the affairs of others subtracts from your strength. You may be afraid that people will condemn you as heartless, but in the end, maintaining your independence and self-reliance will gain you more respect and place you in a position of power from which you can choose to help others on your own initiative." -Robert Greene
"But improvisation will only bring you as far as the next crisis, and is never a substitute for thinking several steps ahead and planning to the end." -Robert Greene
"People with a lot of time on their hands are extremely susceptible to seduction. They have mental space for you to fill." -Robert Greene
"The secret enemy, though, will react with anger. Any strong emotion and you will know that there’s something boiling under the surface. Often the best way to get people to reveal themselves is to provoke tension and argument." -Robert Greene
"We could express this power in the following way: Most of the time we live in an interior world of dreams, desires, and obsessive thoughts. But in this period of exceptional creativity, we are impelled by the need to get something done that has a practical effect. We force ourselves to step outside our inner chamber of habitual thoughts and connect to the world, to other people, to reality. Instead of flitting here and there in a state of perpetual distraction, our minds focus and penetrate to the core of something real. At these moments, it is as if our minds—turned outward—are now flooded with light from the world around us, and suddenly exposed to new details and ideas, we become more inspired and creative." -Robert Greene
"What you want in warfare is room to maneuver. Tight corners spell death. Having enemies gives you options. You can play them off against each other, make one a friend as a way of attacking the other, on and on. Without enemies you will not know how or where to maneuver, and you will lose a sense of your limits, of how far you can go. Early on, Julius Caesar identified Pompey as his enemy. Measuring his actions and calculating carefully, he did only those things that left him in a solid position in relation to Pompey. When war finally broke out between the two men, Caesar was at his best. But once he defeated Pompey and had no more such rivals, he lost all sense of proportion—in fact, he fancied himself a god. His defeat of Pompey was his own undoing. Your enemies force on you a sense of realism and humility." -Robert Greene
"The character you seem to have been born with is not necessarily who you are; beyond the characteristics you have inherited, your parents, your friends, and your peers have helped to shape your personality. The Promethean task of the powerful is to take control of the process, to stop allowing others that ability to limit and mold them. Remake yourself into a character of power. Working on yourself like clay should be one of your greatest and most pleasurable life tasks. It makes you in essence an artist — an artist creating yourself." -Robert Greene
"Anger is the most destructive of emotional responses, for it clouds your vision the most. It" -Robert Greene
"Every time I bestow a vacant office I make a hundred discontented persons and one ingrate. Louis XIV, 1638-1715" -Robert Greene
"Remember : the role you were given in life is not the role you have to accept. You can always live out a role of your own creation, a role that fits your fantasy. Learn to play with your image, never taking it too seriously. The key is to infuse your play with the conviction and feeling of a child, making it seem natural. The more absorbed you seem in your own joy-filled world, the more seductive you become. Do not go halfway: make the fantasy you inhabit as radical and exotic as possible, and you will attract attention like a magnet." -Robert Greene
"In a world growing increasingly banal and familiar, what seems enigmatic instantly draws attention. Never make it too clear what you are doing or about to do. Do not show all your cards. An air of mystery heightens your presence; it also creates anticipation—everyone" -Robert Greene
"Albert Einstein was an avid violinist. He believed that working with his hands in this way and playing music helped his thinking process as well. In" -Robert Greene
"What I fear is not the enemy’s strategy but our own mistakes." -Robert Greene
"At your birth a seed is planted. That seed is your uniqueness. It wants to grow, transform itself, and flower to its full potential. It has a natural, assertive energy to it. Your Life’s Task is to bring that seed to flower, to express your uniqueness through your work. You have a destiny to fulfill. The stronger you feel and maintain it—as a force, a voice, or in whatever form—the greater your chance for fulfilling this Life’s Task and achieving mastery." -Robert Greene
"Be like vapor. Do not give your opponents anything solid to attack; watch as they exhaust themselves pursuing you, trying to cope with your elusiveness. Only formlessness allows you to truly surprise your enemies — by the time they figure out where you are and what you are up to, it is too late." -Robert Greene
"Power goes to those who end the revolution. Not the one who starts it." -Robert Greene
"You cannot spend your life worrying about the petty feelings of others." -Robert Greene
"What good is it to have the greatest dream in the world if others reap the benefits and the glory? Never lose your head over a vague, open-ended dream—plan to the end. OBSERVANCE" -Robert Greene
"When Leonardo da Vinci wanted to create a whole new style of painting, one that was more lifelike and emotional, he engaged in an obsessive study of details. He spent endless hours experimenting with forms of light hitting various geometrical solids, to test how light could alter the appearance of objects. He devoted hundreds of pages in his notebooks to exploring the various gradations of shadows in every possible combination. He gave this same attention to the folds of a gown, the patterns in hair, the various minute changes in the expression of a human face. When we look at his work we are not consciously aware of these efforts on his part, but we feel how much more alive and realistic his paintings are, as if he had captured reality." -Robert Greene
"Charmers. First, they don’t talk much about themselves, which heightens their mystery and disguises their limitations. Second, they seem to be interested in us, and their interest is so delightfully focused that we relax and open up to them. Finally Charmers are pleasant to be around. They have none of most people’s ugly qualities—nagging, complaining, self-assertion. They seem to know what pleases." -Robert Greene
"If you are not in danger,' says Sun-tzu, 'do not fight." -Robert Greene
"Become who you are by learning who you are.' What he meant is the following: You are born with a particular makeup and tendencies that mark you as a piece of fate. It is who you are to the core. Some people never become who they are; they stop trusting in themselves; they conform to the tastes of others, and they end up wearing a mask that hides their true nature. If you allow yourself to learn who you really are by paying attention to that voice and force within you, then you can become what you were fated to become—an individual, a Master." -Robert Greene
"A person in love will surrender." -Robert Greene
"Do not envy those who seem to be naturally gifted; it is often a curse, as such types rarely learn the value of diligence and focus, and they pay for this later in life." -Robert Greene
"Never show anger, ill temper, or vengefulness, all disruptive emotions that will make people defensive. In the politics of large groups, welcome adversity as a chance to show the charming qualities of magnanimity and poise. Let others get flustered and upset—the contrast will redound to your favor. Never whine, never complain, never try to justify yourself." -Robert Greene
"If it is money, you will choose a place for your apprenticeship that offers the biggest paycheck. Inevitably, in such a place you will feel greater pressures to prove yourself worthy of such pay, often before you are really ready." -Robert Greene
"And at the core of this intensity of effort is in fact a quality that is genetic and inborn—not talent or brilliance, which is something that must be developed, but rather a deep and powerful inclination toward a particular subject." -Robert Greene
"According to Freud, seduction begins early in life, in our relationship with our parents. They seduce us physically, both with bodily contact and by satisfying desires such as hunger, and we in turn try to seduce them into paying us attention. We are creatures by nature vulnerable to seduction throughout our lives." -Robert Greene
"If you have the kind of intelligence and instinct that will point you in the right direction, playing the rebel will not be dangerous. But if you are mediocre ... you are better off learning from your predecessor's knowledge and experience, which are based on something real." -Robert Greene
"Your targets cannot idealize you if they know too much about you, if they start to see you as all too human. Not only must you maintain a degree of distance, but there must be something fantastical and bewitching about you, sparking all kinds of delightful possibilities in their mind." -Robert Greene
"Instead of spending your time dreaming of your plan’s happy ending, you must work on calculating every possible permutation and pitfall that might emerge in it." -Robert Greene
"To some people the notion of consciously playing power games—no matter how indirect—seems evil, asocial, a relic of the past. They believe they can opt out of the game by behaving in ways that have nothing to do with power. You must beware of such people, for while they express such opinions outwardly, they are often among the most adept players at power." -Robert Greene
"To a remarkable extent, our hunting ancestors reversed this process. The longer they spent observing something, the deeper their understanding and connection to reality. With experience, their hunting skills would progress. With continued practice, their ability to make effective tools would improve." -Robert Greene
"What prevents people from learning, even something as difficult as Pirahã, is not the subject itself—the human mind has limitless capabilities—but rather certain learning disabilities that tend to fester and grow in our minds as we get older. These include a sense of smugness and superiority whenever we encounter something alien to our ways, as well as rigid ideas about what is real or true, often indoctrinated in us by schooling or family. If we feel like we know something, our minds close off to other possibilities. We see reflections of the truth we have already assumed. Such feelings of superiority are often unconscious and stem from a fear of what is different or unknown. We are rarely aware of this, and often imagine ourselves to be paragons of impartiality." -Robert Greene
"The survival of our earliest ancestors depended on their ability to communicate with one another well before the invention of language. They evolved new and complex emotions—joy, shame, gratitude, jealousy, resentment, et cetera. The signs of these emotions could be read immediately on their faces, communicating their moods quickly and effectively." -Robert Greene
"On the internet, it is easy to find studies that support both sides of an argument. In general, you should never accept the validity of people’s ideas because they have supplied 'evidence.' Instead, examine the evidence yourself in the cold light of day, with as much skepticism as you can muster. Your first impulse should always be to find the evidence that disconfirms your most cherished beliefs and those of others. That is true science." -Robert Greene
"You see, you keep learning. People are always looking for a single magic turning point. There isn't one. It’s much more of a gradual getting better and better and better and better." -Robert Greene
"Express what others are afraid to express and they will see great power in you." -Robert Greene
"When you are faced with deficiencies instead of strengths and inclinations, this is the strategy you must assume: ignore your weaknesses and resist the temptation to be more like others." -Robert Greene
"Years later, a Japanese visitor tried to apologize to Mao for his country’s invasion of China. Mao interrupted, 'Should I not thank you instead?' Without a worthy opponent, he explained, a man or group cannot grow stronger. Mao’s" -Robert Greene
"Our levels of desire, patience, persistence, and confidence end up playing a much larger role in success than sheer reasoning powers. Feeling motivated and energized, we can overcome almost anything. Feeling bored and restless, our minds shut" -Robert Greene
"PSYCHOLOGY OF LOVE, TRANSLATED BY JOAN RIVIÈRE" -Robert Greene
"Power rarely ends up in the hands of those who start a revolution, or even those who further it; power sticks to those who bring it to a conclusion" -Robert Greene
"Spectacle and entertainment, clearly, are excellent devices to conceal your intentions, but they cannot be used indefinitely. The public grows tired and suspicious, and eventually catches on to the trick." -Robert Greene
"The voice in this case that is calling you is not necessarily coming from God, but from deep within. It emanates from your individuality. It tells you which activities suit your character. And at a certain point, it calls you to a particular form of work or career. Your work then is something connected deeply to who you are, not a separate compartment in your life. You develop then a sense of your vocation." -Robert Greene
"Your wealth vanishes, the latest gadgetry suddenly becomes passé, your allies desert you. But if your mind is armed with the art of war, there is no power that can take that away." -Robert Greene
"According to Machiavelli, human beings naturally tend to think in terms of patterns. They like to see events conforming to their expectations by fitting into a pattern or scheme, for schemes, whatever their actual content, comfort us by suggesting that the chaos of life is predictable." -Robert Greene
"We have a continual desire to communicate our feelings and yet at the same time the need to conceal them for proper social functioning." -Robert Greene
"Self-esteem is critical in seduction. (Your attitude toward yourself is read by the other person in subtle and unconscious ways.) Low self-esteem repels, confidence and self-sufficiency attract. The less you seem to need other people, the more likely others will be drawn to you." -Robert Greene
"To this day, we humans remain highly susceptible to the moods and emotions of those around us, compelling all kinds of behavior on our part—unconsciously imitating others, wanting what they have, getting swept up in viral feelings of anger or outrage. We" -Robert Greene
"In order to master a field, you must love the subject and feel a profound connection to it." -Robert Greene
"Love never dies of starvation,' she wrote, 'but often of indigestion." -Robert Greene
"Do not be afraid to exaggerate the role of willpower. It is an exaggeration with a purpose. It leads to a positive self-fulfilling dynamic, and that is all you care about. See this shaping of your attitude as your most important creation in life, and never leave it to chance." -Robert Greene
"Power depends on appearing larger than other people," -Robert Greene
"The child psychologist Jean Piaget saw conflict as a critical part of mental development. Through battles with peers and then parents, children learn to adapt to the world and develop strategies for dealing with problems. Those children who seek to avoid conflict at all cost, or those who have overprotective parents, end up handicapped socially and mentally. The same is true of adults: it is through your battles with others that you learn what works, what doesn’t, and how to protect yourself. Instead of shrinking from the idea of having enemies, then, embrace it. Conflict is therapeutic." -Robert Greene
"to the end, no matter what it is you are considering. Often enough, God gives a man a glimpse of happiness, and then utterly ruins him. THE HISTORIES, HERODOTUS, FIFTH CENTURY B.C. Indians" -Robert Greene
"Establishing your differences with the mentor is an important part of your self-development, whether he is of the good or bad parent type." -Robert Greene
"It has an edge because it is so different. Soon imitators pop up everywhere. It becomes a fashion, something to conform to, even if the comformity appears to be rebellious and edgy. This can drag on for ten, twenty years; it eventually becomes a cliche, ppure style without any real emotion or need." -Robert Greene
"Your Life’s Task does not always appear to you through some grand or promising inclination. […] Do not envy those who seem to be naturally gifted; it is often a curse, as such types rarely learn the value of diligence and focus, and they pay for this later in life." -Robert Greene
"There is an art to asking for help, an art that depends on your ability to understand the person you are dealing with, and to not confuse your needs with theirs. Most people never succeed at this, because they are completely trapped in their own wants and desires. They start from the assumption that the people they are appealing to have a selfless interest in helping them. They talk as if their needs mattered to these people—who probably couldn’t care less. Sometimes they refer to larger issues: a great cause, or grand emotions such as love and gratitude. They go for the big picture when simple, everyday realities would have much more appeal. What they do not realize is that even the most powerful person is locked inside needs of his own, and that if you make no appeal to his self-interest, he merely sees you as desperate or, at best, a waste of time." -Robert Greene
"Most people want to be seduced. If they resist your efforts, it is probably because you have not gone far enough to allay their doubts—about your motives, the depth of your feelings, and so on. One well-timed action that shows how far you are willing to go to win them over will dispel their doubts. Do not worry about looking foolish or making a mistake—any kind of deed that is self-sacrificing and for your targets’ sake will so overwhelm their emotions, they won’t notice anything else. Never appear discouraged by people’s resistance, or complain. Instead, meet the challenge by doing something extreme or chivalrous. Conversely, spur others to prove themselves by making yourself hard to reach, unattainable, worth fighting over." -Robert Greene
"I never read any treatises on strategy. . . . When we fight, we do not take any books with us.MAO TSE-TUNG, 1893–1976" -Robert Greene
"Immerse yourself in the world or the industry that you wish to master." -Robert Greene
"Interactions with people are the major source of emotional turmoil, but it doesn’t have to be that way. The problem is that we are continually judging people, wishing they were something that they are not… We want them to think and act a certain way, most often the way we think and act. And because this is not possible, because everyone is different, we are continually frustrated and upset. Instead, see other people as phenomena, as neutral as comets or plants. They simply exist. . . Work with what they give you, instead of resisting and trying to change them. Make understanding people a fun game, the solving of puzzles. It is all part of the human comedy." -Robert Greene
"Time is the greatest weapon you have. Patiently keep in mind a long-term goal and neither person nor army can resist you. And charm is the best way of playing for time, of widening your options in any situation. Through charm you can seduce your enemy into backing off, giving you the psychological space to plot an effective counterstrategy. The key is to make other people emotional while you remain detached. They may feel grateful, happy, moved, arrogant—it doesn’t matter, as long as they feel. An emotional person is a distracted person. Give them what they want, appeal to their self-interest, make them feel superior to you. When a baby has grabbed a sharp knife, do not try to grab it back; instead, stay calm, offer candy, and the baby will drop the knife to pick up the tempting morsel you offer." -Robert Greene
"Read more books than those who have a formal education, developing this into a lifelong habit." -Robert Greene
"Most people wait too long to go into action, generally out of fear. They want more money or better circumstances. You must go the opposite direction and move before you think you are ready. It is as if you are making it a little more difficult for yourself, deliberately creating obstacles in your path. But it is a law of power that your energy will always rise to the appropriate level. When you feel you must work harder to get to your goal because you are not quite prepared, you are more alert and inventive. This venture has to succeed so it will." -Robert Greene
"This mental habit offers excellent ground for deception, using a strategy that Machiavelli calls 'acclimatization'—deliberately creating some pattern to make your enemies believe that your next action will follow true to form. Having lulled them into complacency, you now have room to work against their expectations, break the pattern, and take them by surprise." -Robert Greene
"The only means to gain one’s ends with people are force and cunning. Love also, they say; but that is to wait for sunshine, and life needs every moment. JOHANN VON GOETHE, 1749–1832 You" -Robert Greene
"Always try to lower the other side’s sense of urgency. Make your enemies think they have all the time in the world; when you suddenly appear at their border, they are in a slumbering state, and you will easily overrun them. While you are sharpening your fighting spirit, always do what you can to blunt theirs. PART" -Robert Greene
"Lord, protect me from my friends; I can take care of my enemies. Voltaire, 1694-1778" -Robert Greene
"The only real impediment to this is yourself and your emotions—boredom, panic, frustration, insecurity. You cannot suppress such emotions—they are normal to the process and are experienced by everyone, including Masters. What you can do is have faith in the process." -Robert Greene
"The most important of these skills, and power’s crucial foundation, is the ability to master your emotions. An emotional response to a situation is the single greatest barrier to power, a mistake that will cost you a lot more than any temporary satisfaction you might gain by expressing your feelings. Emotions cloud reason, and if you cannot see the situation clearly, you cannot prepare for and respond to it with any degree of control." -Robert Greene
"To understand the peculiar power of the Coquette, you must first understand a critical property of love and desire: the more obviously you pursue a person, the more likely you are to chase them away. Too much attention can be interesting for a while, but it soon grows cloying and finally becomes claustrophobic and frightening. It signals weakness and neediness, an unseductive combination." -Robert Greene
"Authority: One who is good at combating the enemy fools it with inscrutable moves, confuses it with false intelligence, makes it relax by concealing one’s strength, . . . deafens its ears by jumbling one’s orders and signals, blinds its eyes by converting one’s banners and insignias, . . . confounds its battle plan by providing distorted facts. —Tou Bi Fu Tan, A Scholar’s Dilettante Remarks on War (16th century A.D.)" -Robert Greene
"Most people believe that they are in fact aware of the future, that they are planning and thinking ahead. They are usually deluded: What they are really doing is succumbing to their desires, to what they want the future to be. Their plans are vague, based on their imaginations rather than their reality. They may believe they are thinking all the way to the end, but they are really only focusing on the happy ending, and deluding themselves by the strength of their desire." -Robert Greene
"Excuses satisfy no one and apologies make everyone uncomfortable" -Robert Greene
"Time is the greatest weapon you have. Patiently keep in mind a long-term goal and neither person nor army can resist you. And charm is the best way of playing for time, of widening your options in any situation. Through charm you can seduce your enemy into backing off, giving you the psychological space to plot an effective counterstrategy." -Robert Greene
"The only way to break out of a negative dynamic is to confront it. Repressing your anger, avoiding the person threatening you, always looking to conciliate—these common strategies spell ruin. Avoidance of conflict becomes a habit, and you lose the taste for battle. Feeling guilty is pointless; it is not your fault you have enemies." -Robert Greene
"Seducers are never self-absorbed. Their gaze is directed outward, not inward. When they meet someone their first move is to get inside that person’s skin, to see the world through their eyes." -Robert Greene
"An up-front enemy is rare now and is actually a blessing. People hardly ever attack you openly anymore, showing their intentions, their desire to destroy you; instead they are political and indirect. Although the world is more competitive than ever, outward aggression is discouraged, so people have learned to go underground, to attack unpredictably and craftily. Many use friendship as a way to mask aggressive desires: they come close to you to do more harm. (A friend knows best how to hurt you.) Or, without actually being friends, they offer assistance and alliance: they may seem supportive, but in the end they’re advancing their own interests at your expense. Then there are those who master moral warfare, playing the victim, making you feel guilty for something unspecified you’ve done. The battlefield is full of these warriors, slippery, evasive, and clever." -Robert Greene
"How can we explain such inclinations? They are forces within us that come from a deeper place than conscious words can express.They draw us to certain experiences and away from others." -Robert Greene
"People who are outwardly distant or shy are often better targets than extroverts. They are dying to be drawn out, and still waters run deep." -Robert Greene
"Inter action with boldness" -Robert Greene
"Too many people believe that everything must be pleasurable in life, which makes them constantly search for distractions and short-circuits the learning process. The pain is a kind of challenge your mind presents—will you learn how to focus and move past the boredom, or like a child will you succumb to the need for immediate pleasure and distraction? Much as with physical exercise, you can even get a kind of perverse pleasure out of this pain, knowing the benefits it will bring you. In any event, you must meet any boredom head-on and not try to avoid or repress it. Throughout your life you will encounter tedious situations, and you must cultivate the ability to handle them with discipline." -Robert Greene
"Right now, you are living off the fruits of millions of people in the pastwho have made your life incomparably easier through their strugglesand inventions. You have benefited from an education that embodiesthe wisdom of thousands of years of experience. It is so easy to takethis all for granted, to imagine that it all just came about naturally andthat you are entitled to have all of these powers. That is the view ofspoiled children, and you must see any signs of such an attitude withinyou as shameful. This world needs constant improvement and renewal.You are here not merely to gratify your impulses and consume whatothers have made but to make and contribute as well, to serve a higherpurpose." -Robert Greene
"When you have success, be extra wary. When you are angry, take no action. When you are fearful, know you are going to exaggerate the dangers you face. War demands the utmost in realism, seeing things as they are. The more you can limit or compensate for your emotional responses, the closer you will come to this ideal." -Robert Greene
"What will seduce a person is the effort we expend on their behalf, showing how much we care, how much they are worth. Leaving things to chance is a recipe for disaster, and reveals that we do not take love and romance very seriously. It" -Robert Greene
"You must value learning above everything else." -Robert Greene
"Too much attention early on will actually just suggest insecurity, and raise doubts as to your motives. Worst of all, it gives your targets no room for imagination." -Robert Greene
"When it comes to mastering a skill, time is the magic ingredient. Assuming your practice proceeds at a steady level, over days and weeks certain elements of the skill become hardwired. Slowly, the entire skill becomes internalized, part of your nervous system. The mind is no longer mired in the details, but can see the larger picture. It is a miraculous sensation and practice will lead you to that point, no matter the talent level you are born with. The only real impediment to this is yourself and your emotions—boredom, panic, frustration, insecurity. You cannot suppress such emotions—they are normal to the process and are experienced by everyone, including Masters. What you can do is have faith in the process. The boredom will go away once you enter the cycle. The panic disappears after repeated exposure. The frustration is a sign of progress—a signal that your mind is processing complexity and requires more practice. The insecurities will transform into their opposites when you gain mastery. Trusting this will all happen, you will allow the natural learning process to move forward, and everything else will fall into place." -Robert Greene
"Experienced hunters do not choose their prey by how easily it is caught; they want the thrill of the chase, a life-and-death struggle—the fiercer the better." -Robert Greene
"Most of us in life are tacticians, not strategists. We become so enmeshed in the conflicts we face that we can think only of how to get what we want in the battle we are currently facing. To think strategically is difficult and unnatural. You may imagine you are being strategic, but in all likelihood you are merely being tactical. To have the power that only strategy can bring, you must be able to elevate yourself above the battlefield, to focus on your long-term objectives, to craft an entire campaign, to get out of the reactive mode that so many battles in life lock you into." -Robert Greene
"Remember: The powerful responses to niggling, petty annoyances and irritations are contempt and disdain. Never show that something has affected you, or that you are offended—that only shows you have acknowledged a problem. Contempt is a dish that is best served cold and without affectation." -Robert Greene
"Law 35: Master the art of timing'Never seem to be in a hurry – hurrying betrays a lack of control over yourself, and over time. Always seem patient, as if you know that everything will come to you eventually. Become a detective of the right moment; sniff out the spirit of the times, the trends that will carry you to power. Learn to stand back when the time is not yet ripe, and to strike fiercely when it has reached fruition." -Robert Greene
"There are nine seducer types in the world. Each type has a particular character trait that comes from deep within and creates a seductive pull. Sirens have an abundance of sexual energy and know how to use it. Rakes insatiably adore the opposite sex, and their desire is infectious. Ideal Lovers have an aesthetic sensibility that they apply to romance. Dandies like to play with their image, creating a striking and androgynous allure. Naturals are spontaneous and open. Coquettes are self-sufficient, with a fascinating cool at their core. Charmers want and know how to please—they are social creatures. Charismatics have an unusual confidence in themselves. Stars are ethereal and envelop themselves in mystery." -Robert Greene
"Generational Patterns Since the beginning of recorded time, certain writers and thinkers have intuited a pattern to human history. It was perhaps the great fourteenth-century Islamic scholar Ibn Khaldun who first formulated this idea into the theory that history seems to move in four acts, corresponding to four generations. The first generation is that of the revolutionaries who make a radical break with the past, establishing new values but also creating some chaos in the struggle to do so. Often in this generation there are some great leaders or prophets who influence the direction of the revolution and leave their stamp on it. Then along comes a second generation that craves some order. They are still feeling the heat of the revolution itself, having lived through it at a very early age, but they want to stabilize the world, establish some conventions and dogma. Those of the third generation—having little direct connection to the founders of the revolution—feel less passionate about it. They are pragmatists. They want to solve problems and make life as comfortable as possible. They are not so interested in ideas but rather in building things. In the process, they tend to drain out the spirit of the original revolution. Material concerns predominate, and people can become quite individualistic. Along comes the fourth generation, which feels that society has lost its vitality, but they are not sure what should replace it. They begin to question the values they have inherited, some becoming quite cynical. Nobody knows what to believe in anymore. A crisis of sorts emerges. Then comes the revolutionary generation, which, unified around some new belief, finally tears down the old order, and the cycle continues. This revolution can be extreme and violent, or it can be less intense, with simply the emergence of new and different values." -Robert Greene
"If there is any instrument you must fall in love with and fetishize, it is the human brain—the most miraculous, awe-inspiring, information-processing tool devised in the known universe, with a complexity we can’t even begin to fathom, and with dimensional powers that far outstrip any piece of technology in sophistication and usefulness." -Robert Greene
"As a warrior in life, you must turn this dynamic around: make the thought of death something not to escape but to embrace. Your days are numbered. Will you pass them half awake and halfhearted or will you live with a sense of urgency?" -Robert Greene
"I do know, however, that men become bigger-hearted and better lovers once they get the suspicion that their mistresses care less about them. When a man believes himself to be the one and only lover in a woman’s life, he’ll whistle and go his way." -Robert Greene
"Finally, you must see your career or vocational path more as a journey with twists and turns rather than a straight line." -Robert Greene
"Understand: we can never really experience what other people are experiencing. We always remain on the outside looking in, and this is the cause of so many misunderstandings and conflicts." -Robert Greene
"The ultimate distinction you make is between yourself and the world. There is the inside (your subjective experience) and there is the outside. But every time you learn something, your brain is altered as new connections are formed. Your experience of something that occurs in the world physically alters your brain. The boundaries between you and the world are much more fluid than you might imagine." -Robert Greene
"The perfect victim is the person who stirs you in a way that cannot be explained in words, whose effect on you has nothing to do with superficialities. He or she often has a quality that you yourself lack, and may even secretly envy" -Robert Greene
"Moving towards mastery will naturally bring you a more global outlook, but it is always wise to expedite the process by training yourself early on to continually enlarge your perspective." -Robert Greene
"You will always be the prey or the plaything of the devils and fools in this world, if you expect to see them going about with horns or jangling their bells. And it should be borne in mind that, in their intercourse with others, people are like the moon: they show you only one of their sides. Every man has an innate talent for . . . making a mask out of his physiognomy, so that he can always look as if he really were what he pretends to be . . . and its effect is extremely deceptive. He dons his mask whenever his object is to flatter himself into some one’s good opinion; and you may pay just as much attention to it as if it were made of wax or cardboard. —Arthur Schopenhauer" -Robert Greene
"As the great physicist Max Planck put it, scientists 'must have a vivid intuitive imagination, for new ideas are not generated by deduction, but by an artistically creative imagination." -Robert Greene
"We feel, perhaps unconsciously, that learning from Masters and submitting to their authority is somehow an indictment of our own natural ability, Even if we have teachers in our lives, we tend not to pay full attention to their advice, often preferring to do things our own way. In fact, we come to believe that being critical of Masters or teachers is somehow a sign of our intelligence, and that being a submissive pupil is a sign of weakness." -Robert Greene
"... good luck is more dangerous than bad luck.  Bad luck teaches valuable lessons about patience, timing, and the need to be prepared for the worst; good luck deludes you into the opposite lesson, making you think your brilliance will carry you through. Your fortune will inevitably turn, and when it does you will be completely unprepared." -Robert Greene
"Because you think you have options, you never involve yourself deeply enough in one thing to do it thoroughly, and you never quite get what you want. Sometimes you need to run your ships aground, burn them, and leave yourself just one option: succeed or go down. Make the burning of your ships as real as possible—get rid of your safety net. Sometimes you have to become a little desperate to get anywhere." -Robert Greene
"At your birth a seed is planted. That seed is your uniqueness. It wants to grow, transform itself, and flower to its full potential. It has a natural, assertive energy to it. Your Life’s Task is to bring that seed to flower, to express your uniqueness through your work. You have a destiny to fulfill." -Robert Greene
"At every step of the way, to give her the contrast she needed, Thatcher marked out an opponent: the socialists, the wets, the Argentineans. These enemies helped to define her image as determined, powerful, self-sacrificing. Thatcher was not seduced by popularity, which is ephemeral and superficial. Pundits might obsess over popularity numbers, but in the mind of the voter—which, for a politician, is the field of battle—a dominating presence has more pull than does likability. Let some of the public hate you; you cannot please everyone. Your enemies, those you stand sharply against, will help you to forge a support base that will not desert you. Do not crowd into the center, where everyone else is; there is no room to fight in a crowd. Polarize people, drive some of them away, and create a space for battle. Everything in life conspires to push you into the center, and not just politically. The center is the realm of compromise. Getting along with other people is an important skill to have, but it comes with a danger: by always seeking the path of least resistance, the path of conciliation, you forget who you are, and you sink into the center with everyone else. Instead see yourself as a fighter, an outsider surrounded by enemies. Constant battle will keep you strong and alert. It will help to define what you believe in, both for yourself and for others. Do not worry about antagonizing people; without antagonism there is no battle, and without battle, there is no chance of victory. Do not be lured by the need to be liked: better to be respected, even feared. Victory over your enemies will bring you a more lasting popularity." -Robert Greene
"To follow precisely the lead of others or advice from a book is self-defeating" -Robert Greene
"So much of power is not what you do but what you do not do—the rash and foolish actions that you refrain from before they get you into trouble. Plan in detail before you act—do not let vague plans lead you into trouble." -Robert Greene
"The Lonely Leader. Powerful people are not necessarily different from everyone else, but they are treated differently, and this has a big effect on their personalities. Everyone around them tends to be fawning and courtierlike, to have an angle, to want something from them. This makes them suspicious and distrustful, and a little hard around the edges, but do not mistake the appearance for the reality. Lonely Leaders long to be seduced, to have someone break through their isolation and overwhelm them." -Robert Greene
"So rid yourself of your nasty habit of avoiding conflict, which is in any case unnatural. You are most often nice not out of your own inner goodness but out of fear of displeasing, out of insecurity. Go beyond that fear and you suddenly have options—the freedom to create pain, then magically dissolve it. Your seductive powers will increase tenfold." -Robert Greene
"If you are trying to mislead your enemies, it is often better to concoct something ambiguous and hard to read, as opposed to an outright deception—that deception can be uncovered and enemies can turn their discovery to their advantage, especially if you think they are still fooled and act under that belief." -Robert Greene
"never spend so much time on your studies that you neglect your social skills." -Robert Greene
"cultivate profound dissatisfaction with your work and the need to constantly improve your ideas, along with a sense of uncertainty—you are not exactly sure where to go next, and this uncertainty drives the creative urge and keeps it fresh." -Robert Greene
"Too much attention early on will actually just suggest insecurity, and raise doubts as to your motives. Worst of all, it gives your targets no room for imagination. Take a step back; let the thoughts you are provoking come to them as if they were their own. This is doubly important if you are dealing with someone who has a deep effect on you." -Robert Greene
"Seduction requires an openness to the other person, a willingness to bend and adapt. Excessive pride, without anything to justify it, is highly anti-seductive." -Robert Greene
"One added benefit of making the opponent come to you, as the Japanese discovered with the Russians, is that it forces him to operate in your territory. Being on hostile ground will make him nervous and often he will rush his actions and make mistakes. For negotiations or meetings, it is always wise to lure others into your territory, or the territory of your choice. You have your bearings, while they see nothing familiar and are subtly placed on the defensive." -Robert Greene
"Nature has made up her mind that what cannot defend itself shall not be defended.RALPH WALDO EMERSON, 1803–1882" -Robert Greene
"If they come from another culture, it is all the more important to understand this culture from within their experience." -Robert Greene
"One can have no smaller or greater mastery than mastery of oneself. —LEONARDO DA VINCI In" -Robert Greene
"The great questions of the time will be decided, not by speeches and resolutions of majorities, but by iron and blood." -Robert Greene
"Arrange an occasional 'chance' encounter, as if you and your target were destined to become acquainted—nothing is more seductive than a sense of destiny. Lull the target into feeling secure, then strike." -Robert Greene
"Nothing is more infuriating than being paid no attention. In the process of seduction, you may have to pull back at times, subjecting your target to moments of doubt. But prolonged inattention will not only break the seductive spell, it can create hatred." -Robert Greene
"REFRESHING THE MIND When you and your opponent are engaged in combat which is dragging on with no end in sight, it is crucial that you should come up with a completely different technique. By refreshing your mind and techniques as you continue to fight your opponent, you will find an appropriate rhythm-timing with which to defeat him. Whenever you and your opponent become stagnant, you must immediately employ a different method of dealing with him in order to overcome him." -Robert Greene
"Human tongue is a beast that few can master" -Robert Greene
"Make your targets afraid that you may be with-drawing, that you may not really be interested, and you arouse their innate insecurity, their fear that as you have gotten to know them they have become less exciting to you. These insecurities are devastating. Then, once you have made them uncertain of you and of themselves, reignite their hope, making them feel desired again. Hot and cold, hot and cold—such coquetry is perversely pleasurable, heightening interest and keeping the initiative on your side. Never be put off by your target’s anger; it is a sure sign of enslavement." -Robert Greene
"Over the centuries, people have placed a wall around such mastery. They have called it genius and have thought of it as inaccessible. They have seen it as the product of privilege, inborn talent, or just the right alignment of the stars. They have made it seem as if it were as elusive as magic. But that wall is imaginary." -Robert Greene
"Remember: seduction is a game of attention, of slowly filling the other person’s mind with your presence. Distance and inattention will create the opposite effect, and can be used as a tactic when the need arises." -Robert Greene
"we can never really experience what other people are experiencing. We always remain on the outside looking in, and this is the cause of so many misunderstandings and conflicts. But the primal source of human intelligence comes from the development of mirror neurons (see here), which gives us the ability to place ourselves in the skin of another and imagine their experience. Through continual exposure to people and by attempting to think inside them we can gain an increasing sense of their perspective, but this requires effort on our part. Our natural tendency is to project onto other people our own beliefs and value systems, in ways in which we are not even aware. When it comes to studying another culture, it is only through the use of our empathic powers and by participating in their lives that we can begin to overcome these natural projections and arrive at the reality of their experience." -Robert Greene
"If we keep practicing, we gain fluency; basic skills are mastered, allowing us to take on newer and more exciting challenges." -Robert Greene
"Never ignore a detail or leave one to chance. Orchestrate them into a spectacle and no one will notice how manipulative you are being." -Robert Greene
"To be emperor of China was to be alone, surrounded by a pack of enemies—it was the least powerful, least secure position in the realm." -Robert Greene
"never let your targets get too comfortable with you. They need to feel fear and anxiety. Show them some coldness, a flash of anger they did not expect. Be irrational if necessary." -Robert Greene
"In general, no matter your field, you must think of yourself as a builder, using actual materials and ideas. You are producing something tangible in your work, something that affects people in some direct, concrete way. To build anything well—a house, a political organization, a business, or a film—you must understand the building process and possess the necessary skills. You are a craftsman learning to adhere to the highest standards. For all of this, you must go through a careful apprenticeship. You cannot make anything worthwhile in this world unless you have first developed and transformed yourself." -Robert Greene
"Most often in culture we see people who short-circuit the Current. They observe some phenomenon in culture or nature that makes them emotional and they run rampant with speculations, never taking the time to entertain possible explanations that could have been verified by further observation. They disconnect themselves from reality and can then imagine whatever they want. On the other hand, we see many people, particularly in academia or in the sciences, who accumulate mountains of information and data from studies and statistics but never venture to speculate on the larger ramifications of this information or connect it all into a theory. They are afraid to speculate because it seems unscientific and subjective, failing to understand that speculation is the heart and soul of human rationality, our way of connecting to reality and seeing the invisible. To them, it is better to stick to facts and studies, to keep a micro view, rather than possibly embarrassing themselves with a speculation that could be wrong." -Robert Greene
"Do not take so seriously people’s promises or their ardor in wanting to help you. If they come through, so much the better, but be prepared for the more frequent change of heart. Rely upon yourself to get things done and you will not be disappointed." -Robert Greene
"Una mujer fácil de obtener no puede valer gran cosa." -Robert Greene
"Boldness ... is outer directed ... and makes others feel more at ease because it's less self-conscious." -Robert Greene
"We happily follow Charismatics because we like to be led, particularly by people who promise adventure or prosperity. We lose ourselves in their cause, become emotionally attached to them, feel more alive by believing in them-we fall in love." -Robert Greene
"To understand the peculiar power of the Coquette, you must first understand a critical property of love and desire: the more obviously you pursue a person, the more likely you are to chase them away." -Robert Greene
"There are three kinds of time for us to deal with; each presents problems that can be solved with skill and practice. First there is long time: the drawn-out, years-long kind of time that must be managed with patience and gentle guidance. Our handling of long time should be mostly defensive—this is the art of not reacting impulsively, of waiting for opportunity. Next there is forced time: the short-term time that we can manipulate as an offensive weapon, upsetting the timing of our opponents. Finally there is end time, when a plan must be executed with speed and force. We have waited, found the moment, and must not hesitate." -Robert Greene
"This inclination is a reflection of a person’s uniqueness. This uniqueness is not something merely poetic or philosophical—it is a scientific fact that genetically, every one of us is unique; our exact genetic makeup has never happened before and will never be repeated. This uniqueness is revealed to us through the preferences we innately feel for particular activities or subjects of study. Such inclinations can be toward music or mathematics, certain sports or games, solving puzzle-like problems, tinkering and building, or playing with words. With those who stand out by their later mastery, they experience this inclination more deeply and clearly than others. They experience it as an inner calling. It tends to dominate their thoughts and dreams. They find their way, by accident or sheer effort, to a career path in which this inclination can flourish. This intense connection and desire allows them to withstand the pain of the process—the self-doubts, the tedious hours of practice and study, the inevitable setbacks, the endless barbs from the envious. They develop a resiliency and confidence that others lack." -Robert Greene
"Never criticize people overtly—that will make them insecure, and resistant to change. Plant ideas, insinuate suggestions. Charmed by your diplomatic skills, people will not notice your growing power." -Robert Greene
"Spiritualize your warfare. Every day you face battles—that is the reality for all creatures in their struggle to survive. But the greatest battle of all is with yourself—your weaknesses, your emotions, your lack of resolution in seeing things through to the end. You must declare unceasing war on yourself. As a warrior in life, you welcome combat and conflict as ways to prove yourself, to better your skills, to gain courage, confidence, and experience. Instead of repressing your doubts and fears, you must face them down, do battle with them. You want more chal-xx lenges, and you invite more war. You are forging the warrior’s spirit, and only constant practice will lead you there." -Robert Greene
"You cannot hit two targets with one arrow. If your thoughts stray, you miss your enemies’ heart. Mind and arrow must become one." -Robert Greene
"it is always best to choose a task that is slightly above you, one that might be considered ambitious on your part. This is a corollary of the Law of the Creative Dynamic—the higher the goal, the more energy you will call up from deep within. You will rise to the challenge because you have to, and will discover creative powers in yourself that you never suspected." -Robert Greene
"Remember, your own image and presence are materials you can control." -Robert Greene
"We live in a world in which speed is prized above almost all else, and acting faster than the other side has itself become the primary goal. But most often people are merely in a hurry, acting and reacting frantically to events, all of which makes them prone to error and wasting time in the long run. In order to separate yourself from the pack, to harness a speed that has devastating force, you must be organized and strategic. First, you prepare yourself before any action, scanning your enemy for weaknesses. Then you find a way to get your opponents to underestimate you, to lower their guard. When you strike unexpectedly, they will freeze up. When you hit again, it is from the side and out of nowhere. It is the unanticipated blow that makes the biggest impact." -Robert Greene
"It is a disease to be obsessed by the thought of winning. It is also a disease to be obsessed by the thought of employing your swordsmanship. So it is to be obsessed by the thought of using everything you have learned, and to be obsessed by the thought of attacking. It is also a disease to be obsessed and stuck with the thought of ridding yourself of any of these diseases. A disease here is an obsessed mind that dwells on one thing. Because all these diseases are in your mind, you must get rid of them to put your mind in order.TAKUAN, JAPAN, 1573–1645" -Robert Greene
"Make your masters appear more brilliant than they are and you will attain the heights of power." -Robert Greene
"You can recognize these supposed nonplayers by the way they flaunt their moral qualities, their piety, their exquisite sense of justice. But since all of us hunger for power, and almost all of our actions are aimed at gaining it, the nonplayers are merely throwing dust in our eyes, distracting us from their power plays with their air of moral superiority. If you observe them closely, you will see in fact that they are often the ones most skillful at indirect manipulation, even if some of them practice it unconsciously. And they greatly resent any publicizing of the tactics they use every day." -Robert Greene
"It’s like chopping down a huge tree of immense girth. You won’t accomplish it with one swing of your axe. If you keep chopping away at it, though, and do not let up, eventually, whether it wants to or not, it will suddenly topple down. When that time comes, you could round up everyone you could find and pay them to hold the tree up, but they wouldn’t be able to do it. It would still come crashing to the ground…. But if the woodcutter stopped after one or two strokes of his axe to ask the third son of Mr. Chang, 'Why doesn’t this tree fall?' And after three or four more strokes stopped again to ask the fourth son of Mr. Li, 'Why doesn’t this tree fall?' he would never succeed in felling the tree. It is no different for someone who is practicing the Way. —ZEN MASTER HAKUIN" -Robert Greene
"Everything in daily life is hurried and improvised, and you need to offer something different. By taking your time and respecting the seductive process you will not only break down your victim’s resistance, you will make them fall in love." -Robert Greene
"We live in a world that seems increasingly beyond our control. Our livelihoods are at the whim of globalized forces. The problems that we face—economic, environmental, and so on—cannot be solved by our individual actions. Our politicians are distant and unresponsive to our desires. A natural response when people feel overwhelmed is to retreat into various forms of passivity. If we don’t try too much in life, if we limit our circle of action, we can give ourselves the illusion of control. The less we attempt, the less chances of failure. If we can make it look like we are not really responsible for our fate, for what happens to us in life, then our apparent powerlessness is more palatable. For this reason we become attracted to certain narratives: it is genetics that determines much of what we do; we are just products of our times; the individual is just a myth; human behavior can be reduced to statistical trends." -Robert Greene
"Be Frugal with Flattery. It may seem that your superiors cannot get enough flattery, but too much of even a good thing loses its value. It also stirs up suspicion among your peers." -Robert Greene
"Ignore the conventional wisdom about what you should or should not be doing. It may make sense for some, but that does not mean it bears any relation to your own goals and destiny. You need to be patient enough to plot several steps ahead—to wage a campaign instead of fighting battles. The path to your goal may be indirect, your actions may be strange to other people, but so much the better: the less they understand you, the easier they are to deceive, manipulate, and seduce. Following this path, you will gain the calm, Olympian perspective that will separate you from other mortals, whether dreamers who get nothing done or prosaic, practical people who accomplish only small things." -Robert Greene
"You must always be prepared to place a bet on yourself, on your future, by heading in a direction that others seem to fear." -Robert Greene
"The boredom will go away once you enter the cycle. The panic disappears after repeated exposure. The frustration is a sign of progress—a signal that your mind is processing complexity and requires more practice. The insecurities will transform into their opposites when you gain mastery." -Robert Greene
"What people say about themselves does not matter; people will say anything. Look at what they have done; deeds do not lie. You must also apply this logic to yourself. In looking back at a defeat, you must identify the things you could have done differently." -Robert Greene
"Concentrate on a single goal, a single task, and beat it into submission." -Robert Greene
"masterpieces of beauty, craftsmanship, and stability, all erected" -Robert Greene
"In the stories of the greatest Masters, past and present, we can inevitably detect a phase in their lives in which all of their future powers were in development, like the chrysalis of a butterfly. This part of their lives—a largely self-directed apprenticeship that lasts some five to ten years—receives little attention because it does not contain stories of great achievement or discovery. Often in their Apprenticeship Phase, these types are not yet much different from anyone else. Under the surface, however, their minds are transforming in ways we cannot see but contain all of the seeds of their future success." -Robert Greene
"The ancient Greeks had an appropriate metaphor for this: the rider and the horse. The horse is our emotional nature continually impelling us to move. This horse has tremendous energy and power, but without a rider it cannot be guided; it is wild, subject to predators, and continually heading into trouble. The rider is our thinking self. Through training and practice, it holds the reins and guides the horse, transforming this powerful animal energy into something productive. The one without the other is useless. Without the rider, no directed movement or purpose. Without the horse, no energy, no power. In most people the horse dominates, and the rider is weak. In some people the rider is too strong, holds the reins too tightly, and is afraid to occasionally let the animal go into a gallop. The horse and rider must work together. This means we consider our actions beforehand; we bring as much thinking as possible to a situation before we make a decision. But once we decide what to do, we loosen the reins and enter action with boldness and a spirit of adventure. Instead of being slaves to this energy, we channel it. That is the essence of rationality. As an example of this ideal in action, try to maintain a perfect balance between skepticism (rider) and curiosity (horse). In this mode you are skeptical about your own enthusiasms and those of others. You do not accept at face value people’s explanations and their application of 'evidence.' You look at the results of their actions, not what they say about their motivations. But if you take this too far, your mind will close itself off from wild ideas, from exciting speculations, from curiosity itself. You want to retain the elasticity of spirit you had as a child, interested in everything, while retaining the hard-nosed need to verify and scrutinize for yourself all ideas and beliefs. The two can coexist. It is a balance that all geniuses possess." -Robert Greene
"Eventually, the time that was not spent on learning skills will catch up with you, and the fall will be painful." -Robert Greene
"If you need everything in your life to be simple and safe, this open-ended nature of the task will fill you with anxiety. If you are worried about what others might think and about how your position in the group might be jeopardized, then you will never really create anything. You will unconsciously tether your mind to certain conventions, and your ideas will grow stale and flat." -Robert Greene
"لم يكن الإغوائيون ليجدوا كل هذا الكم من الضحايا الطوعيين لو لم يكن الناس كذلك." -Robert Greene
"In social situations we all wear masks, and keep our defenses up. It is embarrassing, after all, to reveal one’s true feelings. As a seducer you must find a way to lower these resistances." -Robert Greene
"The person who is obviously angling for money or other material reward can only repel. If that is your intention, if you are looking for something other than pleasure—for money, for power—never show it. The suspicion of an ulterior motive is anti-seductive. Never let anything break the illusion." -Robert Greene
"The word 'charm' comes from the Latin carmen, a song, but also an incantation tied to the casting of a magical spell." -Robert Greene
"Whenever you can, bury the hatchet with an enemy, and make a point of putting him in your service." -Robert Greene
"See people as facts of nature. They come in all varieties, like flowers or rocks. There are fools and saints and sociopaths and egomaniacs and noble warriors; there are the sensitive and the insensitive. They all play a role in our social ecology. This does not mean we cannot struggle to change the harmful behavior of the people who are close to us or in our sphere of influence; but we cannot reengineer human nature, and even if we somehow succeeded, the result could be a lot worse than what we have. You must accept diversity and the fact that people are what they are. That they are different from you should not be felt as a challenge to your ego or Self-esteem but as something to welcome and embrace. From this more neutral stance, you can then try to understand the people you deal with on a deeper level, as Chekhov did with his father. The more you do this, the more tolerant you will tend to become toward people and toward human nature in general. Your open, generous spirit will make your social interactions much smoother, and people will be drawn to you." -Robert Greene
"Remember the following: Never take your position for granted and never let any favors you receive go to your head. Knowing" -Robert Greene
"If the world is like a giant scheming court and we are trapped inside it, there is no use in trying to opt out of the game. That will only render you powerless, and powerlessness will make you miserable. Instead of struggling against the inevitable, instead of arguing and whining and feeling guilty, it is far better to excel at power. In fact, the better you are at dealing with power, the better friend, lover, husband, wife, and person you become. By following the route of the perfect courtier (see Law 24) you learn to make others feel better about themselves, becoming a source of pleasure to them. They will grow dependent on your abilities and desirous of your presence. By mastering the 48 laws in this book, you spare others the pain that comes from bungling with power—by playing with fire without knowing its properties. If the game of power is inescapable, better to be an artist than a denier or a bungler." -Robert Greene
"Your eyes must be on the larger trends that govern events, on that which is not immediately visible. Never lose sight of your long-term goals. With an elevated perspective, you will have the patience and clarity to reach almost any objective." -Robert Greene
"A seducer does not turn the power off and on—every social and personal interaction is seen as a potential seduction. There is never a moment to waste." -Robert Greene
"On July 2, 1960, a few weeks before that year’s Democratic National Convention, former President Harry Truman publicly stated that John F Kennedy—who had won enough delegates to be chosen his party’s candidate for the presidency—was too young and inexperienced for the job." -Robert Greene
"We think we are judging the younger generation in an objective manner, but we are merely succumbing to an illusion of perspective. It is also true that we are probably experiencing some hidden envy of their youth and mourning the loss of our own." -Robert Greene
"Authority: I certainly think that it is better to be impetuous than cautious, for fortune is a woman, and it is necessary, if you wish to master her, to conquer her by force; and it can be seen that she lets herself be overcome by the bold rather than by those who proceed coldly. And therefore, like a woman, she is always a friend to the young, because they are less cautious, fiercer, and master her with greater audacity. (Niccolò Machiavelli, 1469-1527) REVERSAL Boldness should never be the strategy behind all of your actions." -Robert Greene
"This kind of feigned naturalness has countless applications in daily life, where nothing is more dangerous than looking smarter than the next person; the Natural pose is the perfect way to disguise your cleverness. But if you are uncontrollably childish and cannot turn it off, you run the risk of seeming pathetic, earning not sympathy but pity and disgust." -Robert Greene
"Power is essentially amoral and one of the most important skills to acquire is the ability to see circumstances rather than good or evil." -Robert Greene
"There will always be difficult people for us to face—the chronically insecure, the hopelessly stubborn, the hysterical complainers. Your ability to disarm these people will prove an invaluable skill. You do have to be careful, though: if you are passive they will run all over you; if assertive you will make their monstrous qualities worse. Seduction and charm are the most effective counterweapons. Outwardly, be gracious. Adapt to their every mood. Enter their spirit. Inwardly, calculate and wait: your surrender is a strategy, not a way of life." -Robert Greene
"We are continually judging other people. We want others to think and act a certain way. Usually, the way we think and act. Because this is impossible, we continually get upset. Instead, we should see other people as phenomena, as neutral as comets or planets. They come in all varieties, which makes like rich and interesting." -Robert Greene
"it is hard to be angry or defensive with someone who seems to agree with your opinions and tastes. Charmers may appear to be weaker than their targets but in the end they are the more powerful side because they have stolen the ability to resist." -Robert Greene
"Human beings are immensely suggestible; their moods will easily spread to the people around them. In fact seduction depends on mimesis, on the conscious creation of a mood or feeling that is then reproduced by the other person. But hesitation and awkwardness are also contagious, and are deadly to seduction." -Robert Greene
"Power has its own rhythms and patterns. Those who succeed at the game are the ones who control the patterns and vary them at will, keeping people off balance while they set the tempo. The essence of strategy is controlling what comes next, and the elation of victory can upset your ability to control what comes next in two ways. First, you owe your success to a pattern that you are apt to try to repeat.... Second, success tends to go to your head ...The powerful vary their rhythms and patterns, change course, adapt to circumstance, and learn to improvise." -Robert Greene
"Clearing your head of everything you thought you knew, even your mostcherished ideas, will give you the mental space to be educated by your present experience--the best schoolof all. You will develop your own strategic muscles instead of depending on other people's theories and books." -Robert Greene
"When you find yourself in conflict with someone stronger and more rigid, allow them a momentary victory. Seem to bow to their superiority. Then, by being formless and adaptable, slowly insinuate yourself into their soul. This way you will catch them off guard, for rigid people are always ready to ward off direct blows but are helpless against the subtle and insinuating. To succeed at such a strategy you must play the chameleon—conform on the surface, while breaking down your enemy from the inside." -Robert Greene
"talking endlessly about [ourselves] is eminently anti-seductive, revealing not self-sufficiency but insecurity." -Robert Greene
"Do not be afraid to bring out the more sensitive or ambitious sides to your character. These repressed parts of you are yearning to be let out. In the theater of life, expand the roles that you play. Don’t worry about people’s reactions to any changes in you they sense. You are not so easy to categorize, which will fascinate them and give you the power to play with their perceptions of you, altering them at will." -Robert Greene
"Darwin could have played it safe, collecting what was necessary, and spending more time on board studying instead of actively exploring. In that case, he would not have become an illustrious scientist, but just another collector. He constantly looked for challenges, pushing himself past his comfort zone. He used danger and difficulties as a way to measure his progress. You must adopt such a spirit and see your apprenticeship as a kind of journey in which you will transform yourself, rather than as a drab indoctrination into the work world." -Robert Greene
"You destroy an enemy when you make a friend of him." -Robert Greene
"we live in the world of a sad separation that began some five hundred years ago when art and science split apart. Scientists and technicians live in their own world, focusing mostly on the 'how' of things. Others live in the world of appearances, using these things but not really understanding how they function. Just before this split occurred, it was the ideal of the Renaissance to combine these two forms of knowledge. This is why the work of Leonardo da Vinci continues to fascinate us, and why the Renaissance remains an ideal. This more rounded knowledge is in fact the way of the future, especially now that so much more information is available to all of us. As Calatrava intuited, this should be a part of our apprenticeship. We must make ourselves study as deeply as possible the technology we use, the functioning of the group we work in, the economics of our field, its lifeblood. We must constantly ask the questions—how do things work, how do decisions get made, how does the group interact? Rounding our knowledge in this way will give us a deeper feel for reality and the heightened power to alter it." -Robert Greene
"Being more careful is not what we need; that is just a screen for our fear of conflict and of making a mistake. What we need is double the resolve—an intensification of confidence. That will serve as a counterbalance." -Robert Greene
"Although time is the critical factor in attaining Mastery and this intuitive feel, the time we are talking about is not neutral or simply quantitative. An hour of Einstein’s thinking at the age of sixteen does not equal an hour spent by an average high school student working on a problem in physics. It is not a matter of studying a subject for twenty years, and then emerging as a Master. The time that leads to mastery is dependent on the intensity of our focus." -Robert Greene
"The problem with most people, he felt, is that they build artificial walls around subjects and ideas. The real thinker sees the connections, grasps the essence of the life force operating in every individual instance. Why should any individual stop at poetry, or find art unrelated to science, or narrow his or her intellectual interests? The mind was designed to connect things, like a loom that knits together all of the threads of a fabric. If life exists as an organic whole and cannot be separated into parts without losing a sense of the whole, then thinking should make itself equal to the whole." -Robert Greene
"Coquetry depends on developing a pattern to keep the other person off balance. The strategy is extremely effective. Experiencing a pleasure once, we yearn to repeat it; so the Coquette gives us pleasure, then withdraws it." -Robert Greene
"Real pleasure comes from overcoming challenges, feeling confidence in your abilities, gaining fluency in skills, and experiencing the power this brings. You develop patience. Boredom no longer signals the need for distraction, but rather the need for new challenges to conquer." -Robert Greene
"The fetish is an object that commands an emotional response and that makes us breathe life into it. Because it is an object we can imagine whatever we want to about it." -Robert Greene
"Your false self is the accumulation of all the voice you have internalized from other people-parents and friends who want you to conform to their ideas of what you should be like and what you should do, as well as societal pressures to adhere to certain values that can easily seduce you. It also includes the voice of your own ego, which constantly tries to protect you from from unflattering truths." -Robert Greene
"What you are after as a seducer is the ability to move people in the direction you want them to go. But the game is perilous; the moment they suspect they are acting under your influence, they will become resentful. We are creatures who cannot stand feeling that we are obeying someone else’s will. Should your targets catch on, sooner or later they will turn against you. But what if you can make them do what you want them to without their realizing it? What if they think they are in control? That is the power of indirection and no seducer can work his or her magic without it." -Robert Greene
"nobody likes to believe that they are operating under some kind of compulsion beyond their control. It is too disturbing a thought." -Robert Greene
"[Strategy] is more than a science: it is the application of knowledge to practical life, the development of thought capable of modifying the original guiding idea in the light of ever-changing situations; it is the art of acting under the pressure of the most difficult conditions." -Robert Greene
"Even with skills that are primarily mental, such as computer programming or speaking a foreign language, it remains the case that we learn best through practice and repetition—the natural learning process." -Robert Greene
"If you feel lost and confused, if you lose your sense of direction, if you cannot tell the difference between friend and foe, you have only yourself to blame." -Robert Greene
"Do not be lured by the need to be liked: better to be respected, even feared. Victory over your enemies will bring you a more lasting popularity." -Robert Greene
"Never try to seduce someone who is of your own type. You will be like two puzzles missing the same parts." -Robert Greene
"The two board games that best approximate the strategies of war are chess and the Asian game of go. In chess, the board is small. In comparison to go, the attack comes relatively quickly, forcing a decisive battle.... Go is much less formal. It is played on a large grid, with 361 intersections — nearly six times as many positions as in chess.... [A game of go] can last up to three hundred moves. The strategy is more subtle and fluid than chess, developing slowly; the more complex the pattern your stones initially create on the board, the harder it is for your opponent to understand your strategy. Fighting to control a particular area is not worth the trouble: You have to think in larger terms, to be prepared to sacrifice an area in order eventually to dominate the board. What you are after is not an entrenched position but mobility. With mobility you can isolate your opponent in small areas and then encircle them... Chess is linear, position oriented, and aggressive; go is nonlinear and fluid. Aggression is indirect until the end of the game, when the winner can surround the opponents' stones at an accelerated pace." -Robert Greene
"The irrational simply changes its look and its fashions. We may no longer have literal witch hunts, but in the twentieth century, not so very long ago, we witnessed the show trials of Stalin, the McCarthy hearings in the U.S. Senate, and the mass persecutions during the Chinese Cultural Revolution. Various cults are continually being generated, including cults of personality and the fetishizing of celebrities. Technology now inspires religious fervor. People have a desperate need to believe in something and they will find it anywhere. Polls have revealed that increasing numbers of people believe in ghosts, spirits, and angels, in the twenty-first century." -Robert Greene
"The straight trees are cut down, the crooked ones are left standing. Kautilya, Indian philosopher, third century B.C. KEYS" -Robert Greene
"a state of balance—a clear understanding of why we feel the way we do, conscious of our impulses so that we can think without being secretly compelled by our emotions." -Robert Greene
"Most of us understand that certain actions on our part will have a pleasing and seductive effect on the person we would like to seduce. The problem is that we are generally too self-absorbed: We think more about what we want from others than what they could want from us. We may occasionally do something that is seductive, but often we follow this up with a selfish or aggressive action (we are in a hurry to get what we want); or, unaware of what we are doing, we show a side of ourselves that is petty and banal, deflating any illusions or fantasies a person might have about us. Our attempts at seduction usually do not last long enough to create much of an effect." -Robert Greene
"Acting with speed and decisiveness will garner you respect, awe, and irresistible momentum. War is such that the supreme consideration is speed. This is to take advantage of what is beyond the reach of the enemy, to go by way of routes where he least expects you, and to attack where he has made no preparations.SUN-TZU, FOURTH CENTURY B.C." -Robert Greene
"In the future, the great division will be between those who have trained themselves to handle these complexities and those who are overwhelmed by them—those who can acquire skills and discipline their minds and those who are irrevocably distracted by all the media around them and can never focus enough to learn." -Robert Greene
"There is nothing to be gained by insulting a person unnecessarily. Swallow the impulse to offend, even if the other person seems weak. The satisfaction is meager compared to the danger that someday he or she will be in a position to hurt you." -Robert Greene
"If you need inspiration, find the part of the target that most irritates you and use it as a springboard for some therapeutic conflict. The more real your cruelty, the more effective it is." -Robert Greene
"Madness is the exception in individuals but the rule in groups.—Friedrich Nietzsche (1844–1900)" -Robert Greene
"Practical knowledge is the ultimate commodity, and is what will pay you dividends for decades to come—far more than the paltry increase in pay you might receive at some seemingly lucrative position that offers fewer learning opportunities." -Robert Greene
"Great strategists do not act according to preconceived ideas; they respond to the moment, like children. Their minds are always moving, and they are always excited and curious. They quickly forget the past—the present is much too interesting." -Robert Greene
"So often we think that power has changed people, when in fact it simply reveals more of who they are." -Robert Greene
"When you see several steps ahead, and plan your moves all the way to the end, you will no longer be tempted by emotion or by the desire to improvise. Your clarity will rid you of the anxiety and vagueness that are the primary reasons why so many fail to conclude their actions successfully. You see the ending and you tolerate no deviation." -Robert Greene
"Without enemies you will not know how or where to maneuver, and you will lose a sense of your limits, of how far you can go." -Robert Greene
"Be convinced, that there are no persons so insignificant and inconsiderable, but may, some time or other, have it in their power to be of use to you; which they certainly will not, if you have once shown them contempt. Wrongs are often forgiven, but contempt never is. Our pride remembers it for ever. (Lord Chesterfield, 1694-1773)" -Robert Greene
"Aggression is deceptive: it inherently hides weakness. Aggressors cannot control their emotions." -Robert Greene
"Remember: You choose to let things bother you. You can just as easily choose not to notice the irritating offender, to consider the matter trivial and unworthy of your interest. That is the powerful move. What you do not react to cannot drag you down in a futile engagement. Your pride is not involved." -Robert Greene
"it is natural to want to employ your friends when you find yourself in times of need. The world is a harsh place, and your friends soften the harshness. Besides, you know them. Why depend on a stranger when you have a friend at hand?The problem is that you often do not know your friends as well as you imagine. Friends often agree on things in order to avoid an argument. They cover up their unpleasant qualities so as not offend each other. They laugh extra hard at each others jokes. Since honesty rarely strengthens friendship, you may never know how a friend truly feels. Friends will say they love your poetry, adore your music, envy your taste in clothes - maybe they mean, often they do not." -Robert Greene
"Never discriminate as to whom you study and whom you trust. Never trust anyone completely and study everyone, including friends and loved ones." -Robert Greene
"The feeling that we have endless time to complete our work has an insidious and debilitating effect on our minds. Our attention and thoughts become diffused. Our lack of intensity makes it hard for the brain to jolt into a higher gear. The connections do not occur. For this purpose you must always try to work with deadlines, whether real or manufactured." -Robert Greene
"Whistleblowers get fired and shot or crack up. You have to decide what you want to do. Do you want a career, or do you want to be an advocate? And where I’ve been an advocate, I do it not in my backyard. If I’m going to fight, I don't do it in the backyard. In other words, I can get more done by not doing it in the backyard. I can train my students in the right way to do things." -Robert Greene
"Fo each weakness there is a corresponding strength." -Robert Greene
"Once envy reveals itself for what it is, the only solution is often to flee the presence of the enviers, leaving them to stew in a hell of their own creation." -Robert Greene
"It is estimated that over 65 percent of all human communication is nonverbal but that people pick up and internalize only about 5 percent of this information." -Robert Greene
"Un día, al ensayar una escena de El jardín de los cerezos, su maestro de actuación, Michael Chekhov, le preguntó: '¿Pensabas en sexo mientras hicimos esta escena?'. Ella contestó que no, y él continuó: 'En toda la escena no dejé de recibir vibraciones sexuales de ti. Como si fueras una mujer en las garras de la pasión. […] Ahora entiendo tu problema con tu estudio, Marilyn. Eres una mujer que emite vibraciones sexuales, hagas o pienses lo que sea." -Robert Greene
"we have of seeing love and romance as some kind of sacred, magical realm where things just fall into place, if they are meant to. This might seem romantic and quaint, but it is really just a cover for our laziness." -Robert Greene
"the goal of an apprenticeship is not money, a good position, a title, or a diploma, but rather the transformation of your mind and character—the first transformation on the way to mastery. You" -Robert Greene
"Work at what connects to you emotionally and ideas will come to you." -Robert Greene
"Finally, pay attention to the orders themselves—their form as well as their substance. Vague orders are worthless. As they pass from person to person, they are hopelessly altered, and your staff comes to see them as symbolizing uncertainty and indecision. It is critical that you yourself be clear about what you want before issuing your orders. On the other hand, if your commands are too specific and too narrow, you will encourage people to behave like automatons and stop thinking for themselves—which they must do when the situation requires it. Erring in neither direction is an art." -Robert Greene
"If you allow yourself to learn who you really are by paying attention to that voice and force within you, then you can become what you were fated to become—an individual, a Master. STRATEGIES" -Robert Greene
"Play the psychoanalyst: make cutting comments concerning their unconscious motives (you are only being truthful), then sit back and listen. Your silence will goad them into embarrassing admissions. Leaven your judgments with occasional praise and they will strive to please you, like dogs." -Robert Greene
"Persistence of little progress wins over brute force." -Robert Greene
"What separates Masters from others is often something surprisingly simple. Whenever we learn a skill, we frequently reach a point of frustration—what we are learning seems beyond our capabilities. Giving in to these feelings, we unconsciously quit on ourselves before we actually give up." -Robert Greene
"The more we lose ourselves in predigested theories and past experiences, the more inappropriate and delusional our response." -Robert Greene
"The world is full of self-absorbed people. In their presence, we know that everything in our relationship with them is directed toward themselves—their insecurities, their neediness, their hunger for attention." -Robert Greene
"La creatividad es por naturaleza un acto de audacia y rebelión. No aceptas el orden establecido ni la opinión ortodoxa." -Robert Greene
"In knowing yourself, you accept your limits. You are simply one person among many in the world, and not naturally superior to anyone." -Robert Greene
"In the work environment the stakes are suddenly raised. People are no longer struggling for good grades or social approval, but for survival. Under such pressure, they reveal qualities of their characters that they normally try to conceal. They manipulate, compete, and think of themselves first. We are blindsided by this behavior and our emotions are churned up even more than before, locking us into the Naïve Perspective." -Robert Greene
"5. Move toward resistance and pain A. Bill Bradley (b. 1943) fell in love with the sport of basketball somewhere around the age of ten. He had one advantage over his peers—he was tall for his age. But beyond that, he had no real natural gift for the game. He was slow and gawky, and could not jump very high. None of the aspects of the game came easily to him. He would have to compensate for all of his inadequacies through sheer practice. And so he proceeded to devise one of the most rigorous and efficient training routines in the history of sports. Managing to get his hands on the keys to the high school gym, he created for himself a schedule—three and a half hours of practice after school and on Sundays, eight hours every Saturday, and three hours a day during the summer. Over the years, he would keep rigidly to this schedule. In the gym, he would put ten-pound weights in his shoes to strengthen his legs and give him more spring to his jump. His greatest weaknesses, he decided, were his dribbling and his overall slowness. He would have to work on these and also transform himself into a superior passer to make up for his lack of speed. For this purpose, he devised various exercises. He wore eyeglass frames with pieces of cardboard taped to the bottom, so he could not see the basketball while he practiced dribbling. This would train him to always look around him rather than at the ball—a key skill in passing. He set up chairs on the court to act as opponents. He would dribble around them, back and forth, for hours, until he could glide past them, quickly changing direction. He spent hours at both of these exercises, well past any feelings of boredom or pain. Walking down the main street of his hometown in Missouri, he would keep his eyes focused straight ahead and try to notice the goods in the store windows, on either side, without turning his head. He worked on this endlessly, developing his peripheral vision so he could see more of the court. In his room at home, he practiced pivot moves and fakes well into the night—such skills that would also help him compensate for his lack of speed. Bradley put all of his creative energy into coming up with novel and effective ways of practicing. One time his family traveled to Europe via transatlantic ship. Finally, they thought, he would give his training regimen a break—there was really no place to practice on board. But below deck and running the length of the ship were two corridors, 900 feet long and quite narrow—just enough room for two passengers. This was the perfect location to practice dribbling at top speed while maintaining perfect ball control. To make it even harder, he decided to wear special eyeglasses that narrowed his vision. For hours every day he dribbled up one side and down the other, until the voyage was done. Working this way over the years, Bradley slowly transformed himself into one of the biggest stars in basketball—first as an All-American at Princeton University and then as a professional with the New York Knicks. Fans were in awe of his ability to make the most astounding passes, as if he had eyes on the back and sides of his head—not to mention his dribbling prowess, his incredible arsenal of fakes and pivots, and his complete gracefulness on the court. Little did they know that such apparent ease was the result of so many hours of intense practice over so many years." -Robert Greene
"When people choose between talk about the past and talk about the future, a pragmatic person will always opt for the future and forget the past." -Robert Greene
"Men are not gentle, friendly creatures wishing for love, who simply defend themselves if attacked. . . . A powerful desire for aggression has to be reckoned as part of their . . . endowment. —Sigmund Freud" -Robert Greene
"You are a blank screen. Float through life noncommittally and people will want to seize you and consume you. Of all the parts of your body that draw this fetishistic attention, the strongest is the face; so learn to tune your face like an instrument, making it radiate a fascinating vagueness for effect." -Robert Greene
"Leaders have always found it useful to have an enemy at their gates in times of trouble, distracting the public from their difficulties. In using your enemies to rally your troops, polarize them as far as possible: they will fight the more fiercely when they feel a little hatred. So exaggerate the differences between you and the enemy—draw the lines clearly." -Robert Greene
"Half of your mastery of power comes from what you do NOT do, what you do not ALLOW yourself to get dragged into." -Robert Greene
"There will always be difficult people for us to face—the chronically insecure, the hopelessly stubborn, the hysterical complainers. Your ability to disarm these people will prove an invaluable skill. You do have to be careful, though: if you are passive they will run all over you; if assertive you will make their monstrous qualities worse. Seduction and charm are the most effective counterweapons. Outwardly, be gracious. Adapt to their every mood. Enter their spirit. Inwardly, calculate and wait: your surrender is a strategy, not a way of life. When the time comes, and it inevitably will, the tables will turn. Their aggression will land them in trouble, and that will put you in a position to rescue them, regaining superiority." -Robert Greene
"Because people’s thoughts tend to revolve around their daily concerns and insecurities, you cannot proceed with a seduction until you slowly put their anxieties to sleep and fill their distracted minds with thoughts of you." -Robert Greene
"what if we could look within and see the source of our more troubling emotions and why they drive our behavior, often against our own wishes?" -Robert Greene
"this is so important to the human animal, people will do almost anything to get attention, including committing a crime or attempting suicide. Look behind almost any action, and you will see this need as a primary motivation." -Robert Greene
"(In fact, the seducer sees the world as his or her bedroom.)" -Robert Greene
"Second, you must convince yourself of the following: people get the mind and quality of brain that they deserve through their actions in life." -Robert Greene
"To put Negative Capability into practice, you must develop the habit of suspending the need to judge everything that crosses your path. You consider and even momentarily entertain viewpoints opposite to your own, seeing how they feel. You observe a person or event for a length of time, deliberately holding yourself back from forming an opinion. You seek out what is unfamiliar—for instance, reading books from unfamiliar writers in unrelated fields or from different schools of thought. You do anything to break up your normal train of thinking and your sense that you already know the truth." -Robert Greene
"The misery that oppresses you lies not in your profession but in yourself! What man in the world would not find his situation intolerable if he chooses a craft, an art, indeed any form of life, without experiencing an inner calling? Whoever is born with a talent, or to a talent, must surely find in that the most pleasing of occupations! Everything on this earth has its difficult sides! Only some inner drive—pleasure, love—can help us overcome obstacles, prepare a path, and lift us out of the narrow circle in which others tread out their anguished, miserable existences! —JOHANN WOLFGANG VON GOETHE" -Robert Greene
"Although it was pure luck that the book Improvement of the Mind fell into his hands, it took someone with such focus to recognize immediately its worth and exploit" -Robert Greene
"You must allow everyone the right to exist in accordance with the character he has, whatever it turns out to be: and all you should strive to do is to make use of this character in such a way as its kind of nature permits, rather than to hope for any alteration in it, or to condemn it offhand for what it is. This is the true sense of the maxim—Live and let live…. To become indignant at [people’s] conduct is as foolish as to be angry with a stone because it rolls into your path. And with many people the wisest thing you can do, is to resolve to make use of those whom you cannot alter." -Robert Greene
"As I live I must die daily My old nature I must kill" -Robert Greene
"Results are important, but the way they are achieved, the process, is equally important." -Robert Greene
"Often the greatest obstacle to our pursuit of mastery comes from the emotional drain we experience in dealing with the resistance and manipulations of the people around us. If we are not careful, our minds become absorbed in endless political intrigues and battles. The principal problem we face in the social arena is our naïve tendency to project onto people our emotional needs and desires of the moment. We misread their intentions and react in ways that cause confusion or conflict. Social intelligence is the ability to see people in the most realistic light possible. By moving past our usual self-absorption, we can learn to focus deeply on others, reading their behavior in the moment, seeing what motivates them, and discerning any possible manipulative tendencies. Navigating smoothly the social environment, we have more time and energy to focus on learning and acquiring skills. Success attained without this intelligence is not true mastery, and will not last." -Robert Greene
"Twere sin to stain fair Venus' courts with blood" -Robert Greene
"Oysters open completely when the moon is full; and when the crab sees one it throws a piece of stone or seaweed into it and the oyster cannot close again so that it serves the crab for meat. Such is the fate of him who opens his mouth too much and thereby puts himself at the mercy of the listener. Leonardo" -Robert Greene
"the next time someone pushes you and you find yourself starting to react, try this: Do not resist or fight back, but yield," -Robert Greene
"Rationality is not a power you are born with but one you acquire through training and practice." -Robert Greene
"When the evening began, Fouquet was at the top of the world. By the time it had ended, he was at the bottom. Voltaire, 1694-1778" -Robert Greene
"When we are tired, it is often because we are bored. When no real challenge faces us, a mental and physical lethargy sets in. 'Sometimes death only comes from a lack of energy,' Napoleon once said, and lack of energy comes from a lack of challenges, comes when we have taken on less than we are capable of." -Robert Greene
"For Pericles it would be nous, the ancient Greek word for 'mind' or 'intelligence.' Nous is a force that permeates the universe, creating meaning and order. The human mind is naturally attracted to this order; this is the source of our intelligence. For" -Robert Greene
"If you lose contact with this inner calling, you can have some success in life, but eventually your lack of true desire catches up with you. Your work becomes mechanical. You come to live for leisure and immediate pleasures. In this way you become increasingly passive, and never move past the first phase. You may grow frustrated and depressed, never realizing that the source of it is your alienation from your own creative potential." -Robert Greene
"Practical knowledge is the ultimate commodity, and is what will pay you dividends for decades to come—far more than the paltry increase in pay you might receive at some seemingly lucrative position that offers fewer learning opportunities" -Robert Greene
"The spider has no need to chase for food, or even to move. It quietly sits in the corner, waiting for its victims to come to it on their own, and ensnare themselves in the web." -Robert Greene
"The first step toward becoming rational is to understand our fundamental irrationality. There are two factors that should render this more palatable to our egos: nobody is exempt from the irresistible effect of emotions on the mind, not even the wisest among us; and to some extent irrationality is a function of the structure of our brains and is wired into our very nature by the way we process emotions. Being irrational is almost beyond our control." -Robert Greene
"Do not waste time on things you cannot change or influence. Just keep moving." -Robert Greene
"It must be considered that there is nothing more difficult to carry out, nor more doubtful of success, nor more dangerous to handle, than to initiate a new order of things. Niccolò Machiavelli, 1469-1527" -Robert Greene
"The world wants to assign you a role in life and once you except that role you are doomed." -Robert Greene
"First, it is essential that you begin with one skill that you can master, and that serves as a foundation for acquiring others. You must avoid at all cost the idea that you can manage learning several skills at a time." -Robert Greene
"Some people, too, are inveterately passive: they are waiting for you to make the bold move, and if you don’t, they will think you are weak." -Robert Greene
"Real pleasure comes from overcoming challenges, feeling confidence in your abilities, gaining fluency in skills, and experiencing the power this brings. You develop patience. Boredom no longer signals the need for distraction, but rather the need for new challenges to conquer. Although" -Robert Greene
"Finally, the greatest obstacle you will face in developing these powers comes from cultural prejudice against the very idea of influence: ""Why can't we all just be honest and transparent with one another, and simply asked for what we want? Why can't we just let people be with they are and not try to change them? Being strategic is ugly and manipulative.' First, when people tell you such things, you should be on guard. We humans cannot stand feelings of powerlessness. We need to have influence or we become miserable. The honestymongers are no different, but because they need to believe in their angelic qualities, they cannot square the self opinion within need to have influence. And so they often become passive aggressive, poaching and making others feel guilty as a means of getting what they want. Never take people who say such things at face value." -Robert Greene
"Sometimes this fear of speculation masquerades as skepticism. We see this in people who delight in shooting down any theory or explanation before it gets anywhere. They are trying to pass off skepticism as a sign of high intelligence, but in fact they are taking the easy route—it is quite simple to find arguments against any idea and knock it down from the sidelines." -Robert Greene
"The Vulture. Of all the creatures in the jungle, he has it the easiest. The hard work of others becomes his work; their failure to survive becomes his nourishment. Keep an eye on the Vulture - while you are hard at work, he is circling above. Do not fight him, join him." -Robert Greene
"Your first task as a strategist is to widen your concept of the enemy, to include in that group those who are working against you, thwarting you, even in subtle ways." -Robert Greene
"That is the power of formlessness — it gives the aggressor nothing to react against, nothing to hit." -Robert Greene
"Tweere sin to stain fair Venus' courts with blood" -Robert Greene
"If, on the other hand, we manage these emotions and allow time to take its course, something remarkable begins to take shape. As we continue to observe and follow the lead of others, we gain clarity, learning the rules and seeing how things work and fit together. If we keep practicing, we gain fluency; basic skills are mastered, allowing us to take on newer and more exciting challenges. We begin to see connections that were invisible to us before. We slowly gain confidence in our ability to solve problems or overcome weaknesses through sheer persistence." -Robert Greene
"But I don't consider history to be a field. It’s just all the stuff that’s happened so far. You have to call it a field so people who study what happened in the past can get a job teaching blank. But it doesn't seem to me that it’s a subject." -Robert Greene
"Hence politeness is to human nature what warmth is to wax." -Robert Greene
"We often notice a similar sensation of confusion and helplessness when it comes to ourselves and our own behavior. For instance, we suddenly say something that offends our boss or colleague or friend—we are not quite sure where it came from, but we are frustrated to find that some anger and tension from within has leaked out in a way that we regret." -Robert Greene
"This means that you yourself are largely the agent of anything bad that happens to you. With more prudence, wiser policies, and greater vision, you could have avoided the danger. So when something goes wrong, look deep into yourself—not in an emotional way, to blame yourself or indulge your feelings of guilt, but to make sure that you start your next campaign with a firmer step and greater vision." -Robert Greene
"In following your inclinations and moving toward mastery, you make a great contribution to society, enriching it with discoveries and insights, and making the most of the diversity in nature and among human society." -Robert Greene
"This hunger for the magical shortcut has survived to our day in the form of simple formulas for success, ancient secrets finally revealed in which a mere change of attitude will attract the right energy. There is a grain of truth and practicality in all of these efforts—for instance, the emphasis in magic on deep focus. But in the end all of this searching is centered on something that doesn’t exist—the effortless path to practical power, the quick and easy solution, the El Dorado of the mind." -Robert Greene
"Always make those above you feel comfortably superior." -Robert Greene
"You are not tied to a particular position; your loyalty is not to a career or a company. You are committed to your Life’s Task, to giving it full expression. It is up to you to find it and guide it correctly. It is not up to others to protect or help you. You are on your own. Change is inevitable, particularly in such a revolutionary moment as ours. Since you are on your own, it is up to you to foresee the changes going on right now in your profession. You must adapt your Life’s Task to these circumstances. You do not hold on to past ways of doing things, because that will ensure you will fall behind and suffer for it. You are flexible and always looking to adapt." -Robert Greene
"Van Gogh didn't paint for money either. He only sold two paintings in his whole lifetime. Robert:" -Robert Greene
"The career world is like an ecological system: People occupy particular fields within which they must compete for resources and survival. The more people there are crowded into a space, the harder it becomes to thrive there. Working in such a field will tend to wear you out as you struggle to get attention, to play the political games, to win scarce resources for yourself. You spend so much time at these games that you have little time left over for true mastery. You are seduced into such fields because you see others there making a living, treading the familiar path. You are not aware of how difficult such a life can be." -Robert Greene
"It is the height of stupidity to believe that in the course of your short life, your few decades of consciousness, you can somehow rewire the configurations of your brain through technology and wishful thinking, overcoming the effect of six million years of development. To go against the grain might bring temporary distraction, but time will mercilessly expose your weakness and impatience." -Robert Greene
"It is a great folly to hope that other men will harmonize with us; I have never hoped this. I have always regarded each man as an independent individual, whom I endeavored to understand with all his peculiarities, but from whom I desired no further sympathy. In this way have I been enabled to converse with every man, and thus alone is produced the knowledge of various characters and the dexterity necessary for the conduct of life. —JOHANN WOLFGANG VON GOETHE" -Robert Greene
"You must never assume that what people say or do in a particular moment is a statement of their permanent desires." -Robert Greene
"You do not belong to you. You belong to the Universe. Your significance will remain forever obscure to you, but you may assume that you are fulfilling your job if you apply yourself to converting your experiences to the advantage of others." -Robert Greene
"It might be imagined that certain people in history—the naturally gifted, the geniuses—have either somehow bypassed the Apprenticeship Phase or have greatly shortened it because of their inherent brilliance. To support such an argument, people will bring up the classic examples of Mozart and Einstein, who seemed to have emerged as creative geniuses out of nowhere. With the case of Mozart, however, it is generally agreed among classical music critics that he did not write an original and substantial piece of music until well after ten years of composing. In fact, a study of some seventy great classical composers determined that with only three exceptions, all of the composers had needed at least ten years to produce their first great work, and the exceptions had somehow managed to create theirs in nine years. Einstein began his serious thought experiments at the age of sixteen. Ten years later he came up with his first revolutionary theory of relativity. It is impossible to quantify the time he spent honing his theoretical skills in those ten years, but is not hard to imagine him working three hours a day on this particular problem, which would yield more than 10,000 hours after a decade. What in fact separates Mozart and Einstein from others is the extreme youth with which they began their apprenticeships and the intensity with which they practiced, stemming from their total immersion in the subject. It is often the case that in our younger years we learn faster, absorb more deeply, and yet retain a kind of creative verve that tends to fade as we get older." -Robert Greene
"People’s need for validation and recognition, their need to feel important, is the best kind of weakness to exploit. First, it is almost universal; second, exploiting it is so very easy. All you have to do is find ways to make people feel better about their taste, their social standing, their intelligence." -Robert Greene
"Conforming to social norms, you will listen more to others than to your own voice." -Robert Greene
"Accept people as facts." -Robert Greene
"Pindar wrote, 'Become who you are by learning who you are." -Robert Greene
"The problem in trying to prove a point or gain a victory through argument is that in the end you can never be certain how it affects the people you’re arguing with: They may appear to agree with you politely, but inside they may resent you." -Robert Greene
"These steps are: Deep Observation (The Passive Mode), Skills Acquisition (The Practice Mode), and Experimentation (The Active Mode). Keep" -Robert Greene
"Years later, a Japanese visitor tried to apologize to Mao for his country’s invasion of China. Mao interrupted, 'Should I not thank you instead?' Without a worthy opponent, he explained, a man or group cannot grow stronger." -Robert Greene
"If you are already established in a group, temporary withdrawal from it will make you more talked about, even more admired. You must learn when to leave. Create value through scarcity." -Robert Greene
"Seduction implies opening yourself up, even if only for the purposes of deception; being unable to give by spending money usually means being unable to give in general. Stamp ungenerosity out. It is an impediment to power and a gross sin in seduction." -Robert Greene
"Let a Sense of Purpose Guide You Just as a well-filled day brings blessed sleep, so a well-employed life brings blessed death. —Leonardo da Vinci" -Robert Greene
"This means that you move toward challenges that will toughen and improve you, where you will get the most objective feedback on your performance and progress. You do not choose apprenticeships that seem easy and comfortable." -Robert Greene
"Our times might emphasize equality, which we then mistake for the need for everyone to be the same, but what we really mean by this is the equal chance for people to express their differences, to let a thousand flowers bloom." -Robert Greene
"Hace falta más talento para amar que para mandar ejércitos. NINON DE L’ENCLOS" -Robert Greene
"What you need is a mental filtering system based on a scale of priorities and your long-term goals." -Robert Greene
"Human nature is stronger than any individual, than any institution or technological invention. It ends up shaping what we create to reflect itself and its primitive roots. It moves us around like pawns." -Robert Greene
"acting is an art, not a gift from God. Learn the art." -Robert Greene
"the degree of awareness represents the difference. Rational people can readily admit their own irrational tendencies and the need to be vigilant. On the other hand, irrational people become highly emotional when challenged about the emotional roots of their decisions. They are incapable of introspection and learning. Their mistakes" -Robert Greene
"You will know when your apprenticeship is over by the feeling that you have nothing left to learn in this environment." -Robert Greene
"Men of great abilities are slow to act. for it is easier to avoid occasions for committing yourself than to come well out of a commitment. Such occasions test your judgment; it is safer to avoid them than to emerge victorious from them. One obligation leads to a greater one, and you come very near to the brink of disaster. BALTASAR GRACIÁN, 1601-1658" -Robert Greene
"When you are trying to impress people with words, the more you say, the more common you appear, and the less in control. Even if you are saying something banal, it will seem original if you make it vague, open-ended, and sphinxlike. Powerful people impress and intimidate by saying less. The more you say, the more likely you are to say something foolish." -Robert Greene
"If you see yourself as an object, then others will too. An ethereal, dreamlike air will heighten the effect." -Robert Greene
"Understand: the greatest impediment to creativity is your impatience, the almost inevitable desire to hurry up the process, express something, and make a splash. What happens in such a case is that you do not master the basics; you have no real vocabulary at your disposal. What you mistake for being creative and distinctive is more likely an imitation of other people’s style, or personal rantings that do not really express anything." -Robert Greene
"50 Cent is a master player at power, a kind of hip-hop Napoleon Bonaparte." -Robert Greene
"This is the game you must play: Do whatever you can to preserve unity of command. Keep the strings to be pulled in your hands; the over-arching strategic vision must come from you and you alone. At the same time, hide your tracks. Work behind the scenes; make the group feel involved in your decisions. Seek their advice, incorporating their good ideas, politely deflecting their bad ones. If necessary, make minor, cosmetic strategy changes to assuage the insecure political animals in the group, but ultimately trust your own vision. Remember the dangers of group decision making. The first rule of effective leadership is never to relinquish your unity of command." -Robert Greene
"Lola pushed aside the sentries and entered his room anyway. In the process, the front of her dress somehow got torn (perhaps by her, perhaps by one of the sentries), and to the astonishment of all, most especially the king, her bare breasts were brazenly exposed. Lola was granted her audience with Ludwig. Fifty-five hours later she made her debut on the Bavarian stage; the reviews were terrible, but that did not stop Ludwig from arranging more performances." -Robert Greene
"In the course of your life you will be continually encountering fools. There are simply too many to avoid. We can classify people as fools by the following rubric: when it comes to practical life, what should matter is getting long-term results, and getting the work done in as efficient and creative a manner as possible. That should be the supreme value that guides people’s actions. But fools carry with them a different scale of values. They place more importance on short-term matters—grabbing immediate money, getting attention from the public or media, and looking good. They are ruled by their ego and insecurities. They tend to enjoy drama and political intrigue for their own sake. When they criticize, they always emphasize matters that are irrelevant to the overall picture or argument. They are more interested in their career and position than in the truth. You can distinguish them by how little they get done, or by how hard they make it for others to get results. They lack a certain common sense, getting worked up about things that are not really important while ignoring problems that will spell doom in the long term. The" -Robert Greene
"Preserve the unspoken option of being able to leave at any moment and reclaim your freedom if the side you are allied with starts to collapse." -Robert Greene
"By making yourself aware of the distorting process of the Naïve Perspective, you will naturally grow less comfortable with it. You will realize that you are operating in the dark, blind to people’s motivations and intentions, vulnerable to the same mistakes and patterns that occurred in the past." -Robert Greene
"Remember, your own image and presence are materials you can control. The sense that you are engaged in this kind of play will make people see you as superior and worthy of imitation." -Robert Greene
"Think of yourself as your own Zen Master. Such masters would beat their pupils and deliberately lead them to points of maximum doubt and inner tension, knowing such moments precede enlightenment." -Robert Greene
"Remember: Stirrers thrive by hiding in the group, disguising their actions among the reactions of others. Render their actions visible and they lose their power to upset." -Robert Greene
"The road to mastery requires patience. You will have to keep your focus on five or ten years down the road, when you will reap the rewards of your efforts. The process of getting there, however, is full of challenges and pleasures." -Robert Greene
"You want to retain the elasticity of spirit you had as a child, interested in everything, while retaining the hard-nosed need to verify and scrutinize for yourself all ideas and beliefs." -Robert Greene
"Self absorption is anti-seductive; it is a sign of insecurity." -Robert Greene
"Pues nada es más seductor que la paciente atención." -Robert Greene
"The leader who tries to change the group’s spirit directly—yelling, demanding, disciplining—actually plays into the teenage dynamic and reinforces the desire to rebel." -Robert Greene
"Thus for my own part I have more than once been deceived by the person I loved most and of whose love, above everyone else’s, I have been most confident. So that I believe that it may be right to love and serve one person above all others, according to merit and worth, but never to trust so much in this tempting trap of friendship as to have cause to repent of it later on. BALDASSARE CASTIGLIONE, 1478-1529" -Robert Greene
"Your most creative years are generally in your late twenties and on into your forties. You can learn what you need through books, your own practice, and occasional advice from others, but the process is hit-and-miss." -Robert Greene
"For a long time I have not said what I believed, nor do I ever believe what I say, and if indeed sometimes I do happen to tell the truth, I hide it among so many lies that it is hard to find. Niccolò Machiavelli, in a letter to Francesco Gnicciardini, May 17, 1521" -Robert Greene
"To the extent that we believe we can skip steps, avoid the process, magically gain power through political connections or easy formulas, or depend on our natural talents, we move against this grain and reverse our natural powers. We become slaves to time—as it passes, we grow weaker, less capable, trapped in some dead-end career. We become captive to the opinions and fears of others. Rather than the mind connecting us to reality, we become disconnected and locked in a narrow chamber of thought. The human that depended on focused attention for its survival now becomes the distracted scanning animal, unable to think in depth, yet unable to depend on instincts." -Robert Greene
"Once upon a time Khidr, the teacher of Moses, called upon mankind with a warning. At a certain date, he said, all the water in the world which had not been specially hoarded, would disappear. It would then be renewed, with different water, which would drive men mad. Only one man listened to the meaning of this advice. He collected water and went to a secure place where he stored it, and waited for the water to change its character. On the appointed date the streams stopped running, the wells went dry, and the man who had listened, seeing this happening, went to his retreat and drank his preserved water. When he saw, from his security, the waterfalls again beginning to flow, this man descended among the other sons of men. He found that they were thinking and talking in an entirely different way from before; yet they had no memory of what had happened, nor of having been warned. When he tried to talk to them, he realized that they thought that he was mad, and they showed hostility or compassion, not understanding. At first he drank none of the new water, but went back to his concealment, to draw on his supplies, every day. Finally, however, he took the decision to drink the new water because he could not bear the loneliness of living, behaving and thinking in a different way from everyone else. He drank the new water, and became like the rest. Then he forgot all about his own store of special water, and his fellows began to look upon him as a madman who had miraculously been restored to sanity." -Robert Greene
"Our levels of desire, patience, persistence, and confidence end up playing a much larger role in success than sheer reasoning powers. Feeling motivated and energized, we can overcome almost anything. Feeling bored and restless, our minds shut off and we become increasingly passive. In" -Robert Greene
"The Laws of Human Nature, 1: Master Your Emotional Self—The Law of Irrationality" -Robert Greene
"In dealing with fools you must adopt the following philosophy: they are simply a part of life, like rocks or furniture. All of us have foolish sides, moments in which we lose our heads and think more of our ego or short-term goals. It is human nature. Seeing this foolishness within you, you can then accept it in others. This will allow you to smile at their antics, to tolerate their presence as you would a silly child, and to avoid the madness of trying to change them." -Robert Greene
"Men are more ready to repay an injury than a benefit, because gratitude is a burden and revenge a pleasure." -Robert Greene
"THE MISER A miser, to make sure of his property, sold all that he had and converted it into a great lump of gold, which he hid in a hole in the ground, and went continually to visit and inspect it. This roused the curiosity of one of his workmen, who, suspecting that there was a treasure, when his master’s back was turned, went to the spot, and stole it away. When the miser returned and found the place empty, he wept and tore his hair. But a neighbor who saw him in this extravagant grief, and learned the cause of it, said: 'Fret thyself no longer, but take a stone and put it in the same place, and think that it is your lump of gold; for, as you never meant to use it. the one will do you as much good as the other.' The worth of money is not in its possession, but in its use. FABLES, AESOP, SIXTH CENTURY B.C." -Robert Greene
"Embrace your strangeness. Identify what makes you different. Fuse those things together and become an anomaly." -Robert Greene
"Do not accept the roles that society foists on you. Re-create yourself by forging a new identity," -Robert Greene
"We live in a world that seems increasingly beyond our control. Our livelihoods are at the whim of globalized forces. The problems that we face—economic, environmental, and so on—cannot be solved by our individual actions." -Robert Greene
"Our personalities are often molded by how we are treated: if a parent or spouse is defensive or argumentative in dealing with us, we tend to respond the same way. Never mistake people’s exterior characteristics for reality, for the character they show on the surface may be merely a reflection of the people with whom they have been most in contact, or a front disguising its own opposite. A gruff exterior may hide a person dying for warmth; a repressed, sober-looking type may actually be struggling to conceal uncontrollable emotions. That is the key to charm—feeding what has been repressed or denied." -Robert Greene
"Power is a game. This cannot be repeated too often!" -Robert Greene
"As an explorer Columbus was mediocre at best. He knew less about the sea than did the average sailor on his ships, could never determine the latitude and longitude of his discoveries, mistook islands for vast continents, and treated his crew badly. But in one area he was a genius: He knew how to sell himself." -Robert Greene
"Unfortunately there is no doubt about the fact that man is, as a whole, less good than he imagines himself or wants to be. Everyone carries a shadow, and the less it is embodied in the individual’s conscious life, the blacker and denser it is. –Carl Jung" -Robert Greene
"Hesitation puts obstacles in your path, boldness eliminates them. Once you understand this, you will find it essential to overcome your natural timidity and practice the art of audacity." -Robert Greene
"NUNCA LE HAGA SOMBRA A SU AMO" -Robert Greene
"Prize intensity more than extensity. Perfection resides in quality, not quantity. Extent alone never rises above mediocrity, and it is the misfortune of men with wide general interests that while they would like to have their finger in every pie, they have one in none. Intensity gives eminence, and rises to the heroic in matters sublime. (Baltasar Gracián, 1601-1658)" -Robert Greene
"The game you want to play is different: to instead find a niche in the ecology that you can dominate." -Robert Greene
"This energy was so powerful that it made him swing from one mood or idea to the opposite—from spirituality to sensuality, from naïveté to craftiness. This daemon, he decided, was a spirit implanted in him at birth and it encompassed his whole being. How he managed this daemon would determine the length of his life and the success of his endeavors." -Robert Greene
"So after that I had a new rule. If I’m hired by the plant engineer, I only go over his head if I’m in project failure mode. If the project is going to fail, then I'll go over his head. But as long as the project is going to come out, I never go over his head. Now, that’s a rule I still follow today." -Robert Greene
"Don’t think about why you question, simply don’t stop questioning. Don’t worry about what you can’t answer, and don’t try to explain what you can’t know. Curiosity is its own reason. Aren’t you in awe when you contemplate the mysteries of eternity, of life, of the marvelous structure behind reality? And this is the miracle of the human mind—to use its constructions, concepts, and formulas as tools to explain what man sees, feels and touches. Try to comprehend a little more each day. Have holy curiosity. —ALBERT EINSTEIN As" -Robert Greene
"Never neglect the way you arrange things visually. Factors like color, for example, have enormous symbolic resonance." -Robert Greene
"If you work on yourself first, as Faraday did, developing a solid work ethic and organizational skills, eventually the right teacher will appear in your life." -Robert Greene
"we tend to think of our behavior as largely conscious and willed. To imagine that we are not always in control of what we do is a frightening thought, but in fact it is the reality. We are subject to forces from deep within us that drive our behavior and that operate below the level of our awareness." -Robert Greene
"The men who have changed the universe have never gotten there by working on leaders, but rather by moving the masses. Working on leaders is the method of intrigue and only leads to secondary results. Working on the masses, however, is the stroke of genius that changes the face of the world. NAPOLEON BONAPARTE, 1769-1821" -Robert Greene
"El poder es, en esencia, amoral. Una de las habilidades más importantes que deberá adquirir es la capacidad de aprender a ver circunstancias, en lugar de, simplemente, el bien o el mal." -Robert Greene
"If deception is the most potent weapon in your arsenal, then patience in all things is your crucial shield." -Robert Greene
"to create a meaningful work of art or to make a discovery or invention requires great discipline, self-control, and emotional stability." -Robert Greene
"What you know must translate into action, and action must translate into knowledge. In this way strategy becomes a lifelong challenge and the source of constant pleasure in surmounting difficulties and solving problems." -Robert Greene
"Whatever is done from love always occurs beyond good and evil." -Robert Greene
"you must be careful not to let it annoy or distress you, but to look upon it merely as an addition to your knowledge" -Robert Greene
"Sometimes you are confused because you suspect sabotage or obstruction, but they present such a friendly or benign exterior. Discard the exterior and focus only on their actions and you will have a clearer picture." -Robert Greene
"Both deliberately and unconsciously, we often develop, a social exterior designed specifically to disguise our weaknesses and lacks. For instance, you may think you are dealing with someone who is tough and cynical, without realizing that deep inside they have a soft sentimental core." -Robert Greene
"Not just pain, but bullshit. Avoiding bullshit." -Robert Greene
"Throughout history we read of Masters in every conceivable form of human endeavor describing a sensation of suddenly possessing heightened intellectual powers after years of immersion in their field. The great chess Master Bobby Fischer spoke of being able to think beyond the various moves of his pieces on the chessboard; after a while he could see 'fields of forces' that allowed him to anticipate the entire direction of the match. For the pianist Glenn Gould, he no longer had to focus on notes or parts of the music he was playing, but instead saw the entire architecture of the piece and could express it. Albert Einstein suddenly was able to realize not just the answer to a problem, but a whole new way of looking at the universe, contained in a visual image he intuited. The inventor Thomas Edison spoke of a vision he had for illuminating an entire city with electric light, this complex system communicated to him through a single image. In all of these instances, these practitioners of various skills described a sensation of seeing more. They were suddenly able to grasp an entire situation through an image or an idea, or a combination of images and ideas. They experienced this power as intuition, or a fingertip feel." -Robert Greene
"But it’s not what you have that brings you victory, it’s how you use it. When you have less, you are naturally more inventive." -Robert Greene
"Second, never imagine that because the master loves you, you can do anything you want. Entire books could be written about favorites who fell out of favor by taking their status for granted, for daring to outshine." -Robert Greene
"In the face of the world's harshness and danger, organisms of any kind develop protection — a coat of armor, a rigid system, a comforting ritual. For the short term, it may work, but for the long term it spells disaster. People weighed down by a system and inflexible ways of doing things cannot move fast, cannot sense or adapt to change. They lumber around more and more slowly until they go the way of the brontosaurus. Learn to move fast and adapt or you will be eaten.The best way to avoid this fate is to assume formlessness. No predator alive can attack what it cannot see." -Robert Greene
"The character you seem to have been born with is not necessarily who you are; beyond the characteristics you have inherited, your parents, your friends, and your peers have helped to shape your personality" -Robert Greene
"I leaped headlong into the Sea and thereby became better acquainted with the Soundings, the quicksands and the rocks, than if I had stayed upon the green shore and…took tea and comfortable advice." -Robert Greene
"The problem is that you often do not know your friends as well as you imagine. Friends often agree on things in order to avoid an argument. They cover up their unpleasant qualities so as to not offend each other. They laugh extra hard at each other’s jokes. Since honesty rarely strengthens friendship, you may never know how a friend truly feels. Friends will say that they love your poetry, adore your music, envy your taste in clothes—maybe they mean it, often they do not. When you decide to hire a friend, you gradually discover the qualities he or she has kept hidden. Strangely enough, it is your act of kindness that unbalances everything." -Robert Greene
"Through our work and through getting what we need on our own, without depending on others, we can stand tall and realize our potential as humans." -Robert Greene
"Goethe epitomizes what was known in the Renaissance as the Ideal of the Universal Man—a person so steeped in all forms of knowledge that his mind grows closer to the reality of nature itself and sees secrets that are invisible to most people." -Robert Greene
"The Law of Self-sabotage Each of us has a particular way of looking at the world, of interpreting events and the actions of people around us. This is our attitude, and it determines much of what happens to us in life. If our attitude is essentially fearful, we see the negative in every circumstance. We stop ourselves from taking chances. We blame others for mistakes and fail to learn from them. If we feel hostile or suspicious, we make others feel such emotions in our presence. We sabotage our career and relationships by unconsciously creating the circumstances we fear the most. The human attitude, however, is malleable. By making our attitude more positive, open, and tolerant of other people, we can spark a different dynamic—we can learn from adversity, create opportunities out of nothing, and draw people to us. We must explore the limits of our willpower and how far it can take us. The Ultimate Freedom As a child, Anton Chekhov (1860–1904)—the future celebrated writer—faced each morning with a feeling of dread: would he be beaten that day by his father or somehow spared? Without" -Robert Greene
"Feeling bored and restless, our minds shut off and we become increasingly passive." -Robert Greene
"If you are trying to destroy an enemy who has hurt you, far better to keep him off-guard by feigning friendliness than showing your anger." -Robert Greene
"people get the mind and quality of brain that they deserve through their actions in life." -Robert Greene
"So I'd gotten rid of that negativity and I'd show, 'Well, here’s something done right. Here’s the mistake, but here’s how to fix the mistake." -Robert Greene
"The gods of power frown on the frivolous; they give ultimate satisfaction only to those who study and reflect, and punish those who skim the surfaces looking for a good time." -Robert Greene
"The infecting-character type is not restricted to women; it has nothing to do with gender." -Robert Greene
"In truth, the use of honesty is indeed a power strategy, intended to convince people of one’s noble, good-hearted, selfless character. It is a form of persuasion, even a subtle form of coercion. Finally," -Robert Greene
"The great danger is that we give in to feelings of boredom, impatience, fear, and confusion. We stop observing and learning. The process comes to a halt." -Robert Greene
"actively rebel against those forces that have pushed you away from your true path." -Robert Greene
"Everything we’ve got, or so we think, comes from natural talent and hard work. But with other people, we are quick to ascribe to them all kinds of Machiavellian tactics. This allows us to justify whatever we do, no matter the results." -Robert Greene
"Act before it becomes impossible to disentangle one strand of misery from another, or to see how the whole thing started." -Robert Greene
"And the most dangerous of their weapons was insinuation—the means by which Madame cast her spell on the young man, making him seem the aggressor, giving her the night of pleasure she desired, and safeguarding her guiltless reputation, all in one stroke." -Robert Greene
"Always say less than necessary. When you are trying to impress people with words, the more you say, the more common you appear, and the less in control. Powerful people impress by saying less. The more you say, the more likely you are to say something foolish." -Robert Greene
"Everyone understands the need for change in the abstract, but on the day-to-day level people are creatures of habit. Too much innovation is traumatic, and will lead to revolt." -Robert Greene
"What does it matter if another player, your friend or rival, intended good things and had only your interests at heart, if the effects of his action lead to so much ruin and confusion?" -Robert Greene
"the goal of an apprenticeship is not money, a good position, a title, or a diploma, but rather the transformation of your mind and character—the first transformation on the way to mastery." -Robert Greene
"What money should buy is not lifeless objects but power over people." -Robert Greene
"Instead of internalizing a bad situation, externalize it and face your enemy. It is the only way out." -Robert Greene
"You must be particularly careful to never make people feel stupid in your presence." -Robert Greene
"call them on their behavior and make them aware of it, which can often work." -Robert Greene
"intensity defeats extensity every time. When looking for sources of power to elevate you, find the one key patron, the fat cow who will give you milk for a long time to come." -Robert Greene
"One thing I designed, I’ve done a lot of work on improving kosher slaughter. They need to make a head holding device that would go on the end of the conveyer. A normal kosher head holding device, the thing is like a cradle that lifts up the head. If I have it on the end of a conveyer, how do I make this work?" -Robert Greene
"Realize this: In your struggle for power you will stir up rivalries and create enemies. There will be people you cannot win over, who will remain your enemies no matter what." -Robert Greene
"What weakens this force, what makes you not feel it or even doubt its existence, is the degree to which you have succumbed to another force in life - social pressures to conform. This counterforce can be very powerful. You want to fit into a group. Unconsciously, you might feel that what makes you different is embarrassing or painful. Your parents often act as a counterforce as well. They may seek to direct you to a career path that is lucrative and comfortable. If these counterforces become strong enough, you can lose complete contact with your uniqueness, with who you really are. Your inclination and desires become modeled on those of others." -Robert Greene
"Cultures have norms that reflect centuries of shared beliefs and ideals. Do not expect to scoff at such things with impunity. You will be punished somehow, even if just through isolation — a position of real powerlessness." -Robert Greene
"Just as Cortés’s men saw their ships as insurance, you may see this fallback as a blessing—but in fact it is a curse. It divides you. Because you think you have options, you never involve yourself deeply enough in one thing to do it thoroughly, and you never quite get what you want. Sometimes you need to run your ships aground, burn them, and leave yourself just one option: succeed or go down. Make the burning of your ships as real as possible—get rid of your safety net. Sometimes you have to become a little desperate to get anywhere." -Robert Greene
"Trust your feelings!'—But feelings are nothing final or original; behind feelings there stand judgments and evaluations which we inherit in the form of . . . inclinations, aversions. . . . The inspiration born of a feeling is the grandchild of a judgment—and often of a false judgment!—and in any event not a child of your own! To trust one’s feelings—means to give more obedience to one’s grandfather and grandmother and their grandparents than to the gods which are in us: our reason and our experience. —Friedrich Nietzsche" -Robert Greene
"First, you must see your attempt at attaining mastery as something extremely necessary and positive." -Robert Greene
"Among his various possible beings each man always finds one which is his genuine and authentic being. The voice which calls him to that authentic being is what we call 'vocation.' But the majority of men devote themselves to silencing that voice of the vocation and refusing to hear it. They manage to make a noise within themselves … to distract their own attention in order not to hear it; and they defraud themselves by substituting for their genuine selves a false course of life." -Robert Greene
"To begin this process, you need to train yourself to pay less attention to the words that people say and greater attention to their tone of voice, the look in their eye, their body language—all signals that might reveal a nervousness or excitement that is not expressed verbally. If you can get people to become emotional, they will reveal a lot more." -Robert Greene
"But true Zen never stops, never congeals into such truths. That is why everyone must constantly be pushed to the abyss, starting over and feeling their utter worthlessness as a student. Without suffering and doubts, the mind will come to rest on clichés and stay there, until the spirit dies as well. Not even enlightenment is enough. You must continually start over and challenge yourself." -Robert Greene
"the degree of awareness represents the difference. Rational people can readily admit their own irrational tendencies and the need to be vigilant. On the other hand, irrational people become highly emotional when challenged about the emotional roots of their decisions. They are incapable of introspection and learning. Their mistakes make them increasingly defensive." -Robert Greene
"Once envy eats away at someone, everything you do only makes it grow, and day by day it festers inside him. Eventually he will attack." -Robert Greene
"Our continual connection to social media makes us prone to new forms of viral emotional effects. These are not media designed for calm reflection. With their constant presence, we have less and less mental space to step back and think." -Robert Greene
"You also search out others who display a strong character and associate with them as much as possible. In this way you can assimilate their energy and their habits. And to develop some flexibility in your character, always a sign of strength, you occasionally shake yourself up, trying out some new strategy or way of thinking, doing the opposite of what you would normally do. With such work you will no longer be a slave to the character created by your earliest years and the compulsive behavior it leads to. Even further, you can now actively shape your very character and the fate that goes with it." -Robert Greene
"Ceux qui sont au-dessus de vous doivent toujours se sentir largement supérieurs. Dans votre désir de leur plaire et de les impressionner, ne vous laissez pas entraîner à faire trop étalage de vos talents, ou vous pourriez obtenir l’effet inverse : les déstabiliser en leur faisant de l’ombre. Faites en sorte que vos maîtres apparaissent plus brillants qu’ils ne sont et vous atteindrez les sommets du pouvoir." -Robert Greene
"What we most deeply desire, however, is to create our world for ourselves. Whenever we can do that, even in the slightest degree, we are happy. Now in play we create our own world..." -Robert Greene
"I got very good on the telephone tricks too. Like calling up a company and find out that the plant was going to building a new addition and getting hold of the engineering office and getting the secretary to give me the direct extension." -Robert Greene
"what people cannot control, you can control for them." -Robert Greene
"You Are Dealing With. The pseudo-belief in equality—the idea that talking and acting the same way with everyone, no matter what their rank, makes you somehow a paragon of civilization—is a terrible mistake. Those below you will take it as a form of condescension, which it is, and those above you will be offended, although they may not admit it. You must change your style and your way of speaking to suit each person. This is not lying, it is acting, and acting is an art, not a gift from God. Learn the art. This is also true for the great variety" -Robert Greene
"feeling angry and sorry for ourselves, or we opt for distractions and quick ways to dull the pain. This becomes a habit we cannot shake, and we tend to feel the generalized anxiety and emptiness that come from all this avoidance." -Robert Greene
"This is a brilliant application of the Law: Use surrender to gain access to your enemy. Learn his ways, insinuate yourself with him slowly, outwardly conform to his customs, but inwardly maintain your own culture. Eventually you will emerge victorious, for while he considers you weak and inferior, and takes no precautions against you, you are using the time to catch up and surpass him. This soft, permeable form of invasion is often the best, for the enemy has nothing to react against, prepare for, or resist. And had Japan resisted Western influence by force, it might well have suffered a devastating invasion that would have permanently altered its culture." -Robert Greene
"the powerful are often reluctant to take advice," -Robert Greene
"Never Be the Bearer of Bad News. The king kills the messenger who brings bad news: This is a cliche but there is truth to it. You must struggle and if necessary lie and cheat to be sure that the lot of the bearer of bad news falls on a colleague, never on you. Bring only good news and your approach will gladden your master." -Robert Greene
"Anger is the most destructive of emotional responses, for" -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: Embrace your strangeness. Identify what makes you different. Fuse those things together and become an anomaly." -Robert Greene
"Image: The Jaws of ingratitude. Knowing what would happen if you put a finger in the mouth of a lion, you would stay clear of it. With friends you will have no such caution, and if you hire them, they will eat you alive with ingratitude. Authority: Know how to use enemies for your own profit. You must learn to grab a sword not by its blade, which would cut you, but by the handle, which allows you to defend yourself. The wise man profits more from his enemies, than a fool from his friends. (Baltasar Gracián, 1601-1658)" -Robert Greene
"Power cannot accrue to those who squander their treasure of words." -Robert Greene
"The environment we operate in may be different, but the brain is essentially the same, and its power to learn, adapt, and master time is universal." -Robert Greene
"Powerful people never waste time. Outwardly they may play along with the game — pretending that power is shared among many — but inwardly they keep their eyes on the inevitable few in the group who hold the cards. These are the ones they work on. When troubles arise, they look for the underlying cause, the single strong character who started the stirring and whose isolation or banishment will settle the waters again." -Robert Greene
"It is often your own actions that stir up envy, your own unawareness. By becoming conscious of those actions and qualities that create envy, you can take the teeth out of it before it nibbles you to death." -Robert Greene
"Worship Athena, not Ares." -Robert Greene
"When you see several steps ahead, and plan your moves all the way to the end, you will no longer be tempted by emotion or by the desire to improvise. Your clarity will rid you of the anxiety and vagueness that are the primary reasons why so many fail to conclude their actions successfully. You see the ending and you tolerate no deviation" -Robert Greene
"What is bloated beyond its proportions inevitably collapses. The mind must not wander from goal to goal, or be distracted by success from its sense of purpose and proportion." -Robert Greene
"Follow David’s example: say or do something that can be read in more than one way, that may be superficially polite but that could also indicate a slight coolness on your part or be seen as a subtle insult. A friend may wonder but will let it pass. The secret enemy, though, will react with anger." -Robert Greene
"When you are faced with deficiencies instead of strengths and inclinations, this is the strategy you must assume: ignore your weaknesses and resist the temptation to be more like others. Instead, like Temple Grandin, direct yourself toward the small things you are good at." -Robert Greene
"What will seduce a person is the effort we expend on their behalf, showing how much we care, how much they are worth. Leaving things to chance is a recipe for disaster, and reveals that we do not take love and romance very seriously." -Robert Greene
"Fear is not designed to make us feel that we are fragile creatures in an environment full of danger. Its function is to stimulate powerful physical responses, allowing an animal to retreat in time. After the event, it is supposed to go away. An animal that cannot let go of its fears once the threat is gone will find it hard ro eat and sleep." -Robert Greene
"Once it is solid, do not let yourself get angry or defensive at the slanderous comments of your enemies—that reveals insecurity, not confidence in your reputation." -Robert Greene
"In life you must be a warrior, and war requires realism. While others may find beauty in endless dreams, warriors find it in reality, in awareness of limits, in making the most of what they have." -Robert Greene
"Los hombres son más prestos a devolver un agravio que un favor, porque la gratitud es una carga y la venganza un placer." -Robert Greene
"man should learn to detect and watch that gleam of light which flashes across his mind from within, more than the luster of the firmament of bards and sages. Yet he dismisses without notice his thought, because it is his. In every work of genius we recognize our own rejected thoughts; they come back to us with a certain alienated majesty. —RALPH WALDO EMERSON" -Robert Greene
"The more you are in contact with others, the more graceful and at ease you become. Isolation, on the other hand, engenders an awkwardness in your gestures, and leads to further isolation, as people start avoiding you." -Robert Greene
"Remember: When searching for suckers, always look for the dissatisfied, the unhappy, the insecure. Such people are riddled with weaknesses and have needs that you can fill. Their neediness is the groove in which you place your thumbnail and turn them at will." -Robert Greene
"Your enemies, those you stand sharply against, will help you to forge a support base that will not desert you. Do not crowd into the center, where everyone else is; there is no room to fight in a crowd. Polarize people, drive some of them away, and create a space for battle." -Robert Greene
"It is occasionally used to imitate the court jester, who plays the fool but knows he is smarter than the king. He talks and talks and entertains, and no one suspects that he is more than just a fool." -Robert Greene
"Being attacked is a sign that you are important enough to be a target." -Robert Greene
"Money must circulate to bring power." -Robert Greene
"What you want in warfare is room to maneuver. Tight corners spell death. Having enemies gives you options. You can play them off against each other, make one a friend as a way of attacking the other, on and on." -Robert Greene
"Your sense of pleasure becomes redefined. What offers immediate pleasure comes to seem like a distraction, an empty entertainment to help pass the time. Real pleasure comes from overcoming challenges, feeling confidence in your abilities, gaining fluency in skills, and experiencing the power this brings. You" -Robert Greene
"Challenge is pleasure." -Robert Greene
"We are all permeable to the influence of the group. What makes us more permeable is our insecurities. The less we are certain about our self-worth as individuals, the more we are unconsciously drawn toward fitting in and blending ourselves into the group spirit. Gaining the superficial approval of group members by displaying our conformity, we cover up our insecurities to ourselves and to others. But this approval is fleeting; our insecurities gnaw at us, and we must continually get people’s attention to feel validated. Your goal must be to lower your permeability by raising your self-esteem. If you feel strong and confident about what makes you unique—your tastes, your values, your own experience—you can more easily resist the group effect. Furthermore, by relying upon your work and accomplishments to anchor your self-opinion, you won’t be so tied to constantly seeking approval and attention. It is not that you become self-absorbed or cut off from the group—outwardly you do what you can to fit in, but inwardly you subject the ideas and beliefs of the group to constant scrutiny, comparing them with your own, adapting parts or all of those that have merit and rejecting others that go against your experience. You are putting the focus on the ideas themselves, not on where they come from." -Robert Greene
"Julius Caesar was perhaps the first public figure to understand the vital link between power and theater." -Robert Greene
"Leave martyrdom alone: The pendulum will swing back your way eventually, and you should stay alive to see it." -Robert Greene
"All of us want to believe that there is some purpose and meaning to our life, that we are connected to something larger than ourselves. We want to feel some weight and significance to wat we have done. Without that conviction, we experience an emptiness and depression that we will ascribe to other factors." -Robert Greene
"When I left him, I reasoned thus with myself: I am wiser than this man, for neither of us appears to know anything great and good; but he fancies he knows something, although he knows nothing; whereas I, as I do not know anything, so I do not fancy I do. In this trifling particular, then, I appear to be wiser than he, because I do not fancy I know what I do not know. —Socrates" -Robert Greene
"His mind, he decided, worked best when he had several different projects at hand, allowing him to build all kinds of connections between them." -Robert Greene
"Learning an alien culture from so deeply inside it, he could no longer accept the superiority of one particular belief or value system. To" -Robert Greene
"This game of constant duplicity most resembles the power dynamic that existed in the scheming world of the old aristocratic court." -Robert Greene
"We force ourselves to step outside our inner chamber of habitual thoughts and connect to the world, to other people, to reality." -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: No calling is superior to another. What matters is that it be tied to a personal need and inclination, and that your energy moves you toward improvement and continuous learning from experience. The Laws of Human Nature, 13: Advance with a Sense of Purpose—The Law of Aimlessness" -Robert Greene
"ignore your weaknesses and resist the temptation to be more like others." -Robert Greene
"One can have no smaller or greater mastery than mastery of oneself. —LEONARDO DA VINCI" -Robert Greene
"The problem is, when things go verbal, you drop out the detail." -Robert Greene
"No one likes feeling stupider than the next person. The trick, then, is to make your victims feel smart—and not just smart, but smarter than you are. Once convinced of this, they will never suspect that you may have ulterior motives." -Robert Greene
"En todas las esferas de la vida, nunca des la impresión de que buscas algo; esto producirá una resistencia que nunca someterás." -Robert Greene
"The eyes that seduce have no meaning, they end in the gaze, as the face with makeup ends in only pure appearance…. The scent of the panther is also a meaningless message—and behind the message the panther is invisible, as is the woman beneath her makeup." -Robert Greene
"Lincoln replied, 'do I not destroy my enemies when I make them my friends?' KEYS TO POWER It is natural to want to employ your friends when you find yourself in times of need." -Robert Greene
"If we can't get rid of our fears and so many of them lay inside of us these fears tend to color how we view the world. We shift from feeling fear because of some threat, to a having a fearful attitude towards life itself....We exaggerate the dangers and our vulnerability. We instantly focus on the adversity that is always possible. We instantly focus on the adversity that is always possible. We are generally unaware of this phenomenon because we accept it as normal. In times of prosperity, we have the luxury of fretting over things. But in times of trouble, this fearful attitude becomes particularly pernicious. Such moments are when we need to solve problems, deal with reality, and move forward, but fear is a call to retreat and retrench." -Robert Greene
"And the most common emotion of them all is the desire for pleasure and the avoidance of pain. Our thoughts almost inevitably revolve around this desire; we simply recoil from entertaining ideas that are unpleasant or painful to us. We imagine we are looking for the truth, or being realistic, when in fact we are holding on to ideas that bring a release from tension and soothe our egos, make us feel superior." -Robert Greene
"Understand: when you enter a new environment, your task is to learn and absorb as much as possible." -Robert Greene
"they all possessed that seriousness of the efficient workman which first learns to construct the parts properly before it ventures to fashion a great whole; they allowed themselves time for it, because they took more pleasure in making the little, secondary things well than in the effect of a dazzling whole. —FRIEDRICH NIETZSCHE" -Robert Greene
"The arrow shot by the archer may or may not kill a single person. But stratagems devised by a wise man can kill even babes in the womb. KAUTILYA, INDIAN PHILOSOPHER, THIRD CENTURY B.C." -Robert Greene
"Men of this type often had strong mother figures in their childhood. They became good, obedient boys, excellent students at school. Consciously they are attracted to well-educated women, to those who seem good and perfect. But unconsciously they are drawn to women who are imperfect, bad, of dubious character. They secretly crave what is the opposite of themselves. It is the classic split of the mother/whore—they want the mother figure for a wife but feel a much stronger physical attraction to the whore, the Fallen Woman, the type who likes to display her body. They have repressed the playful, sensual, and earthy sides of the character they had as boys. They are too rigid and civilized. The only way they can relate to these qualities is through women who appear to be so different from themselves. Like Swann, they find a way to idealize them with some highbrow reference that has no relation to reality. They project onto such women weakness and vulnerability. They tell themselves they want to help and protect them. But what really attracts them is the danger and naughty pleasures these women seem to promise. Underestimating the strength of such women, they often end up as their pawns. Their anima is passive and masochistic." -Robert Greene
"Understand: we can never really experience what other people are experiencing. We always remain on the outside looking in, and this is the cause of so many misunderstandings and conflicts. But the primal source of human intelligence comes from the development of mirror neurons (see here), which gives us the ability to place ourselves in the skin of another and imagine their experience. Through continual exposure to people and by attempting to think inside them we can gain an increasing sense of their perspective, but this requires effort on our part. Our natural tendency is to project onto other people our own beliefs and value systems, in ways in which we are not even aware. When it comes to studying another culture, it is only through the use of our empathic powers and by participating in their lives that we can begin to overcome these natural projections and arrive at the reality of their experience. To do so we must overcome our great fear of the Other and the unfamiliarity of their ways. We must enter their belief and value systems, their guiding myths, their way of seeing the world. Slowly, the distorted lens through which we first viewed them starts to clear up.Going deeper into their Otherness, feeling what they feel, we can discover what makes them different and learn about human nature. This applies to cultures, individuals, and even writers of books. As Nietzsche once wrote, 'As soon as you feel yourself against me you have ceased to understand my position and consequently my arguments! You have to be the victim of the same passion." -Robert Greene
"There are many paths to mastery, and if you are persistent you will certainly find one that suits you. But a key component in the process is determining your mental and psychological strengths and working with them." -Robert Greene
"The world is ruled by necessity: People change their behavior only if they have to. They will feel urgency only if their lives depend on it." -Robert Greene
"Crush the enemy' is a key strategic tenet of Sun-tzu, the fourth-century-B.C. author of The Art of War. The idea is simple: Your enemies wish you ill." -Robert Greene
"WHEN ASKING FOR HELP, APPEAL TO PEOPLE’S SELF-INTEREST, NEVER TO THEIR MERCY OR GRATITUDE" -Robert Greene
"You are your own worst enemy. You waste precious time dreaming of the future instead of engaging in the present. Since nothing seems urgent to you, you are only half involved in what you do. The only way to change is through action and outside pressure." -Robert Greene
"The feeling that we have endless time to complete our work has an insidious and debilitating effect on our minds. Our attention and thoughts become diffused. Our lack of intensity makes it hard for the brain to jolt into a higher gear. The connections do not occur. For this purpose you must always try to work with deadlines, whether real or manufactured. Faced with the slenderest amount of time to reach the end, the mind rises to the level you require. Ideas crowd upon one another." -Robert Greene
"SNEAK ACROSS THE OCEAN IN BROAD DAYLIGHT This means to create a front that eventually becomes imbued with an atmosphere or impression of familiarity, within which the strategist may maneuver unseen while all eyes are trained to see obvious familiarities. 'THE THIRTY-SIX STRATEGIES,' QUOTED IN THE JAPANESE ART OF WAR, THOMAS CLEARY, 1991" -Robert Greene
"Animals are locked in a perpetual present. They can learn from recent events, but they are easily distracted by what is in front of their eyes. Slowly, over a great period of time, our ancestors overcame this basic animal weakness. By looking long enough at any object and refusing to be distracted—even for a few seconds—they could momentarily detach themselves from their immediate surroundings. In this way they could notice patterns, make generalizations, and think ahead. They had the mental distance to think and reflect, even on the smallest scale.These early humans evolved the ability to detach and think as their primary advantage in the struggle to avoid predators and find food. It connected them to a reality other animals could not access. Thinking on this level was the single greatest turning point in all of evolution—the emergence of the conscious, reasoning mind." -Robert Greene
"In your thinking, learn to blend the analytical with the intuitive in order to become more creative." -Robert Greene
"The mind must not wander from goal to goal, or be distracted by success from its sense of purpose and proportion. What is concentrated, coherent, and connected to its past has power. What is dissipated, divided, and distended rots and falls to the ground. The bigger it bloats, the harder it falls." -Robert Greene
"If you want to tell lies that will be believed, don’t tell the truth that won’t." -Robert Greene
"You may have brilliant ideas, the kind that could revolutionize the world, but unless you can express them effectively, they will have no force, no power to enter people’s minds in a deep and lasting way." -Robert Greene
"What withdraws, what becomes scarce, suddenly seems to deserve our respect and honor. What stays too long, inundating us with its presence, makes us disdain it." -Robert Greene
"... Thoreau once said, 'Envy is the tax which all distinction must pay." -Robert Greene
"THE BLIND HEN A hen who had lost her sight, and was accustomed to scratching up the earth in search of food, although blind, still continued to scratch away most diligently. Of what use was it to the industrious fool? Another sharp-sighted hen who spared her tender feet never moved from her side, and enjoyed, without scratching, the fruit of the other’s labor. For as often as the blind hen scratched up a barley-corn, her watchful companion devoured it. FABLES, GOTTHOLD LESSING, 1729-1781" -Robert Greene
"Since you are on your own, it is up to you to foresee the changes going on right now in your profession. You must adapt your Life’s Task to these circumstances. You do not hold on to past ways of doing things, because that will ensure you will fall behind and suffer for it. You are flexible and always looking to adapt. If change is forced upon you, you must resist the temptation to overreact or feel sorry for yourself." -Robert Greene
"In the realm of power, you must ask yourself, what is the point of chasing here and there, trying to solve problems and defeat my enemies, if I never feel in control?" -Robert Greene
"The single greatest action you can take for acquiring creative power is to reverse this natural impatience. Daily Law: Imagine yourself years in the future looking back at the work you have done." -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: Think back on the moments when you felt deeply and personally connected to an activity. Think about the pleasure it brought you. In such activities are signs of your true purpose. Mastery, I: Discover Your Calling—The Life’s Task" -Robert Greene
"Making a show of one's weakness is actually a very effective strategy, subtle and deceptive, in the game of power." -Robert Greene
"The grammar of language locks us into certain forms of logic and ways of thinking. As the writer Sidney Hook put it, 'When Aristotle drew up his table of categories which to him represented the grammar of existence, he was really projecting the grammar of the Greek language on the cosmos.' Linguists have enumerated the high number of concepts that have no particular word to describe them in the English language. If there are no words for certain concepts, we tend to not think of them." -Robert Greene
"The principle is simple and must be engraved deeply in your mind: the goal of an apprenticeship is not money, a good position, a title, or a diploma, but rather the transformation of your mind and character—the first transformation on the way to mastery." -Robert Greene
"The character you seem to have been born with is not necessarily who you are… The Promethean task of the powerful is to remake yourself into a character of power. Working on yourself like clay should be one of your greatest and most pleasurable life tasks. It makes you in essence an artist - an artist creating yourself." -Robert Greene
"Warriors focus on what they do have, the strengths that they do possess and that they must use creatively. Knowing when to slow down, to renew, to retrench, they outlast their opponents. They play for the long term." -Robert Greene
"There may be fewer mighty tyrants commanding the life and death over millions, but there remain thousands of petty tyrants ruling smaller realms, and enforcing their will through indirect power games, charisma, and so on. In every group, power is concentrated in the hands of one or two people, for this is one area in which human nature will never change: People will congregate around a single strong personality like planets orbiting a sun." -Robert Greene
"One of the most potent weapons in the battle for information, then, is giving out false information. As Winston Churchill said, 'Truth is so precious that she should always be attended by a bodyguard of lies." -Robert Greene
"Mr. Shih had two sons: one loved learning; the other war. The first expounded his moral teachings at the admiring court of Ch’i and was made a tutor, while the second talked strategy at the bellicose court of Ch’u and was made a general. The impecunious Mr. Meng, hearing of these successes, sent his own two sons out to follow the example of the Shih boys. The first expounded his moral teachings at the court of Ch’in, but the King of Ch’in said: 'At present the states are quarreling violently and every prince is busy arming his troops to the teeth. If I followed this prig’s pratings we should soon be annihilated.' So he had the fellow castrated. Meanwhile, the second brother displayed his military genius at the court of Wei. But the King of Wei said: 'Mine is a weak state. If I relied on force instead of diplomacy, we should soon be wiped out. If, on the other hand, I let this fire-eater go, he will offer his services to another state and then we shall be in trouble.' So he had the fellow’s feet cut off. Both families did exactly the same thing, but one timed it right, the other wrong. Thus success depends on … rhythm. LIEH TZU, QUOTED IN THE CHINESE LOOKING GLASS, DENNIS BLOODWORTH, 1967" -Robert Greene
"Knowing what you want to accomplish in the end will help you weed out the essential from the nonessential." -Robert Greene
"The Sun. It can only be appreciated by its absence. The longer the days of rain, the more the sun is craved. But too many hot days and the sun overwhelms. Learn to keep yourself obscure and make people demand your return." -Robert Greene
"Understand: people will tend to judge you based on your outward appearance. If you are not careful and simply assume that it is best to be yourself, they will begin to ascribe to you all kinds of qualities that have little to do with who you are but correspond to what they want to see." -Robert Greene
"Never get discouraged, never be petty; always remember, others may hate you, but those who hate you don’t win unless you hate them, and then you destroy yourself." -Robert Greene
"the problem about working with friends is that it confuses the boundaries and distances that working requires." -Robert Greene
"It can be valuable to analyze what went wrong in the past, but it is far more important to develop the capacity to think in the moment. In that way you will make far fewer mistakes to analyze." -Robert Greene
"Thoạt trông thì những cảm xúc mãnh liệt về tình yêu, căm hận, hay giận dữ có thể được sử dụng để thúc đẩy bạn tiến tới một dự định nào đó, nhưng đây chỉ là một ảo tưởng. Những cảm xúc đại loại như vậy gây ra cho bạn một cơn bùng nổ nhất thời, nó sẽ nhanh chóng xẹp xuống và đưa bạn xuống vực thẳm theo cùng một kiểu như vừa đưa bạn lên cao." -Robert Greene
"He had created a monster. He had allowed a man to see power up close—a man who then wanted more, who asked for anything and got it, who felt encumbered by the charity he had received and simply did what many people do in such a situation: They forget the favors they have received and imagine they have earned their success by their own merits. At Michael’s moment of realization," -Robert Greene
"Poor is the apprentice who does not surpass his master" -Robert Greene
"The brain is designed to learn through constant repetition and active, hands-on involvement. Through such practice and persistence, any skill can be mastered." -Robert Greene
"إنك لا تستطيع أن تقلق حول إزعاج كل شخص تقابله، ولكن عليك أن تكون قاسياً بصورة انتقائية." -Robert Greene
"Todo lo bueno sucederá al fin; el pasto volverá a crecer si usted le da tiempo y sabe anticipar el futuro. La impaciencia, por su parte, sólo lo debilitará. Es la principal barrera entre usted y el poder. El poder es, en esencia, amoral. Una de las habilidades más importantes que deberá adquirir es la capacidad de aprender a ver circunstancias, en lugar de, simplemente, el bien o el mal. El poder es un juego —esto es algo que hay que reiterar una y otra vez— y en un juego usted no juzga a sus contrincantes por sus intenciones sino por el efecto de sus acciones. Usted mide la estrategia y el poder de su adversario por lo que puede ver y sentir. ¡Cuántas veces se hace hincapié en las intenciones de alguien, sólo para disimular el engaño! ¿Qué importancia tiene si otro jugador, ya sea amigo o rival, tiene buenas intenciones y sólo piensa en los intereses de usted, si los efectos de su acción conducen a" -Robert Greene
"those misfortunates among us who have been brought down by circumstances beyond their control deserve all the help and sympathy we can give them" -Robert Greene
"This law applies not only to war but to everyday situations. People are always trying to read the motives behind your actions and to use your predictability against you. Throw in a completely inexplicable move and you put them on the defensive. Because they do not understand you, they are unnerved, and in such a state you can easily intimidate them." -Robert Greene
"Quien pregunta a un adivino cuál será su futuro, sin querer ignora una intuición interior de las cosas por venir, que es mil veces más exacta que cualquier cosa que el adivino pueda decirle. WALTER BENJAMIN, 1892-1940" -Robert Greene
"We imagine we’re acting of our own free will, unaware of how deeply our susceptibility to the emotions of others in the group is affecting what we do and how we respond." -Robert Greene
"Work every day on improving those skills that mesh with your unique spirit and purpose" -Robert Greene
"To learn by example is to submit to authority. You follow your master because you trust his manner of doing things even when you cannot analyze and account in detail for its effectiveness" -Robert Greene
"No power is made available by ignoring images and symbols. There is no possible reversal to this law." -Robert Greene
"If you have a rebellious or naturally eccentric streak, as is often the case with those who are aiming for mastery, you must be careful in displaying your difference too overtly, particularly in the Apprenticeship Phase. Let your work subtly demonstrate your individual spirit, but when it comes to matters of politics, morals, and values, make a show of adhering to the accepted standards of your environment." -Robert Greene
"Emotions tend to narrow the mind, making us focus on one or two ideas that satisfy our immediate desire for power or attention, ideas that usually backfire." -Robert Greene
"Everything in nature has a structure, a way that the parts relate to one another, which is generally fluid and not so easy to conceptualize." -Robert Greene
"At a certain point, you can almost become a stranger to yourself." -Robert Greene
"He would not preach or criticise, but rather set a proper example" -Robert Greene
"You will learn that as a leader your best means of moving people in your direction lies in setting the right tone through your attitude, empathy, and work ethic." -Robert Greene
"People never do something just once." -Robert Greene
"Things that happened hundreds of years ago are very much a part of your thinking right now...The past lives in us." -Robert Greene
"She used the closeness of death to teach her what really matters and to help her steer clear of the petty squabbles and concerns that plagued others. She used it to anchor herself in the present, to make her appreciate every moment and every encounter." -Robert Greene
"¡No hables de talentos concedidos, innatos! Sería posible mencionar a toda clase de grandes hombres muy poco dotados. Adquirieron grandeza, se volvieron 'genios' (como solemos decirlo) gracias a cualidades de cuya falta nadie se vanagloriaría: todos poseían la seriedad del trabajador eficiente que aprende a armar las partes antes de aventurarse a formar un todo grandioso; y se dieron tiempo para ello porque disfrutaban más de hacer bien las pequeñas cosas secundarias que del efecto de un conjunto deslumbrante. —FRIEDRICH NIETZSCHE" -Robert Greene
"Cerca de 2.600 anos atrás, Píndaro, poeta da Grécia Antiga, escreveu: 'Torna-te quem és aprendendo quem és.' O que ele queria dizer com isso é o seguinte: você nasceu com determinada compleição e com certas tendências que o caracterizam. Algumas pessoas nunca se tornam quem são em seu âmago; param de confiar em si mesmas, sujeitam-se às preferências alheias e acabam usando uma máscara que oculta sua verdadeira natureza." -Robert Greene
"Once the words are out, you cannot take them back. Keep them under control." -Robert Greene
"Operating with long-term goals will bring you tremendous clarity and resolve. These goals—a project or business to create, for instance—can be relatively ambitious, enough to bring out the best in you. The problem, however, is that they will also tend to generate anxiety as you look at all you have to do to reach them from the present vantage point. To manage such anxiety, you must create a ladder of smaller goals along the way, reaching down to the present. Such objectives are simpler the further down the ladder you go, and you can realize them in relatively short time frames, giving you moments of satisfaction and a sense of progress." -Robert Greene
"The Reality: Change is slow and gradual. It requires hard work, a bit of luck, a fair amount of self-sacrifice, and a lot of patience. The Fantasy: A sudden transformation will bring a total change in one’s fortunes, bypassing work, luck, self-sacrifice, and time in one fantastic stroke." -Robert Greene
"Given how important the idea of intelligence is to most people’s vanity, it is critical never inadvertently to insult or impugn a person’s brain power. That is an unforgivable sin. But if you can make this iron rule work for you, it opens up all sorts of avenues of deception. Subliminally reassure people that they are more intelligent than you are, or even that you are a bit of a moron, and you can run rings around them. The feeling of intellectual superiority you give them will disarm their suspicion-muscles." -Robert Greene
"Make yourself the flame and you will rise to the top. Since life is otherwise so full of unpleasantness and pleasure so scarce, you will be as indispensable as food and drink." -Robert Greene
"Cuanto menos intentemos, menos riesgo tendremos de fracasar." -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: Do something that makes you feel at the peak of your being today. Mastery, I: Discover Your Calling—The Life’s Task" -Robert Greene
"Inflaming Individuals There are people in the world who by their nature tend to trigger powerful emotions in almost everyone they encounter." -Robert Greene
"lo que separa a quienes dominan un campo de los muchos que sencillamente ejercen un empleo es una cualidad emocional. El nivel de nuestro deseo, paciencia, persistencia y seguridad termina por desempeñar en el éxito un papel mucho más importante que la posesión de facultades mentales extraordinarias. Si nos sentimos motivados y vigorizados podemos vencer casi todo." -Robert Greene
"... the moment when you stop has great dramatic import. What comes last sticks in the mind as a kind of exclamation point. There is no better time to stop and walk away than after a victory.... As lawyers say of cross-examination, ""Always stop with a victory." -Robert Greene
"A man grows bored with a woman, no matter how beautiful; he yearns for different pleasures, and for adventure. All a woman needs to turn this around is to create the illusion that she offers such variety and adventure. A man is easily deceived by appearances; he has a weakness for the visual." -Robert Greene
"In any event, it is always best to cultivate self-reliance and tell saviors to save themselves." -Robert Greene
"In the face of the Sublime, we feel a shiver, a foretaste of death itself, something too large for our minds to encompass. And for a moment it shakes us out of our smugness and releases us from the deathlike grip of habit and banality." -Robert Greene
"Thus it is plain that faults that are evident to the senses, gross and corporal, or otherwise notorious to the world, we know by our enemies sooner than by our friends and familiars. PLUTARCH, C. A.D. 46-120" -Robert Greene
"Al maestro cuchillada." -Robert Greene
"If you want to test a man’s character, give him power." -Robert Greene
"Character is destiny. —Heraclitus" -Robert Greene
"Chi non stima, vien stimato," -Robert Greene
"Una mezcla de cualidades sugiere profundidad, lo que fascina tanto como confunde." -Robert Greene
"Wisdom is not a product of schooling but of the lifelong attempt to acquire it. —Albert Einstein" -Robert Greene
"It is a game. Your opponent sits opposite you. Both of you behave as gentlemen or ladies, observing the rules of the game and taking nothing personally. You play with a strategy and you observe your opponent’s moves with as much calmness as you can muster. In the end, you will appreciate the politeness of those you are playing with more than their good and sweet intentions. Train your eye to follow the results of their moves, the outward circumstances, and do not be distracted by anything else." -Robert Greene
"مستقبل الجنس البشري يعتمد على قدرتنا على تجاوز هذه النزعة القبلية، ومعرفة أن مصيرنا مرتبط بمصير الآخرين كلهم، فنحن نوع حي واحد، وكلنا ننحدر من الأسلاف أنفسهم، وجميعنا إخوة وأخوات، والفوارق بيننا هي في غالبيتها وهمٌ، وتصور وجود الفوارق هو جزء من جنون الجماعات، فعلينا النظر إلى أنفسنا كأننا جماعة واقعية كبيرة واحدة، نشعر بإحساس عميق بالانتماء إليها، ويتطلب منا حلُّ المشكلات التي صنعها الإنسان وتهددُ حياتنا التعاونَ على مستوًى عالٍ جدًّا، وأن تكون لدينا الروح العملية التي تفتقدها القبيلة." -Robert Greene
"Anything that is alive is in a continual state of change and movement. The moment that you rest, thinking that you have attained the level you desire, a part of your mind enters a phase of decay." -Robert Greene
"The strategies that succeed in war, whether conventional or unconventional, are based on timeless psychology, and great military failures have much to teach us about human stupidity and the limits of force in any arena." -Robert Greene
"You must think more like a writer in approaching the people you deal with, even the worst sorts." -Robert Greene
"By yielding, you in fact control the situation, because your surrender is part of a larger plan to lull them into believing they have defeated you. This is the essence of the surrender tactic: Inwardly you stay firm, but outwardly you bend. Deprived of a reason to get angry, your opponents will often be bewildered instead." -Robert Greene
"Often it is the quiet ones, those who give out less at first glance, who hide greater depths, and who secretly wield greater power." -Robert Greene
"The reason is simple—humans are extremely susceptible to the moods, emotions, and even the ways of thinking of those with whom they spend their time." -Robert Greene
"To become indignant at [people’s] conduct is as foolish as to be angry with a stone because it rolls into your path." -Robert Greene
"For us, the split between our emotions and our cognition is a source of constant internal friction, comprising a second Emotional Self within us that operates beyond our will." -Robert Greene
"Fortunately, to acquire rationality is not complicated. It simply requires knowing and working through a three-step process. First, we must become aware of what we shall call low-grade irrationality. This is a function of the continual moods and feelings that we experience in life, below the level of consciousness. When we plan or make decisions, we are not aware of how deeply these moods and feelings skew the thinking process." -Robert Greene
"You want to embrace negative experiences, limitations, and even pain as the perfect means of building your skill levels and sharpening your sense of purpose." -Robert Greene
"Never do yourself what others can do for you." -Robert Greene
"Be careful in assembling this team that you are not seduced by expertise and intelligence. Character, the ability to work under you and with the rest of the team, and the capacity to accept responsibility and think independently are equally key." -Robert Greene
"As women come to attain more leadership positions, this less obtrusive style of authority might begin to alter our perception of some of the dominance cues so long associated with power." -Robert Greene
"You do not hold on to past ways of doing things, because that will ensure you will fall behind and suffer for it. You are flexible and always looking to adapt." -Robert Greene
"I had much rather be confined to one element, and be admired in that, than be a goose in all!" -Robert Greene
"When you no longer surprise anyone, you give others the impression that they have found you out. Turn the tables: be deliberately unpredictable." -Robert Greene
"We can call this power intuition, but intuition is nothing more than a sudden and immediate seizing of what is real, without the need for words or formulas." -Robert Greene
"His approach in these cases was to imagine that each person, no matter how twisted, has a reason for what they’ve become, a logic that makes sense to them. In their own way, they are striving for fulfillment, but irrationally. By stepping back and imagining their story from the inside, Chekhov demythologized the brutes and aggressors; he cut them down to human size. They no longer elicited hatred but rather pity." -Robert Greene
"In the heat of battle, the mind tends to lose its balance. Too many things confront you at the same time—unexpected setbacks, doubts and criticisms from your own allies. There’s a danger of responding emotionally, with fear, depression, or frustration. It is vital to keep your presence of mind, maintaining your mental powers whatever the circumstances. You must actively resist the emotional pull of the moment—staying decisive, confident, and aggressive no matter what hits you. Make the mind tougher by exposing it to adversity." -Robert Greene
"Al varón sabio más le aprovechan sus enemigos que al necio sus amigos." -Robert Greene
"Make a list of the people in your life who live with purpose. Prioritize spending more time with them." -Robert Greene
"My policy is to have no policy.ABRAHAM LINCOLN, 1809–1865" -Robert Greene
"También aquí, quienes hacen gala de su inocencia suelen ser los menos inocentes." -Robert Greene
"Finally, power itself always exists in concentrated forms. In any organization it is inevitable for a small group to hold the strings. And often it is not those with the titles. In the game of power, only the fool flails about without fixing his target." -Robert Greene
"Es más fácil soportar una mala conciencia que una mala reputación. FRIEDRICH NIETZSCHE, 1844-1900" -Robert Greene
"An understanding of people’s hidden motives is the single greatest piece of knowledge you can have in acquiring power." -Robert Greene
"synesthesia—moments in which the stimulation of one sense provokes another." -Robert Greene
"So it is important to judge over time whether a person is rational or irrational. Can they sustain success and hit upon several good strategies? Can they adjust and learn from failures?" -Robert Greene
"Only some inner drive—pleasure, love—can help us overcome obstacles, prepare a path, and lift us out of the narrow circle in which others tread out their anguished, miserable existences!" -Robert Greene
"Whenever you notice rising pressure and stress levels in your life, you must watch yourself carefully. Monitor any signs of unusual brittleness or sensitivity, sudden suspicions, fears disproportionate to the circumstances. Observe with as much detachment as possible, finding time and space to be alone. You need perspective. Never imagine that you are someone who can withstand rising stress without emotional leakage. It is not possible. But through self-awareness and reflection you can prevent yourself from making decisions you will come to regret." -Robert Greene
"Everything you see or hear is a sign for you to decode." -Robert Greene
"To hold an idea and convince ourselves we arrived at it rationally, we go in search of evidence to support our view. What could be more objective or scientific? But because of the pleasure principle and its unconscious influence, we manage to find the evidence that confirms what we want to believe. This is known as confirmation bias." -Robert Greene
"Power" -Robert Greene
"He did not merely socialize—he strained to understand people at their core and to uncover their secret motivations. He did not just analyze his own psychology but went so deeply into the various levels of consciousness he found within himself that he developed insights about the functioning of memory that foreshadowed many discoveries in neuroscience." -Robert Greene
"Your strategy must be twofold: First, to realize as early as possible that you have chosen your career for the wrong reasons, before your confidence takes a hit. And second, to actively rebel against those forces that have pushed you away from your true path. Scoff at the need for attention and approval—they will lead you astray. Feel some anger and resentment at the parental forces that want to foist upon you an alien vocation. It is a healthy part of your development to follow a path independent of your parents and to establish your own identity. Let your sense of rebellion fill you with energy and purpose." -Robert Greene
"Learning how to learn is the most important skill to acquire." -Robert Greene
"we all have a tendency to do the following: When we make a mistake, we attribute it to circumstances that pushed us into doing it. But when others make a mistake, we tend to see it as a character flaw, as something that flowed from their imperfect personality. This is known as the attribution bias. You must work against this. With an empathic attitude, you consider first the circumstances that might have made a person do what they did, giving them the same benefit of the doubt as you give yourself." -Robert Greene
"Over the centuries, people have placed a wall around such mastery. They have called it genius and have thought of it as inaccessible. They have seen it as the product of privilege, inborn talent, or just the right alignment of the stars. They have made it seem as if it were as elusive as magic. But that wall is imaginary. This is the real secret: the brain that we possess is the work of six million years of development, and more than anything else, this evolution of the brain was designed to lead us to mastery, the latent power within us all." -Robert Greene
"Everyone is caught up in a chain of events that long predates the present moment. Our anger often stems from problems in our childhood, from the problems of our parents which stem from their own childhood, on and on. Our anger also has roots in the many interactions with others, the accumulated disappointments and heartaches that we have suffered. An individual will often appear as the instigator of our anger but it is much more complicated, goes far beyond what that individual did to us. If a person explodes with anger at you (and it seems out of proportion to what you did to them), you must remind yourself that it is not exclusively directed at you—do not be so vain. The cause is much larger, goes way back in time, involves dozens of prior hurts, and is actually not worth the bother to understand. Instead of seeing it as a personal grudge, look at the emotional outburst as a disguised power move, an attempt to control or punish you cloaked in the form of hurt feelings and anger." -Robert Greene
"For many people, the pursuit of money and status can supply them with plenty of motivation and focus. Such types would consider figuring out their calling in life a monumental waste of time and an antiquated notion. But in the long run this philosophy often yields the most impractical of results. We all know the effects of 'hyperintention': If we want and need desperately to sleep, we are less likely to fall asleep. If we absolutely must give the best talk possible at some conference, we become hyperanxious about the result, and the performance suffers. If we desperately need to find an intimate partner or make friends, we are more likely to push them away. If instead we relax and focus on other things, we are more likely to fall asleep or give a great talk or charm people. The most pleasurable things in life occur as a result of something not directly intended and expected. When we try to manufacture happy moments, they tend to disappoint us. The same goes for the dogged pursuit of money and success. Many of the most successful, famous, and wealthy individuals do not begin with an obsession with money and status. One prime example would be Steve Jobs, who amassed quite a fortune in his relatively short life. He actually cared very little for material possessions. His singular focus was on creating the best and most original designs, and when he did so, good fortune followed him." -Robert Greene
"n the treetops, this powerful vision was built for speed—seeing and reacting quickly. On the open grassland, it was the opposite. Safety and finding food relied upon slow, patient observation of the environment, on the ability to pick out details and focus on what they might mean. Our ancestors’ survival depended on the intensity of their attention. The longer and harder they looked, the more they could distinguish between an opportunity and a danger. If they simply scanned the horizon quickly they could see a lot more, but this would overload the mind with information—too many details for such sharp vision. The human visual system is not built for scanning, as a cow’s is, but for depth of focus." -Robert Greene
"Be particularly careful with sarcasm: The momentary satisfaction you gain with your biting words will be outweighed by the price you pay." -Robert Greene
"Going deeper into their Otherness, feeling what they feel, we can discover what makes them different and learn about human nature." -Robert Greene
"Those who seek to achieve things should show no mercy. Kautilya, Indian philosopher third century B.C." -Robert Greene
"Find the Helpless Child. Most weaknesses begin in childhood, before the self builds up compensatory defenses. Perhaps the child was pampered or indulged in a particular area, or perhaps a certain emotional need went unfulfilled; as he or she grows older, the indulgence or the deficiency may be buried but never disappears. Knowing about a childhood need gives you a powerful key to a person’s weakness. One sign of this weakness is that when you touch on it the person will often act like a child. Be on the lookout, then, for any behavior that should have been outgrown. If your victims or rivals went without something important, such as parental support, when they were children, supply it, or its facsimile. If they reveal a secret taste, a hidden indulgence, indulge it. In either case they will be unable to resist you." -Robert Greene
"Las ostras se abren por completo en luna llena; y cuando el cangrejo ve una, arroja en ella una piedra o alga marina y la ostra no puede volver a cerrarse, así que sirve de alimento al cangrejo. Tal es el destino de quien abre demasiado la boca y se pone de ese modo a merced del oyente." -Robert Greene
"Not only is a man not obliged to be grateful, gratitude is often a terrible burden that he gladly discards." -Robert Greene
"In the nineteenth century another great change occurred: politicians like Napoleon consciously saw themselves as seducers, on a grand scale. These men depended on the art of seductive oratory, but they also mastered what had once been feminine strategies: staging vast spectacles, using theatrical devices, creating a charged physical presence. All this, they learned, was the essence of charisma—and remains so today. By seducing the masses they could accumulate immense power without the use of force." -Robert Greene
"Muchas suspiran por el placer que huye / y aborrecen al que se les brinda; / insta con menos fervor / y dejarás de parecerle inoportuno. / No siempre han de delatar tus agasajos la esperanza / del triunfo; en ocasiones conviene que el amor / se insinúe disfrazado con el nombre de amistad. / He visto más de una mujer intratable sucumbir / a esta prueba, y al que antes era / su amigo convertirse por fin en su amante." -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: Rationality is something to be acquired by individuals, not by mass movements or technological progress." -Robert Greene
"This is the essence of the surrender tactic: Inwardly you stay firm, but outwardly you bend." -Robert Greene
"The weakness stems from our natural tendency to overestimate our skills. We normally have a self-opinion that is somewhat elevated in relation to reality." -Robert Greene
"People have become more obvious and forthright not out of some deep moral calling but out of increasing self-absorption and overall laziness. It requires no effort to simply be oneself or to blast one’s message. And the lack of effort simply results in a lack of effect on other people’s psychology. It means that people’s interest in you will be paper thin. Their attention will quickly move on and you will not see the reason for this. Do not swallow the easy moralism of the day, which urges honesty at the expense of desirability. Go in the opposite direction. With so few people out there who understand the art of desirability, it affords you endless opportunities to shine and exploit people’s repressed fantasies." -Robert Greene
"A Mine Full of Diamonds and Rubies. You dug for it, you found it, and your wealth is now assured. Guard it with your life. Robbers and thieves will appear from all sides. Never take your wealth for granted, and constantly renew it—time will diminish the jewels’ luster, and bury them from sight." -Robert Greene
"Sir Walter Raleigh was one of the most brilliant men at the court of Queen Elizabeth of England. He had skills as a scientist, wrote poetry still recognized as among the most beautiful writing of the time, was a proven leader of men, an enterprising entrepreneur, a great sea captain, and on top of all this was a handsome, dashing courtier who charmed his way into becoming one of the queen's favorites.... In the end, the reason he was executed was treason, but envy will use any cover it finds to mask its destructiveness." -Robert Greene
"Humans are creatures of habit with an insatiable need to see familiarity in other people’s actions. Your predictability gives them a sense of control. Turn the tables: Be deliberately unpredictable. Behavior that seems to have no consistency or purpose will keep them off-balance, and they will wear themselves out trying to explain your moves. Taken to an extreme, this strategy can intimidate and terrorize." -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: The person with the more global perspective wins. Expand your gaze." -Robert Greene
"Once Count Victor Lustig, swindler par excellence, had sold dozens of suckers around the country a phony box with which he claimed to be able to copy money. Discovering" -Robert Greene
"There is nothing worse than feeling dependent on other people. Dependency makes you vulnerable to all kinds of emotions—betrayal, disappointment, frustration—that play havoc with your mental balance." -Robert Greene
"I deliberately ignored these things because I knew they weren't interesting. You can do a lot by avoiding bad as opposed to seeking good." -Robert Greene
"Think of the workplace as a kind of theater in which you are always wearing a mask. (Reserve your most interesting and colorful thoughts for your friends, and for those whom you can trust outside work.)" -Robert Greene
"Se existe um ideal a ser alcançado, deve ser o do guerreiro estratégico, o homem ou a mulher que administra situações difíceis e pessoas por meio de manobras hábeis e inteligentes." -Robert Greene
"Es más fácil soportar la mala conciencia que la mala fama." -Robert Greene
"Every minute of every day we are aging; every encounter with others alters and shapes our ideas; we are a continuous work in progress, never quite the same. As Heraclitus once said, 'You cannot step into the same river twice; it is not the same river, and you are not the same person." -Robert Greene
"Remember: It takes patience and humility to dull your brilliant colors, to put on the mask of the inconspicuous. Do not despair at having to wear such a bland mask—it is often your unreadability that draws people to you and makes you appear a person of power." -Robert Greene
"Think back on the moments when you felt deeply and personally connected to an activity. Think about the pleasure it brought you. In such activities are signs of your true purpose." -Robert Greene
"The higher is the more truly human side of our nature, the side that makes us thoughtful and self-aware. Because the higher impulse is weaker, connecting to it requires effort and insight." -Robert Greene
"What Makes You Feel More Alive?" -Robert Greene
"If one ember is left alight, no matter how dimly it smolders, a fire will eventually break out. More is lost through stopping halfway than through total annihilation" -Robert Greene
"For each weakness there is a corresponding strength." -Robert Greene
"Use Resistance and Negative Spurs Every negative is a positive. The bad things that happen to me, I somehow make them good. —50 Cent" -Robert Greene
"People rarely believe that their problems arise from their own misdeeds and stupidity. Someone or something out there is to blame-the other, the world, the gods- and so salvation comes from the outside as well." -Robert Greene
"The world is dying for bolder ideas, for people who are not afraid to speculate and investigate. Creeping conservatism will narrow your searches, tether you to comfortable ideas, and create a downward spiral—as the creative spark leaves you, you will find yourself clutching even more forcefully to dead ideas, past successes, and the need to maintain your status. Make creativity rather than comfort your goal and you will ensure far more success for the future." -Robert Greene
"Lost in Trivia" -Robert Greene
"Know how to make use of stupidity: The wisest man plays this card at times. There are occasions when the highest wisdom consists in appearing not to know—you must not be ignorant but capable of playing it. It is not much good being wise among fools and sane among lunatics. He who poses as a fool is not a fool. The best way to be well received by all is to clothe yourself in the skin of the dumbest of brutes. (Baltasar Gracián, 1601–1658)" -Robert Greene
"Sus repliegues las vuelven misteriosas, y las engrandecemos en nuestra imaginación." -Robert Greene
"Boldness and hesitation elicit very different psychological responses in their targets: Hesitation puts obstacles in your path, boldness eliminates them." -Robert Greene
"What withdraws, what becomes scarce, suddenly seems to deserve our respect and honor. What stays too long, inundating us with its presence, makes us disdain it. In the Middle Ages, ladies were constantly putting their knights through" -Robert Greene
"la importancia de mantener las relaciones más estrechas posible con los clientes; la necesidad de conservar las ideas en el nivel más simple y realista posible; el valor de crear un producto superior y de ganar por habilidad, en oposición a hacer que todo apunte a ganar dinero." -Robert Greene
"It is easy to be overwhelmed by everything that faces you in battle, where so many people are asking or telling you what to do." -Robert Greene
"overtly play the Machiavellian leader—that only works" -Robert Greene
"In the battle of the intelligent against the brutal and the aggressive, the surrender tactic is the supreme weapon." -Robert Greene
"1658) REVERSAL" -Robert Greene
"Never take it for granted that your past successes will continue in the future. Actually, your past successes are your biggest obstacle: every battle, every war, is different, and you cannot assume that what worked before will work today." -Robert Greene
"Gardez-vous de vos amis : beaucoup vous trahiront par envie. D’autres se montreront gâtés, tyranniques. Un ancien ennemi que vous engagez sera plus loyal qu’un ami parce qu’il devra faire ses preuves. En fait, vous avez plus à craindre de vos amis que de vos ennemis. Si vous n’avez pas d’ennemis, trouvez le moyen de vous en faire." -Robert Greene
"harbored" -Robert Greene
"People are constantly trying to influence us, to tell us what to do, and just as often we tune them out, resisting their attempts at persuasion. There is a moment in our lives, however, when we all act differently—when we are in love. We fall under a kind of spell. Our minds are usually preoccupied with our own concerns; now they become filled with thoughts of the loved one. We grow emotional, lose the ability to think straight, act in foolish ways that we would never do otherwise. If this goes on long enough something inside us gives way: we surrender to the will of the loved one, and to our desire to possess them." -Robert Greene
"Mao actually encouraged China’s disagreements with the Soviet Union and the United States; without clear-cut enemies, he believed, his people would lose any sense of what Chinese Communism meant. A sharply defined enemy is a far stronger argument for your side than all the words you could possibly put together." -Robert Greene
"The Black Sheep. The herd shuns the black sheep, uncertain whether or not it belongs with them. So it straggles behind, or wanders away from the herd, where it is cornered by wolves and promptly devoured. Stay with the herd—there is safety in numbers. Keep your differences in your thoughts and not in your fleece." -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: Return to the harder or softer sides of your character that you have lost or repressed. The Laws of Human Nature, 12: Reconnect to the Masculine or Feminine within You—The Law of Gender Rigidity" -Robert Greene
"Most men are ruled by the heart, not the head. Their plans are vague, and when they meet obstacles they improvise. But improvisation will only bring you as far as the next crisis, and is never a substitute for thinking several steps ahead and planning to the end." -Robert Greene
"it is more important to understand and deal with the bad stuff since the good stuff will take care of itself." -Robert Greene
"Depende de tus propias armas. En la búsqueda del éxito en la vida, la gente tiende a depender de cosas que parecen simples y fáciles o que han funcionado antes. Esto podría significar acumular riqueza, recursos, un gran número de aliados o la más reciente tecnología y la ventaja que conlleva. Pero esto es ser materialista y mecánico. La verdadera estrategia es psicológica; cuestión de inteligencia, no de fuerza material." -Robert Greene
"The Great German general Erwin Rommel once made a distinction between a gamble and a risk. Both cases involve an action with only a chance of success, a chance that is heightened by acting with boldness. The difference is that with a risk, if you lose, you can recover: your reputation will suffer no long-term damage, your resources will not be depleted, and you can return to your original position with acceptable losses. With a gamble, on the other hand, defeat can lead to a slew of problems that are likely to spiral out of control. With a gamble there tend to be too many variables to complicate the picture down the road if things go on. The problem goes further: if you encounter difficulties in a gamble, it becomes harder to pull out—you realize that the stakes are too high; you cannot afford to lose. So you try harder to rescue the situation, often making it worse and sinking deeper in to the hole that you cannot get out of. People are drawn into gambles by their emotions: they see only glittering prospects if they win and ignore the ominous consequences if the lose. Taking risks is essential; gambling is foolhardy. It can be years before you recover from a gamble, if you recover at all." -Robert Greene
"Listen to Your Inner Authority" -Robert Greene
"This is a lesson that the stars in the sky teach us—they may be related to the sun, and just as brilliant, but they never appear in her company. (Baltasar Gracián, 1601-1658)" -Robert Greene
"The human that depended on focused attention for its survival now becomes the distracted scanning animal, unable to think in depth, yet unable to depend on instincts. It is the height of stupidity to believe that in the course of your short life, your few decades of consciousness, you can somehow rewire the configurations of your brain through technology and wishful thinking, overcoming the effect of six million years of development." -Robert Greene
"yesterday’s triumph is easily followed by tomorrow’s failure." -Robert Greene
"People tend to wear the mask that shows them off in the best possible light—humble, confident, diligent. They say the right things, smile, and seem interested in our ideas. They learn to conceal their insecurities and envy. If we take this appearance for reality, we never really know their true feelings, and on occasion we are blindsided by their sudden resistance, hostility, and manipulative actions. Fortunately, the mask has cracks in it. People continually leak out their true feelings and unconscious desires in the nonverbal cues they cannot completely control—facial expressions, vocal inflections, tension in the body, and nervous gestures. You must master this language by transforming yourself into a superior reader of men and women. Armed with this knowledge, you can take the proper defensive measures. On the other hand, since appearances are what people judge you by, you must learn how to present the best front and play your role to maximum effect." -Robert Greene
"Verbal argument has one vital use in the realm of power: To distract and cover your tracks when you are practicing deception or are caught in a lie. In such cases it is to your advantage to argue with all the conviction you can muster. Draw the other person into an argument to distract them from your deceptive move." -Robert Greene
"Second, the Laws will make you a master interpreter of the cues that people continually emit, giving you a much greater ability to judge their character." -Robert Greene
"الخطوة الأولى لتكون إنسانًا عقلانيًّا هي في أن تفهم ما فيك من لاعقلانية متأصلة،" -Robert Greene
"Antes que nada, quisiera dar las gracias a Anna Biller por sus incontables contribuciones a este libro:" -Robert Greene
"No te dejes engañar por la reprobación superficial que tu actitud de dandy puede provocar. Aun si la sociedad propala su desconfianza de la androginia (en la teología cristiana Satanás suele representarse como andrógino), con eso no hace otra cosa que esconder su fascinación por ella; lo más seductor es con frecuencia lo más reprimido." -Robert Greene
"if we feel in general mistrustful of any kind of authority, we will succumb to the belief that we can just as easily learn something on our own, that being self-taught is more authentic. We might justify this attitude as a sign of our independence, but in fact it stems from basic insecurity." -Robert Greene
"Pero hacía otra vez lo inesperado, encauzando un ejército por una estrecha abertura en la Selva Negra y lanzándolo directamente contra Mack." -Robert Greene
"Deceitful murderer of a quiet mind" -Robert Greene
"Ideas as things to play with; if you hold onto them for too long, they become something dead...connecting to the world is more important than holding onto your ego" -Robert Greene
"وثانياً: إياك أن تتصوَّر أبداً أنك تستطيع أن تفعل ما تريد لأن السيد يحبّك. فهناك كتب بكاملها يمكن تأليفها عن أصحاب حظوة فقدوا حظوتهم لأنهم ظنوا أن منصبهم باقٍ كتحصيل حاصل فتجرأوا على التفوق في الإشراق." -Robert Greene
"ведения войны заключается в том, чтобы не полагаться на то, что противник не придет, а полагаться на то, с чем ты можешь его встретить. Сунь-цзы. «Трактат о военном искусстве» (IV в. до н. э.)" -Robert Greene
"the first people other than aristocrats to play openly with their image in Western society were artists and writers, and later on dandies and bohemians." -Robert Greene
"First you must come to understand your own character, examining as best you can the elements in your past that have gone into forming it, and the patterns, mostly negative, that you can see recurring in your life. It is impossible to get rid of this stamp that constitutes your character. It is too deep. But through awareness, you can learn to mitigate or stop certain negative patterns." -Robert Greene
"People who wear their hearts on their sleeves out in society are tiresome and embarrassing. Their sincerity notwithstanding, it is hard to take them seriously." -Robert Greene
"كان المطلوب من الإنسان أن لا يكون غادراً، فإن المطلوب قبل ذلك أن يكون من الذكاء بحيث لا يقع ضحية لغدر الآخرين، ومن القوة بحيث يعاقبهم." -Robert Greene
"the Mentor Dynamic replays something of the parental or father-figure dynamic. It is a cliché that you do not get to choose the family you are born into, but you are happily free to choose your mentors. In this case, the right choice can perhaps provide what your parents didn’t give you—support, confidence, direction, space to discover things on your own." -Robert Greene
"Recognize Your Aggressive Impulses" -Robert Greene
"overt" -Robert Greene
"The more you are seen and heard from, the more common you appear." -Robert Greene
"Elevate yourself above the battlefield." -Robert Greene
"Você é único, e sua singularidade tem um propósito. É preciso encarar todo retrocesso, fracasso ou dificuldade como provações ao longo do caminho, como sementes plantadas para a colheita futura." -Robert Greene
"You must alter your attitude toward your own generation. We like to imagine that we are autonomous and that our values and ideas come from within, not without, but this is in fact not the case. Your goal is to understand as deeply as possible how profoundly the spirit of your generation, and the times that you live in, have influenced how you perceive the world." -Robert Greene
"que te teman. La victoria sobre tus enemigos te brindará una popularidad más duradera." -Robert Greene
"From now on you need never await temporal attestation to your thought. You think the truth. You do not have the right to eliminate yourself. You do not belong to you. You belong to Universe. Your significance will remain forever obscure to you, but you may assume that you are fulfilling your role if you apply yourself to converting your experiences to the highest advantage of others." -Robert Greene
"He who has a why to live can bear with almost any how. —Friedrich Nietzsche" -Robert Greene
"Un paso crítico en la creación de una eficiente cadena de mando es reunir un equipo calificado que comparta tus metas y valores. Este equipo te dará muchas ventajas: personas entusiastas y motivadas que pueden pensar por sí mismas; una imagen como delegador@, como líder just@ y democrátic@, y un ahorro de tu valiosa energía, que puedes reorientar hacia el panorama general." -Robert Greene
"Operating with long-term goals will bring you tremendous clarity and resolve." -Robert Greene
"Alienar-se de suas inclinações só pode resultar em dor e decepção no longo prazo, e à sensação de que desperdiçou algo único. Essa dor se manifestará sob a forma de amargura e inveja, embora você não reconheça a verdadeira fonte de sua depressão." -Robert Greene
"The truth, however, is very different from this. Certainly there are individuals and larger forces out there that continually have an effect on us, and there is much we cannot control in the world. But generally what causes us to go astray in the first place, what leads to bad decisions and miscalculations, is our deep-rooted irrationality, the extent to which our minds are governed by emotion." -Robert Greene
"He increasingly spoke of himself in the third person, as if he had become an impersonal revolutionary force, and as such he was infallible. If he happened to mispronounce a word in a speech, every subsequent speaker from then on would have to pronounce it that way. 'If I’d said it right,' confessed one of his top lieutenants, 'Stalin would have felt I was correcting him.' And that could prove suicidal." -Robert Greene
"Somos criaturas que no soportan sentir que obedecen a una voluntad ajena. Si tus objetivos lo descubrieran, tarde o temprano se volverán contra ti." -Robert Greene
"Nuestra época puede enfatizar la igualdad, que luego confundimos con la necesidad de que todos seamos idénticos, pero su verdadero significado es la igualdad de oportunidades para expresar nuestras diferencias," -Robert Greene
"mismo" -Robert Greene
"In this world, where the game is played with loaded dice, a man must have a temper of iron, with armor proof to the blows of fate, and weapons to make his way against men. Life is one long battle; we have to fight at every step; and Voltaire very rightly says that if we succeed, it is at the point of the sword, and that we die with the weapon in our hand. —Arthur Schopenhauer" -Robert Greene
"Our natural tendency is to project onto other people our own beliefs and value systems, in ways in which we are not even aware. When it comes to studying another culture, it is only through the use of our empathic powers and by participating in their lives that we can begin to overcome these natural projections and arrive at the reality of their experience. To do so we must overcome the great fear of the Other and the unfamiliarity of their ways. We must enter their belief and value systems, their guiding myths, their way of seeing the world. Slowly, the distorted lens through which we first viewed them starts to clear up." -Robert Greene
"To resist this downward pull that groups inevitably exert on us, we must conduct a kind of experiment in human nature with a simple goal in mind—to develop the ability to detach ourselves from the group and create some mental space for true independent thinking." -Robert Greene
"What made this successful was his relentless desire to learn through whatever crossed his path, as well as his self-discipline." -Robert Greene
"We don’t say what we feel even when it would be appropriate, and we fail to set boundaries to people’s harmful behavior. We find it hard to ask for a raise or a promotion or the respect due to us. Losing our bold spirit, a positive form of aggression, is losing a deep part of our self, and it is inevitably painful." -Robert Greene
"وأحد الأسس الهامة والحساسة للسلطة، هو قدرتك على التحكم في عواطفك." -Robert Greene
"The Laws of Human Nature, 14: Resist the Downward Pull of the Group—The Law of Conformity" -Robert Greene
"They often appear charming and refreshingly confident, brimming with ideas and enthusiasm, and we fall under their spell. Only when it is too late do we discover that their confidence is irrational and their ideas ill-conceived. Among colleagues, they can be those who sabotage our work or careers out of secret envy, excited to bring us down. Or they could be colleagues or hires who reveal, to our dismay, that they are completely out for themselves, using us as stepping-stones. What inevitably happens in these situations is that we are caught off guard, not expecting such behavior. Often these types will hit us with elaborate cover stories to justify their actions, or blame handy scapegoats. They know how to confuse us and draw us into a drama they control. We might protest or become angry, but in the end we feel rather helpless—the damage is done. Then another such type enters our life, and the same story repeats itself." -Robert Greene
"The source of (50 Cents') power is his utter fearlessness." -Robert Greene
"12--Lose Battles, But Win The War: Grand StrategyGrand strategy is the art of looking beyond the present battle and calculating ahead. Focus on your ultimate goal and plot to reach it." -Robert Greene
"Do not fight them. Instead think of them the way you think of children, or pets, not important enough to affect your mental balance" -Robert Greene
"Events in life mean nothing if you do not reflect on them in a deep way, and ideas from books are pointless if they have no application to life as you live it." -Robert Greene
"It is your own bad strategies, not the unfair opponent, that are to blame for your failures. You are responsible for the good and bad in your life." -Robert Greene
"Understand: your mind is weaker than your emotions. But you become aware of this weakness only in moments of adversity--precisely the time whenyou need strength. What best equips you to cope with tthe heat of battle is neither more knowledge nor more intellect. What makes your mind stronger, and more able to control your emotions, is internal discipline and toughness.No one can teach you this skill; you cannot learn it by reading about it. Like any discipline, it can come only through practice, experience, even a little suffering. The first step in building up presence of mind is to see the need for ii -- to want it badly enough to be willing to work for it." -Robert Greene
"But the greatest battle of all is with yourself—your weaknesses, your emotions, your lack of resolution in seeing things through to the end. You must declare unceasing war on yourself." -Robert Greene
"Everything in life can be taken away from you and generally will be at some point. Your wealth vanishes, the latest gadgetry suddenly becomes passé, your allies desert you. But if your mind is armed with the art of war, there is no power that can take that away. In the middle of a crisis, your mind will find its way to the right solution. Having superior strategies at your fingertips will give your maneuvers irresistible force. As Sun-tzu says, 'Being unconquerable lies with yourself." -Robert Greene
"When you have success, be extra wary. When you are angry, take no action. When you are fearful, know you are going to exaggerate the dangers you face." -Robert Greene
"Think of the mind as a river: the faster it flows, the better it keeps up with the present and responds to change. The faster it flows, also the more it refreshes itself and the greater its energy. Obsessional thoughts, past experiences (whether traumas orsuccesses), and preconceived notions are like boulders or mud in this river, settling and hardeningthere and damming it up. The river stops moving; stagnation sets in. You must wage constant war on this tendency in the mind." -Robert Greene
"Your mind is the starting point of all war and all strategy. A mind that is easily overwhelmed by emotion, that is rooted in the past instead of the present, that cannot see the world with clarity and urgency, will create strategies that will always miss the mark." -Robert Greene
"Our successes and failures in life can be traced to how well or how badly we deal with the inevitable conflicts that confront us in society." -Robert Greene
"Understand: your mind is weaker than your emotions. But you become aware of this weakness only in moments of adversity--precisely the time whenyou need strength. What best equips you to cope with tthe heat of battle is neither more knowledge nor moreintellect. What makes your mind stronger, and moreable to control your emotions, is internal disciplineand toughness.No one can teach you this skill; you cannot learn it by reading about it. Like any discipline, it can come only through practice, experience, even a little suffering." -Robert Greene
"It was only by escaping into the desert that Moses and the Jews were able to solidify their identity and reemerge as a social and political force.Jesus spent his forty days in the wilderness, and Mohammed, too, fled Mecca at a time of great peril for a period of retreat. He and just a handful of his most devoted supporters used this period to deepen their bonds, to understand who they were and what they stood for, to let time work its good. Then this little band of believers reemerged to conquer Mecca and the Arabian Peninsula and later, after Mohammed's death, to defeat the Byzantines and the Persian empire, spreading Islam over vast territories. Around the world every mythology has a hero who retreats, even to Hades itself in the case of Odysseus, to find himself." -Robert Greene
"Understanding the world too well, you see too many options and become as indecisive as Hamlet.No matter how far we progress, we remain part animal, and it is the animal in us that fires our strategies, gives them life, animates us to fight. Without the desire to fight, without a capacity for the violence war churns up, we cannot deal with danger.The prudent Odysseus types are comfortable with both sides of their nature. They plan ahead as best they can, see far and wide, but when it comes time to move ahead, they move. Knowing how to control your emotions means not repressing them completely but using them to their best effect." -Robert Greene
"For what the leaders are, that, as a rule, will the men below them be. —Xenophon (430?–355? B.C.)" -Robert Greene
"Your days are numbered. Will you pass them half awake and halfhearted or will you live with a sense of urgency?" -Robert Greene
"The key to staying unintimidated is to convince yourself that the person you're facing is a mere mortal, no different from you-- which is in fact the truth. See the person, not the myth. Imagine him or her as a child, as someone riddled with insecurities. Cutting the other person down to size will help your keep your mental balance." -Robert Greene
"Forgetting our objectives. —During the journey we commonly forget its goal. Almost every profession is chosen and commenced as a means to an end but continued as an end in itself. Forgetting our objectives is the most frequent of all acts of stupidity. FRIEDRICH NIETZSCHE, 1844" -Robert Greene
"Life has more meaning in the face of Death." -Robert Greene
"As Xenophon said, your obstacles are not rivers or mountains or other people; your obstacle is yourself. If you feel lost and confused, if you lose your sense of direction, if you cannot tell the difference between friend and foe, you have only yourself to blame." -Robert Greene
"Understand: the greatest generals, the most creative strategists, stand out not because they have more knowledge but because they are able, when necessary, to drop their preconceived notions and focus intensely on the present moment. That is how creativity is sparked and opportunities are seized. Knowledge, experience, and theory have limitations: no amount of thinking in advance can prepare you for the chaos of life, for the infinite possibilities of the moment. The great philosopher of war Carl von Clausewitz called this 'friction': the difference between our plans and what actually happens. Since friction is inevitable, our minds have to be capable of keeping up with change and adapting to the unexpected. The better we can adapt our thoughts to changing circumstances, the more realistic our responses to them will be. The more we lose ourselves in predigested theories and past experiences, the more inappropriate and delusional our response." -Robert Greene
"Being attacked is a sign that you are important enough to be a target. You should relish the attention and the chance to prove yourself." -Robert Greene
"[Strategy] is more than a science: it is the application of knowledge to practical life, the development of thought capable of modifying the original guiding idea in the light of ever-changing situations; it is the art of acting under the pressure of the most difficult conditions. HELMUTH VON MOLTKE, 1800–1891" -Robert Greene
"Understand: your mind is weaker than your emotions. But you become aware of this weakness only in moments of adversity,precisely the time whenyou need strength. What best equips you to cope with tthe heat of battle is neither more knowledge nor more intellect. What makes your mind stronger, and more able to control your emotions, is internal discipline and toughness.No one can teach you this skill; you cannot learn it by reading about it. Like any discipline, it can come only through practice, experience, even a little suffering. The first step in building up presence of mind is to see the need for it, to want it badly enough to be willing to work for it." -Robert Greene
"Every day you face battles—that is the reality for all creatures in their struggle to survive. But the greatest battle of all is with yourself—your weaknesses, your emotions, your lack of resolution in seeing things through to the end." -Robert Greene
"The truth is that everything starts from the top. What determines your failure or success is your style of leadership and the chain of command that you design." -Robert Greene
"What limits individuals as well as nations is the inability to confront reality, to see things for what they are. As we grow older, we become more rooted in the past. Habit takes over. Something that has worked for us before becomes a doctrine, a shell to protect us from reality. Repetition replaces creativity." -Robert Greene
"KEYS TO WARFARE The world is full of people looking for a secret formula for success and power. They do not want to think on their own; they just want a recipe to follow. They are attracted to the idea of strategy for that very reason. In their minds strategy is a series of steps to be followed toward a goal. They want these steps spelled out for them by an expert or a guru. Believing in the power of imitation, they want to know exactly what some great person has done before. Their maneuvers in life are as mechanical as their thinking. To separate yourself from such a crowd, you need to get rid of a common misconception: the essence of strategy is not to carry out a brilliant plan that proceeds in steps; it is to put yourself in situations where you have more options than the enemy does. Instead of grasping at Option A as the single right answer, true strategy is positioning yourself to be able to do A, B, or C depending on the circumstances. That is strategic depth of thinking, as opposed to formulaic thinking." -Robert Greene
"As Xenophon said, your obstacles are not rivers or mountains or other people; your obstacle is yourself. If you feel lost and confused, if you lose your sense of direction, if you cannot tell the difference between friend and foe, you have only" -Robert Greene
"Strategic warriors operate much differently. They think ahead toward their long-term goals, decide which fights to avoid and which are inevitable, know how to control and channel their emotions. When forced to fight, they do so with indirection and subtle maneuver, making their manipulations hard to trace. In this way they can maintain the peaceful exterior so cherished in these political times." -Robert Greene
"A sense of urgency comes from a powerful connection to the present" -Robert Greene
"Instead of wasting time negotiating with every difficult person, work on spreading a spirit of camaraderie and efficiency that becomes self-policing. Streamline the organization, cutting out waste—in staff, in the irrelevant reports on your desk, in pointless meetings." -Robert Greene
"What you want in warfare is room to maneuver. Tight corners spell death. Having enemies gives you options. You can play them off against each other, make one a friend as a way of attacking the other, on and on. Without enemies you will not know how or where to maneuver, and you will lose a sense of your limits, of how far you can go. Early on, Julius Caesar identified Pompey as his enemy. Measuring his actions and calculating carefully, he did only those things that left him in a solid position in relation to Pompey. When war finally broke out between the two men, Caesar was at his best. But once he defeated Pompey and had no more such rivals, he lost all sense of proportion—in fact, he fancied himself a god. His defeat of Pompey was his own undoing. Your enemies force on you a sense of realism and humility." -Robert Greene
"Your wealth vanishes, the latest gadgetry suddenly becomes passé, your allies desert you. But if your mind is armed with the art of war, there is no power that can take that away." -Robert Greene
"According to Machiavelli, human beings naturally tend to think in terms of patterns. They like to see events conforming to their expectations by fitting into a pattern or scheme, for schemes, whatever their actual content, comfort us by suggesting that the chaos of life is predictable." -Robert Greene
"The child psychologist Jean Piaget saw conflict as a critical part of mental development. Through battles with peers and then parents, children learn to adapt to the world and develop strategies for dealing with problems. Those children who seek to avoid conflict at all cost, or those who have overprotective parents, end up handicapped socially and mentally. The same is true of adults: it is through your battles with others that you learn what works, what doesn’t, and how to protect yourself. Instead of shrinking from the idea of having enemies, then, embrace it. Conflict is therapeutic." -Robert Greene
"Most of us in life are tacticians, not strategists. We become so enmeshed in the conflicts we face that we can think only of how to get what we want in the battle we are currently facing. To think strategically is difficult and unnatural. You may imagine you are being strategic, but in all likelihood you are merely being tactical. To have the power that only strategy can bring, you must be able to elevate yourself above the battlefield, to focus on your long-term objectives, to craft an entire campaign, to get out of the reactive mode that so many battles in life lock you into." -Robert Greene
"An up-front enemy is rare now and is actually a blessing. People hardly ever attack you openly anymore, showing their intentions, their desire to destroy you; instead they are political and indirect. Although the world is more competitive than ever, outward aggression is discouraged, so people have learned to go underground, to attack unpredictably and craftily. Many use friendship as a way to mask aggressive desires: they come close to you to do more harm. (A friend knows best how to hurt you.) Or, without actually being friends, they offer assistance and alliance: they may seem supportive, but in the end they’re advancing their own interests at your expense. Then there are those who master moral warfare, playing the victim, making you feel guilty for something unspecified you’ve done. The battlefield is full of these warriors, slippery, evasive, and clever." -Robert Greene
"The only way to break out of a negative dynamic is to confront it. Repressing your anger, avoiding the person threatening you, always looking to conciliate—these common strategies spell ruin. Avoidance of conflict becomes a habit, and you lose the taste for battle. Feeling guilty is pointless; it is not your fault you have enemies." -Robert Greene
"Authority: One who is good at combating the enemy fools it with inscrutable moves, confuses it with false intelligence, makes it relax by concealing one’s strength, . . . deafens its ears by jumbling one’s orders and signals, blinds its eyes by converting one’s banners and insignias, . . . confounds its battle plan by providing distorted facts. —Tou Bi Fu Tan, A Scholar’s Dilettante Remarks on War (16th century A.D.)" -Robert Greene
"This mental habit offers excellent ground for deception, using a strategy that Machiavelli calls 'acclimatization'—deliberately creating some pattern to make your enemies believe that your next action will follow true to form. Having lulled them into complacency, you now have room to work against their expectations, break the pattern, and take them by surprise." -Robert Greene
"I never read any treatises on strategy. . . . When we fight, we do not take any books with us.MAO TSE-TUNG, 1893–1976" -Robert Greene
"Always try to lower the other side’s sense of urgency. Make your enemies think they have all the time in the world; when you suddenly appear at their border, they are in a slumbering state, and you will easily overrun them. While you are sharpening your fighting spirit, always do what you can to blunt theirs. PART" -Robert Greene
"When you have success, be extra wary. When you are angry, take no action. When you are fearful, know you are going to exaggerate the dangers you face. War demands the utmost in realism, seeing things as they are. The more you can limit or compensate for your emotional responses, the closer you will come to this ideal." -Robert Greene
"REFRESHING THE MIND When you and your opponent are engaged in combat which is dragging on with no end in sight, it is crucial that you should come up with a completely different technique. By refreshing your mind and techniques as you continue to fight your opponent, you will find an appropriate rhythm-timing with which to defeat him. Whenever you and your opponent become stagnant, you must immediately employ a different method of dealing with him in order to overcome him." -Robert Greene
"At every step of the way, to give her the contrast she needed, Thatcher marked out an opponent: the socialists, the wets, the Argentineans. These enemies helped to define her image as determined, powerful, self-sacrificing. Thatcher was not seduced by popularity, which is ephemeral and superficial. Pundits might obsess over popularity numbers, but in the mind of the voter—which, for a politician, is the field of battle—a dominating presence has more pull than does likability. Let some of the public hate you; you cannot please everyone. Your enemies, those you stand sharply against, will help you to forge a support base that will not desert you. Do not crowd into the center, where everyone else is; there is no room to fight in a crowd. Polarize people, drive some of them away, and create a space for battle. Everything in life conspires to push you into the center, and not just politically. The center is the realm of compromise. Getting along with other people is an important skill to have, but it comes with a danger: by always seeking the path of least resistance, the path of conciliation, you forget who you are, and you sink into the center with everyone else. Instead see yourself as a fighter, an outsider surrounded by enemies. Constant battle will keep you strong and alert. It will help to define what you believe in, both for yourself and for others. Do not worry about antagonizing people; without antagonism there is no battle, and without battle, there is no chance of victory. Do not be lured by the need to be liked: better to be respected, even feared. Victory over your enemies will bring you a more lasting popularity." -Robert Greene
"Because you think you have options, you never involve yourself deeply enough in one thing to do it thoroughly, and you never quite get what you want. Sometimes you need to run your ships aground, burn them, and leave yourself just one option: succeed or go down. Make the burning of your ships as real as possible—get rid of your safety net. Sometimes you have to become a little desperate to get anywhere." -Robert Greene
"As a warrior in life, you must turn this dynamic around: make the thought of death something not to escape but to embrace. Your days are numbered. Will you pass them half awake and halfhearted or will you live with a sense of urgency?" -Robert Greene
"If you are trying to mislead your enemies, it is often better to concoct something ambiguous and hard to read, as opposed to an outright deception—that deception can be uncovered and enemies can turn their discovery to their advantage, especially if you think they are still fooled and act under that belief." -Robert Greene
"Nature has made up her mind that what cannot defend itself shall not be defended.RALPH WALDO EMERSON, 1803–1882" -Robert Greene
"[Strategy] is more than a science: it is the application of knowledge to practical life, the development of thought capable of modifying the original guiding idea in the light of ever-changing situations; it is the art of acting under the pressure of the most difficult conditions." -Robert Greene
"Madness is the exception in individuals but the rule in groups.—Friedrich Nietzsche (1844–1900)" -Robert Greene
"What people say about themselves does not matter; people will say anything. Look at what they have done; deeds do not lie. You must also apply this logic to yourself. In looking back at a defeat, you must identify the things you could have done differently." -Robert Greene
"If you feel lost and confused, if you lose your sense of direction, if you cannot tell the difference between friend and foe, you have only yourself to blame." -Robert Greene
"Spiritualize your warfare. Every day you face battles—that is the reality for all creatures in their struggle to survive. But the greatest battle of all is with yourself—your weaknesses, your emotions, your lack of resolution in seeing things through to the end. You must declare unceasing war on yourself. As a warrior in life, you welcome combat and conflict as ways to prove yourself, to better your skills, to gain courage, confidence, and experience. Instead of repressing your doubts and fears, you must face them down, do battle with them. You want more chal-xx lenges, and you invite more war. You are forging the warrior’s spirit, and only constant practice will lead you there." -Robert Greene
"We live in a world in which speed is prized above almost all else, and acting faster than the other side has itself become the primary goal. But most often people are merely in a hurry, acting and reacting frantically to events, all of which makes them prone to error and wasting time in the long run. In order to separate yourself from the pack, to harness a speed that has devastating force, you must be organized and strategic. First, you prepare yourself before any action, scanning your enemy for weaknesses. Then you find a way to get your opponents to underestimate you, to lower their guard. When you strike unexpectedly, they will freeze up. When you hit again, it is from the side and out of nowhere. It is the unanticipated blow that makes the biggest impact." -Robert Greene
"Acting with speed and decisiveness will garner you respect, awe, and irresistible momentum. War is such that the supreme consideration is speed. This is to take advantage of what is beyond the reach of the enemy, to go by way of routes where he least expects you, and to attack where he has made no preparations.SUN-TZU, FOURTH CENTURY B.C." -Robert Greene
"Ignore the conventional wisdom about what you should or should not be doing. It may make sense for some, but that does not mean it bears any relation to your own goals and destiny. You need to be patient enough to plot several steps ahead—to wage a campaign instead of fighting battles. The path to your goal may be indirect, your actions may be strange to other people, but so much the better: the less they understand you, the easier they are to deceive, manipulate, and seduce. Following this path, you will gain the calm, Olympian perspective that will separate you from other mortals, whether dreamers who get nothing done or prosaic, practical people who accomplish only small things." -Robert Greene
"It is a disease to be obsessed by the thought of winning. It is also a disease to be obsessed by the thought of employing your swordsmanship. So it is to be obsessed by the thought of using everything you have learned, and to be obsessed by the thought of attacking. It is also a disease to be obsessed and stuck with the thought of ridding yourself of any of these diseases. A disease here is an obsessed mind that dwells on one thing. Because all these diseases are in your mind, you must get rid of them to put your mind in order.TAKUAN, JAPAN, 1573–1645" -Robert Greene
"Being more careful is not what we need; that is just a screen for our fear of conflict and of making a mistake. What we need is double the resolve—an intensification of confidence. That will serve as a counterbalance." -Robert Greene
"Acting with speed and decisiveness will garner you respect, awe, and irresistible momentum. War is such that the supreme consideration is speed. This is to take advantage of what is beyond the reach of the enemy, to go by way of routes where he least expects you, and to attack where he has made no preparations.SUN-TZU, FOURTH CENTURY B.C." -Robert Greene
"We live in a world in which speed is prized above almost all else, and acting faster than the other side has itself become the primary goal. But most often people are merely in a hurry, acting and reacting frantically to events, all of which makes them prone to error and wasting time in the long run. In order to separate yourself from the pack, to harness a speed that has devastating force, you must be organized and strategic. First, you prepare yourself before any action, scanning your enemy for weaknesses. Then you find a way to get your opponents to underestimate you, to lower their guard. When you strike unexpectedly, they will freeze up. When you hit again, it is from the side and out of nowhere. It is the unanticipated blow that makes the biggest impact." -Robert Greene
"When we are tired, it is often because we are bored. When no real challenge faces us, a mental and physical lethargy sets in. 'Sometimes death only comes from a lack of energy,' Napoleon once said, and lack of energy comes from a lack of challenges, comes when we have taken on less than we are capable of." -Robert Greene
"Finally, pay attention to the orders themselves—their form as well as their substance. Vague orders are worthless. As they pass from person to person, they are hopelessly altered, and your staff comes to see them as symbolizing uncertainty and indecision. It is critical that you yourself be clear about what you want before issuing your orders. On the other hand, if your commands are too specific and too narrow, you will encourage people to behave like automatons and stop thinking for themselves—which they must do when the situation requires it. Erring in neither direction is an art." -Robert Greene
"Aggression is deceptive: it inherently hides weakness. Aggressors cannot control their emotions." -Robert Greene
"This means that you yourself are largely the agent of anything bad that happens to you. With more prudence, wiser policies, and greater vision, you could have avoided the danger. So when something goes wrong, look deep into yourself—not in an emotional way, to blame yourself or indulge your feelings of guilt, but to make sure that you start your next campaign with a firmer step and greater vision." -Robert Greene
"Without enemies you will not know how or where to maneuver, and you will lose a sense of your limits, of how far you can go." -Robert Greene
"The more we lose ourselves in predigested theories and past experiences, the more inappropriate and delusional our response." -Robert Greene
"Do not waste time on things you cannot change or influence. Just keep moving." -Robert Greene
"Leaders have always found it useful to have an enemy at their gates in times of trouble, distracting the public from their difficulties. In using your enemies to rally your troops, polarize them as far as possible: they will fight the more fiercely when they feel a little hatred. So exaggerate the differences between you and the enemy—draw the lines clearly." -Robert Greene
"Your first task as a strategist is to widen your concept of the enemy, to include in that group those who are working against you, thwarting you, even in subtle ways." -Robert Greene
"Follow David’s example: say or do something that can be read in more than one way, that may be superficially polite but that could also indicate a slight coolness on your part or be seen as a subtle insult. A friend may wonder but will let it pass. The secret enemy, though, will react with anger." -Robert Greene
"But it’s not what you have that brings you victory, it’s how you use it. When you have less, you are naturally more inventive." -Robert Greene
"You are your own worst enemy. You waste precious time dreaming of the future instead of engaging in the present. Since nothing seems urgent to you, you are only half involved in what you do. The only way to change is through action and outside pressure." -Robert Greene
"This is the game you must play: Do whatever you can to preserve unity of command. Keep the strings to be pulled in your hands; the over-arching strategic vision must come from you and you alone. At the same time, hide your tracks. Work behind the scenes; make the group feel involved in your decisions. Seek their advice, incorporating their good ideas, politely deflecting their bad ones. If necessary, make minor, cosmetic strategy changes to assuage the insecure political animals in the group, but ultimately trust your own vision. Remember the dangers of group decision making. The first rule of effective leadership is never to relinquish your unity of command." -Robert Greene
"What you know must translate into action, and action must translate into knowledge. In this way strategy becomes a lifelong challenge and the source of constant pleasure in surmounting difficulties and solving problems." -Robert Greene
"Instead of internalizing a bad situation, externalize it and face your enemy. It is the only way out." -Robert Greene
"In life you must be a warrior, and war requires realism. While others may find beauty in endless dreams, warriors find it in reality, in awareness of limits, in making the most of what they have." -Robert Greene
"Being attacked is a sign that you are important enough to be a target." -Robert Greene
"Your enemies, those you stand sharply against, will help you to forge a support base that will not desert you. Do not crowd into the center, where everyone else is; there is no room to fight in a crowd. Polarize people, drive some of them away, and create a space for battle." -Robert Greene
"Just as Cortés’s men saw their ships as insurance, you may see this fallback as a blessing—but in fact it is a curse. It divides you. Because you think you have options, you never involve yourself deeply enough in one thing to do it thoroughly, and you never quite get what you want. Sometimes you need to run your ships aground, burn them, and leave yourself just one option: succeed or go down. Make the burning of your ships as real as possible—get rid of your safety net. Sometimes you have to become a little desperate to get anywhere." -Robert Greene
"Warriors focus on what they do have, the strengths that they do possess and that they must use creatively. Knowing when to slow down, to renew, to retrench, they outlast their opponents. They play for the long term." -Robert Greene
"Worship Athena, not Ares." -Robert Greene
"The world is ruled by necessity: People change their behavior only if they have to. They will feel urgency only if their lives depend on it." -Robert Greene
"What you want in warfare is room to maneuver. Tight corners spell death. Having enemies gives you options. You can play them off against each other, make one a friend as a way of attacking the other, on and on." -Robert Greene
"The leader who tries to change the group’s spirit directly—yelling, demanding, disciplining—actually plays into the teenage dynamic and reinforces the desire to rebel." -Robert Greene
"The lesson is simple: do not confuse a chummy, clublike atmosphere with team spirit and cohesion. Coddling your soldiers and acting as if everyone were equal will ruin discipline and promote the creation of factions. Victory will forge stronger bonds than superficial friendliness, and victory comes from discipline, training, and ruthlessly high standards." -Robert Greene
"The world is full of fools—people who cannot wait to get results, who change with the wind, who can’t see past their noses. You encounter them everywhere: the indecisive boss, the rash colleague, the hysterical subordinate. When working alongside fools, do not fight them. Instead think of them the way you think of children, or pets, not important enough to affect your mental balance. Detach yourself emotionally. And while you’re inwardly laughing at their foolishness, indulge them in one of their more harmless ideas. The ability to stay cheerful in the face of fools is an important skill." -Robert Greene
"Divided leadership is dangerous because people in groups often think and act in ways that are illogical and ineffective—call it Groupthink. People in groups are political: they say and do things that they think will help their image within the group. They aim to please others, to promote themselves, rather than to see things dispassionately. Where an individual can be bold and creative, a group is often afraid of risk. The need to find a compromise among all the different egos kills creativity. The group has a mind of its own, and that mind is cautious, slow to decide, unimaginative, and sometimes downright irrational." -Robert Greene
"Lemos livros que nos divertem, mas têm pouca relevância para nossas vidas diárias. Temos ideais sublimes que não colocamos em prática. Temos experiências tão ricas que não analisamos o suficiente, que não nos inspiram ideias, cujas lições ignoramos. E estratégia requer um contato constante entre os dois reinos. É conhecimento prático em sua forma mais elevada. Os acontecimentos na vida nada significam como você vive. Na estratégia, tudo na vida é um jogo que você está jogando. Este jogo é excitante, mas também exige profunda e séria atenção. As apostas são altas. O que você sabe precisa ser traduzido em ação, e ação precisa ser traduzida em conhecimento. Deste modo, a estratégia passa a ser um desafio para a vida inteira e fonte de constante prazer na superação de dificuldades e solução de problemas." -Robert Greene
"and" -Robert Greene
"Actually, your past successes are your biggest obstacle: every battle, every war, is different, and you cannot assume that what worked before will work today. You must cut yourself loose from the past and open your eyes to the present. Your tendency to fight the last war may lead to your final war." -Robert Greene
"REVERSAL There can never be any value in fighting uneconomically, but it is always a wise course to make your opponent waste as much of his resources as possible. This can be done through hit-and-run tactics, forcing him to expend energy chasing after you. Lure him into thinking that one big offensive will ruin you; then bog that offensive down in a protracted war in which he loses valuable time and resources. A frustrated opponent exhausting energy on punches he cannot land will soon make mistakes and open himself up to a vicious counterattack." -Robert Greene
"Por esto, cuando he conseguido una victoria, no vuelvo a emplear la misma táctica otra vez, sino que, respondiendo a las circunstancias, varío mis métodos hasta el infinito. —Sun-tzu (siglo IV a.C.)." -Robert Greene
"Not only because of the fact that . . . oppression usually increases if it is suffered calmly and without protest, but also because opposition gives us inner satisfaction, distraction, relief . . . Our opposition makes us feel that we are not completely victims of the circumstances.GEORG SIMMEL, 1858–1918" -Robert Greene
"Beware of people who hide behind a façade of vague abstractions and impartiality: no one is impartial. A sharply worded question, an opinion designed to offend, will make them react and take sides. Man exists only in so far as he is opposed.GEORG HEGEL, 1770–1831" -Robert Greene
"Musashi’s opponents depended on brilliant technique, flashy swords, and unorthodox weapons. That is the same as fighting the last war: instead of responding to the moment, they relied on training, technology, and what had worked before. Musashi, who had grasped the essence of strategy when he was still very young, turned their rigidity into their downfall. His first thought was of the gambit that would take this particular opponent most by surprise. Then he would anchor himself in the moment: having set his opponent off balance with something unexpected, he would watch carefully, then respond with another action, usually improvised, that would turn mere disequilibrium into defeat and death." -Robert Greene
"My policy is to have no policy.ABRAHAM LINCOLN, 1809–1865" -Robert Greene
"What makes us go astray in the first place is that we are unattuned to the present moment, insensitive to the circumstances. We are listening to our own thoughts, reacting to things that happened in the past, applying theories and ideas that we digested long ago but that have nothing to do with our predicament in the present. More books, theories, and thinking only make the problem worse." -Robert Greene
"Knowledge, experience, and theory have limitations: no amount of thinking in advance can prepare you for the chaos of life, for the infinite possibilities of the moment." -Robert Greene
"Pense nos idiotas da mesma forma que em crianças ou animais domésticos - não são suficientemente importantes para afectar o sue equilíbrio mental." -Robert Greene
"A veces puedes lograr más no haciendo nada." -Robert Greene
"Un paso crítico en la creación de una eficiente cadena de mando es reunir un equipo calificado que comparta tus metas y valores. Este equipo te dará muchas ventajas: personas entusiastas y motivadas que pueden pensar por sí mismas; una imagen como delegador@, como líder just@ y democrátic@, y un ahorro de tu valiosa energía, que puedes reorientar hacia el panorama general." -Robert Greene
"Mack había sido capturado una vez y forzado a pasar tres años en Francia, donde había estudiado el estilo bélico de Napoleón." -Robert Greene
"Pero hacía otra vez lo inesperado, encauzando un ejército por una estrecha abertura en la Selva Negra y lanzándolo directamente contra Mack." -Robert Greene
"Nunca dividía a su ejército en unidades menores, ya que eso infringiría el principio militar de mantener concentradas las fuerzas; además, dispersarlas dificultaría su monitoreo, y se perdería el control de la batalla." -Robert Greene
"During the era of the Warring States in ancient China, the state of Qi found itself threatened by the powerful armies of the state of Wei. The Qi general consulted the famous strategist Sun Pin (a descendant of Suntzu himself), who told him that the Wei general looked down on the armies of Qi, believing that their soldiers were cowards. That, said Sun Pin, was the key to victory. He proposed a plan: Enter Wei territory with a large army and make thousands of campfires. The next day make half that number of campfires, and the day after that, half that number again. Putting his trust in Sun Pin, the Qi general did as he was told. The Wei general, of course, was carefully monitoring the invasion, and he noted the dwindling campfires. Given his predisposition to see the Qi soldiers as cowards, what could this mean but that they were defecting? He would advance with his cavalry and crush this weak army; his infantry would follow, and they would march into Qi itself. Sun Pin, hearing of the approaching Wei cavalry and calculating how fast they were moving, retreated and stationed the Qi army in a narrow pass in the mountains. He had a large tree cut down and stripped of its bark, then wrote on the bare log, 'The general of Wei will die at this tree.' He set the log in the path of the pursuing Wei army, then hid archers on both sides of the pass. In the middle of the night, the Wei general, at the head of his cavalry, reached the place where the log blocked the road. Something was written on it; he ordered a torch lit to read it. The torchlight was the signal and the lure: the Qi archers rained arrows on the trapped Wei horsemen. The Wei general, realizing he had been tricked, killed himself. Sun Pin based his baiting of the Wei general on his knowledge of the man’s personality, which was arrogant and violent. By turning these qualities to his advantage, encouraging his enemy’s greed and aggression, Sun Pin could control the man’s mind. You, too, should look for the emotion that your enemies are least able to manage, then bring it to the surface. With a little work on your part, they will lay themselves open to your counterattack." -Robert Greene
"Siempre hay momentos en que el lugar del comandante no es la retaguardia con su estado mayor sino la vanguardia con sus tropas." -Robert Greene
"your weaknesses, your emotions, your lack of resolution in seeing things through to the end. You must declare unceasing war on yourself. As a warrior in life, you welcome combat and conflict as ways to prove yourself, to better your skills, to gain courage, confidence, and experience. Instead of repressing your doubts and fears, you must face them down, do battle with them." -Robert Greene
"Y la mejor manera de encontrar las debilidades del jefe no es por medio de espías, sino de un fuerte abrazo. Detras de una fachada amigable, aun servil, puedes observar a tus enemigos, lograr que se sinceren y delaten. Llega a lo más hondo; piensa como ellos. Una vez que descubras su vulnerabilidad —" -Robert Greene
"In the beginning, strategy indeed belonged to a select few—a general, his staff, the king, a handful of courtiers. Soldiers were not taught strategy, for that would not have helped them on the battlefield. Besides, it was unwise to arm one’s soldiers with the kind of practical knowledge that could help them to organize a mutiny or rebellion." -Robert Greene
"The strategies that succeed in war, whether conventional or unconventional, are based on timeless psychology, and great military failures have much to teach us about human stupidity and the limits of force in any arena." -Robert Greene
"If strategy is the art of getting results, of putting ideas into practice, then it should be spread far and wide, particularly among those who have been traditionally kept ignorant of it, including women." -Robert Greene
"Look at things as they are, not as your emotions color them." -Robert Greene
"Judge people by their actions." -Robert Greene
"The following are six fundamental ideals you should aim for in transforming yourself into a strategic warrior in daily life." -Robert Greene
"People who accuse you of being unfair, for example, who try to make you feel guilty, who talk about justice and morality, are trying to gain an advantage on the chessboard." -Robert Greene
"Depend on your own arms." -Robert Greene
"Elevate yourself above the battlefield." -Robert Greene
"Spiritualize your warfare." -Robert Greene
"Lo que la gente diga de sí misma no importa; dirá lo que sea. Ve lo que ha hecho; los actos no mienten." -Robert Greene
"Espiritualiza tu guerra. Cada día enfrentas batallas: ésta es la realidad de todas las criaturas en su lucha por sobrevivir. Pero tu mayor batalla es contigo mism@: tus debilidades, tus emociones, tu falta de resolución para llevar las cosas hasta su término. Debes declarar una guerra incesante contra ti. Como guerrer@ en la vida, acepta el combate y el conflicto como medios para ponerte a prueba, mejorar tus habilidades y aumentar tu valor, experiencia y seguridad en ti mism@. En lugar de reprimir tus dudas y temores, debes eliminarlos, trabar batalla con ellos. Tú" -Robert Greene
"The Great German general Erwin Rommel once made a distinction between a gamble and a risk. Both cases involve an action with only a chance of success, a chance that is heightened by acting with boldness. The difference is that with a risk, if you lose, you can recover: your reputation will suffer no long-term damage, your resources will not be depleted, and you can return to your original position with acceptable losses. With a gamble, on the other hand, defeat can lead to a slew of problems that are likely to spiral out of control. With a gamble there tend to be too many variables to complicate the picture down the road if things go on. The problem goes further: if you encounter difficulties in a gamble, it becomes harder to pull out—you realize that the stakes are too high; you cannot afford to lose. So you try harder to rescue the situation, often making it worse and sinking deeper in to the hole that you cannot get out of. People are drawn into gambles by their emotions: they see only glittering prospects if they win and ignore the ominous consequences if the lose. Taking risks is essential; gambling is foolhardy. It can be years before you recover from a gamble, if you recover at all." -Robert Greene
"Wage guerrilla war on your mind, allowing no static lines of defense, no exposed citadels—make everything fluid and mobile." -Robert Greene
"What we need are not impossible and inhuman ideals of peace and cooperation to live up to, and the confusion that brings us, but rather practical knowledge on how to deal with conflict and the daily battles we face. And this knowledge is not about how to be more forceful in getting what we want or defending ourselves but rather how to be more rational and strategic when it comes to conflict, channeling our aggressive impulses instead of denying or repressing them. If there is an ideal to aim for, it should be that of the strategic warrior, the man or woman who manages difficult situations and people through deft and intelligent maneuver." -Robert Greene
"Avoidance of conflict becomes a habit, and you lose the taste for battle. Feeling guilty is pointless; it is not your fault you have enemies." -Robert Greene
"The same is true of adults: it is through your battles with others that you learn what works, what doesn’t, and how to protect yourself. Instead of shrinking from the idea of having enemies, then, embrace it. Conflict is therapeutic." -Robert Greene
"Remember: there are always people out there who are more aggressive, more devious, more ruthless than you are, and it is inevitable that some of them will cross your path." -Robert Greene
"[Strategy] is more than a science: it is the application of knowledge to practical life, the development of thought capable of modifying the original guiding idea in the light of ever-changing situations; it is the art of acting under the pressure of the most difficult conditions.HELMUTH VON MOLTKE, 1800–1891" -Robert Greene
"That is precisely the wrong approach. What makes us go astray in the first place is that we are unattuned to the present moment, insensitive to the circumstances. We are listening to our own thoughts, reacting to things that happened in the past, applying theories and ideas that we digested long ago but that have nothing to do with our predicament in the present. More books, theories, and thinking only make the problem worse." -Robert Greene
"It can be valuable to analyze what went wrong in the past, but it is far more important to develop the capacity to think in the moment. In that way you will make far fewer mistakes to analyze." -Robert Greene
"In the heat of battle, the mind tends to lose its balance. Too many things confront you at the same time—unexpected setbacks, doubts and criticisms from your own allies. There’s a danger of responding emotionally, with fear, depression, or frustration. It is vital to keep your presence of mind, maintaining your mental powers whatever the circumstances. You must actively resist the emotional pull of the moment—staying decisive, confident, and aggressive no matter what hits you. Make the mind tougher by exposing it to adversity." -Robert Greene
"Our greatest weakness is losing heart, doubting ourselves, becoming unnecessarily cautious. Being more careful is not what we need; that is just a screen for our fear of conflict and of making a mistake." -Robert Greene
"Your mind will never go blank when it is that well prepared." -Robert Greene
"It is easy to be overwhelmed by everything that faces you in battle, where so many people are asking or telling you what to do." -Robert Greene
"It is easy to be overwhelmed by everything that faces you in battle, where so many people are asking or telling you what to do. So many vital matters press in on you that you can lose sight of your goals and plans; suddenly you can’t see the forest for the trees." -Robert Greene
"Understand: your mind is weaker than your emotions. But you become aware of this weakness only in moments of adversity—precisely the time when you need strength." -Robert Greene
"What makes your mind stronger, and more able to control your emotions, is internal discipline and toughness." -Robert Greene
"What makes your mind stronger, and more able to control your emotions, is internal discipline and toughness. No one can teach you this skill; you cannot learn it by reading about it. Like any discipline, it can come only through practice, experience, even a little suffering." -Robert Greene
"Being a leader of even the smallest group gives you something to live up to: people are watching you, judging you, depending on you. To lose your composure would make it hard for you to live with yourself." -Robert Greene
"There is nothing worse than feeling dependent on other people. Dependency makes you vulnerable to all kinds of emotions—betrayal, disappointment, frustration—that play havoc with your mental balance." -Robert Greene
"It is important to remember, though, that being self-reliant does not mean burdening yourself with petty details. You must be able to distinguish between small matters that are best left to others and larger issues that require your attention and care." -Robert Greene
"The world is full of fools—people who cannot wait to get results, who change with the wind, who can’t see past their noses. You encounter them everywhere: the indecisive boss, the rash colleague, the hysterical subordinate. When working alongside fools, do not fight them. Instead think of them the way you think of children, or pets, not important enough to affect your mental balance." -Robert Greene
"The world is full of fools—people who cannot wait to get results, who change with the wind, who can’t see past their noses. You encounter them everywhere: the indecisive boss, the rash colleague, the hysterical subordinate. When working alongside fools, do not fight them. Instead think of them the way you think of children, or pets, not important enough to affect your mental balance. Detach yourself emotionally. And while you’re inwardly laughing at their foolishness, indulge them in one of their more harmless ideas. The ability to stay cheerful in the face of fools is an important skill." -Robert Greene
"People who involve themselves completely in the immediate problem are intimidating; because they are focusing so intensely, they seem more powerful than they are." -Robert Greene
"The Way of the Samurai is in desperateness. Ten men or more cannot kill such a man. Common sense will not accomplish great things. Simply become insane and desperate." -Robert Greene
"Often we try too many things at one time, thinking that one of them will bring us success—but in these situations our minds are diffused, our efforts halfhearted. It is better to take on one daunting challenge, even one that others think foolish. Our future is at stake; we cannot afford to lose. So we don’t." -Robert Greene
"When we are tired, it is often because we are bored. When no real challenge faces us, a mental and physical lethargy sets in. 'Sometimes death only comes from a lack of energy,' Napoleon once said, and lack of energy comes from a lack of challenges, comes when we have taken on less than we are capable of. Take a risk and your body and mind will respond with a rush of energy. Make risk a constant practice; never let yourself settle down." -Robert Greene
"You may have brilliant ideas, you may be able to invent unbeatable strategies—but if the group that you lead, and that you depend on to execute your plans, is unresponsive and uncreative, and if its members always put their personal agendas first, your ideas will mean nothing. You must learn the lesson of war: it is the structure of the army—the chain of command and the relationship of the parts to the whole—that will give your strategies force." -Robert Greene
"This military model is extremely adaptable to any group. It has one simple requirement: before formulating a strategy or taking action, understand the structure of your group. You can always change it and redesign it to fit your purposes." -Robert Greene
"If your orders are vague and halfhearted, by the time they reach the field they will be meaningless. Let people work unsupervised and they will revert to their natural selfishness: they will see in your orders what they want to see, and their behavior will promote their own interests." -Robert Greene
"If your orders are vague and halfhearted, by the time they reach the field they will be meaningless. Let people work unsupervised and they will revert to their natural selfishness: they will see in your orders what they want to see, and their behavior will promote their own interests. Unless you adapt your leadership style to the weaknesses of the people in your group, you will almost certainly end up with a break in the chain of command." -Robert Greene
"Espiritualize sua guerra. Você enfrenta batalha todos os dias - essa é a realidade para todas as criaturas em sua luta pela sobrevivência. Mas a maior batalha de todas é com você mesmo - suas fraquezas, suas emoções, sua falta de decisão em compreender as coisas até o final. Você deve declarar guerra incessante contra você mesmo. Como um guerreiro na vida, você deve aceitar o combate e o conflito como modos de provar quem você é, de melhorar suas habilidades, de ganhar coragem, confiança e experiência. Em vez de reprimir suas dúvidas e temores, você deve derrubá-los de frente e lutar contra eles. Você precisa de mais desafios, e você convida a mais guerra. Você está forjando o espírito do guerreiro, e somente a prática constante o levará até lá." -Robert Greene
"Lemos livros que nos divertem, mas têm pouca relevância para nossas vidas diárias. Temos ideais sublimes que não colocamos em prática. Temos experiências tão ricas que não analisamos o suficiente, que não nos inspiram ideias, cujas lições ignoramos. E estratégia requer um contato constante entre os dois reinos. É conhecimento prático em sua forma mais elevada. Os acontecimentos na vida nada significam como você vive. Na estratégia, tudo na vida é um jogo que você está jogando. Este jogo é excitante, mas também exige profunda e séria atenção. As apostas são altas. O que você sabe precisa ser traduzido em ação, e ação precisa ser traduzida em conhecimento. Deste modo, a estratégia passa a ser um desafio para a vida inteira e fonte de constante prazer na superação de dificuldades e solução de problemas." -Robert Greene
"Divided leadership is dangerous because people in groups often think and act in ways that are illogical and ineffective—call it Groupthink. People in groups are political: they say and do things that they think will help their image within the group. They aim to please others, to promote themselves, rather than to see things dispassionately. Where an individual can be bold and creative, a group is often afraid of risk. The need to find a compromise among all the different egos kills creativity. The group has a mind of its own, and that mind is cautious, slow to decide, unimaginative, and sometimes downright irrational." -Robert Greene
"Control is an elusive phenomenon. Often, the harder you tug at people, the less control you have over them. Leadership is more than just barking out orders; it takes subtlety." -Robert Greene
"Be careful in assembling this team that you are not seduced by expertise and intelligence. Character, the ability to work under you and with the rest of the team, and the capacity to accept responsibility and think independently are equally key." -Robert Greene
"When people seem to share your ideas exactly, be wary: they are probably mirroring them to charm you." -Robert Greene
"The lesson is simple: do not confuse a chummy, clublike atmosphere with team spirit and cohesion. Coddling your soldiers and acting as if everyone were equal will ruin discipline and promote the creation of factions. Victory will forge stronger bonds than superficial friendliness, and victory comes from discipline, training, and ruthlessly high standards." -Robert Greene
"The higher the rank, the greater the effect of the example. The men tend to feel no kind of contact with a commander who, they know, is sitting somewhere in headquarters. What they want is what might be termed a physical contact with him." -Robert Greene
"People cannot stay motivated if their material needs go unmet. If they feel exploited in any way, their natural selfishness will come to the surface and they will begin to peel off from the group." -Robert Greene
"Right from the beginning, your troops must see you leading from the front, sharing their dangers and sacrifices—taking the cause as seriously as they do. Instead of trying to push them from behind, make them run to keep up with you." -Robert Greene
"Ask more of them. Expect them to work like adults. Quietly alter the spirit with which things are done. Emphasize efficiency: anybody can be efficient (it isn’t a question of talent), efficiency breeds success, and success raises morale. Once the spirit and personality of the group start to shift, everything else will fall into place." -Robert Greene
"Understand: once people know what pleases you and what angers you, they turn into trained poodles, working to charm you with apparent good behavior." -Robert Greene
"We all have limitations—our energies and skills will take us only so far. Danger comes from trying to surpass our limits." -Robert Greene
"Understand: the more you want the prize, the more you must compensate by examining what getting it will take." -Robert Greene
"But it’s not what you have that brings you victory, it’s how you use it." -Robert Greene
"Perfect economy, then, does not mean hoarding your resources. That is not economy but stinginess—deadly in war. Perfect economy means finding a golden mean, a level at which your blows count but do not wear you out." -Robert Greene
"When the job you are doing is neither above nor below your talents but at your level, you are neither exhausted nor bored and depressed. You suddenly have new energy and creativity." -Robert Greene
"When we are under attack, the temptation is to get emotional, to tell the aggressors to stop, to make threats as to what we’ll do if they keep going. That puts us in a weak position: we’ve revealed both our fears and our plans, and words rarely deter aggressors. Sending them a message through a third party or revealing it indirectly through action is much more effective. That way you signal that you are already maneuvering against them." -Robert Greene
"Everything in life conspires to push you into the center, and not just politically. The center is the realm of compromise. Getting along with other people is an important skill to have, but it comes with a danger: by always seeking the path of least resistance, the path of conciliation, you forget who you are, and you sink into the center with everyone else. Instead see yourself as a fighter, an outsider surrounded by enemies. Constant battle will keep you strong and alert." -Robert Greene
"grasping at Option A as the single right answer, true strategy is positioning yourself to be able to do A, B, or C depending" -Robert Greene
"En un mundo dominado por las apariencias, en el que el valor está determinado por la presencia pública, el terrorismo puede ofrecer un espectacular atajo a la publicidad, y por eso los terroristas ajustan su violencia a los medios de información, particularmente a la televisión." -Robert Greene
"If you want to make people with low self esteem feel better about themselves, praise has a superficial effect. Instead prod them into accomplishing something tangible, giving them a real experience. That will translate into a much deeper feeling of confidence." -Robert Greene
"The essence of strategy is not to carry out a brilliant plan that proceeds in steps. It is to put yourself in situations where you have more options than your enemy does...True strategy is being able to do strategy A, B, or C, depending on the circumstances." -Robert Greene
"Reading and thinking about [new ideas] won't work. You must put them into effect." -Robert Greene
"The formation of proper alliances was in some ways a more important art than that of warfare itself, and the statesmen adept at this art were more powerful than military leaders." -Robert Greene
"War is the continuation of politics by other means. —Carl von Clausewitz (1780–1831)" -Robert Greene
"The Prussian military theoretician Carl von Clausewitz famously argued that war is the continuation of politics by other means." -Robert Greene
"Ve las cosas como son, no como tus emociones las colorean. En la estrategia debes ver tus reacciones emocionales a los hechos como una especie de enfermedad por curar." -Robert Greene
"El único remedio es estar consciente de que el brote de la emoción es inevitable, notarlo cuando aparezca y compensarlo." -Robert Greene
"Depende de tus propias armas. En la búsqueda del éxito en la vida, la gente tiende a depender de cosas que parecen simples y fáciles o que han funcionado antes. Esto podría significar acumular riqueza, recursos, un gran número de aliados o la más reciente tecnología y la ventaja que conlleva. Pero esto es ser materialista y mecánico. La verdadera estrategia es psicológica; cuestión de inteligencia, no de fuerza material." -Robert Greene
"La vida es batalla y contienda, y tú enfrentarás constantemente situaciones desagradables, relaciones destructivas y compromisos riesgosos. La forma en que encares estas dificultades determinará tu destino." -Robert Greene
"Piensa que siempre estás a punto de iniciar una batalla." -Robert Greene
"que te teman. La victoria sobre tus enemigos te brindará una popularidad más duradera." -Robert Greene
"clarify your life...the direction in which your skills and talents seem to push you...Ignore the conventional wisdom...It may make sense for some, but that does not mean it bears any relation to your own goals...your actions may be strange to other people, but so much the better" -Robert Greene
"we reason and plan to achieve a goal, but in the heat of action, we become emotional and lose perspective. We use cleverness and strategy to grab for what we want, but we do not stop to think about whether what we want is necessary or what the consequences of getting it will be" -Robert Greene
"We are taught early on in life that those who are outwardly combative and aggressive pay a social price: unpopularity and isolation. These values of harmony and cooperation are perpetuated in subtle and not-so-subtle ways—through books on how to be successful in life; through the pleasant, peaceful exteriors that those who have gotten ahead in the world present to the public; through notions of correctness that saturate the public space." -Robert Greene
"We are taught early on in life that those who are outwardly combative and aggressive pay a social price: unpopularity and isolation. These values of harmony and cooperation are perpetuated in subtle and not-so-subtle ways—through books on how to be successful in life; through the pleasant, peaceful exteriors that those who have gotten ahead in the world present to the public; through notions of correctness that saturate the public space. The problem for us is that we are trained and prepared for peace, and we are not at all prepared for what confronts us in the real world—war." -Robert Greene
"Reserva tu prudencia para las horas de la preparación; pero una vez empezado el combate, vacía tu mente de dudas. Ignora a quienes se acobardan ante cualquier revés y piden el repliegue." -Robert Greene
"Most people are open books. They say what they feel, blurt out their opinions at every opportunity, and constantly reveal their plans and intentions. They do this for several reasons. First, it is easy and natural to always want to talk about one’s feelings and plans for the future. It takes effort to control your tongue and monitor what you reveal. Second, many believe that by being honest and open they are winning people’s hearts and showing their good nature. They are greatly deluded. Honesty is actually a blunt instrument, which bloodies more than it cuts. Your honesty is likely to offend people; it is much more prudent to tailor your words, telling people what they want to hear rather than the coarse and ugly truth of what you feel or think. More important, by being unabashedly open you make yourself so predictable and familiar that it is almost impossible to respect or fear you, and power will not accrue to a person who cannot inspire such emotions. If you yearn for power, quickly lay honesty aside, and train yourself in the art of concealing your intentions. Master the art and you will always have the upper hand." -Robert Greene
"فالثرثار لا يعتبره المستمعون ماكراً أو متلاعباً، بل شخصاً بسيطاً مسكيناً لا حول له. وهذا عكس سياسة الصمت التي يستخدمها الأقوياء ذوو السلطة." -Robert Greene
"Understand this: The world wants to assign you a role in life. And once you accept that role you are doomed." -Robert Greene
"and" -Robert Greene
"REVERSALThe reversal to mastery is to deny its existence or its importance, and therefore the need to strive for it in any way. But such a reversal can only lead to feelings of powerlessness and disappointment. This reversal leads to enslavement to what we shall call the false self.Your false self is the accumulation of all the voices you have internalized from other people—parents and friends who want you to conform to their ideas of what you should be like and what you should do, as well as societal pressures to adhere to certain values that can easily seduce you. It also includes the voice of your own ego, which constantly tries to protect you from unflattering truths. This self talks to you in clear words, and when it comes to mastery, it says things like, 'Mastery is for the geniuses, the exceptionally talented, the freaks of nature. I was simply not born that way.' Or it says, 'Mastery is ugly and immoral. It is for those who are ambitious and egotistical. Better to accept my lot in life and to work to help other people instead of enriching myself.' Or it might say, 'Success is all luck. Those we call Masters are only people who were at the right place at the right time. I could easily be in their place if I had a lucky break.' Or it might also say, 'To work for so long at something that requires so much pain and effort, why bother? Better to enjoy my short life and do what I can to get by.'As you must know by now, these voices do not speak the truth. Mastery is not a question of genetics or luck, but of following your natural inclinations and the deep desire that stirs you from within. Everyone has such inclinations. This desire within you is not motivated by egotism or sheer ambition for power, both of which are emotions that get in the way of mastery. It is instead a deep expression of something natural, something that marked you at birth as unique. In following your inclinations and moving toward mastery, you make a great contribution to society, enriching it with discoveries and insights, and making the most of the diversity in nature and among human society. It is in fact the height of selfishness to merely consume what others create and to retreat into a shell of limited goals and immediate pleasures. Alienating yourself from your inclinations can only lead to pain and disappointment in the long run, and a sense that you have wasted something unique. This pain will beexpressed in bitterness and envy, and you will not recognize the true source of your depression." -Robert Greene
"Our life inevitably involves obstacles, frustrations, pain, and separations. How we come to handle such moments in our early years plays a large role in the development of our overall attitude toward life. For many people, such difficult moments inspire them to restrict what they see and experience. They go through life trying to avoid any kind of adversity, even if this means never really challenging themselves or getting much success in their careers. Instead of learning from negative experiences, they want to repress them. Your goal is to move in the opposite direction, to embrace all obstacles as learning experiences, as means to getting stronger. In this way you embrace life itself." -Robert Greene
"Nosso nível de desejo, paciência, persistência e confiança acaba contribuindo muito mais para o sucesso que a capacidade de raciocínio. A motivação e a energia podem superar quase tudo. A monotonia e a inconstância desconectam a mente e nos tornam cada vez mais passivos." -Robert Greene
"(Sentir temor y peligro puede agudizar más tarde la seducción; pero si provocas esas sensaciones en las primeras etapas, lo más probable es que ahuyentes a tu víctima.) Con frecuencia, la mejor manera de parecer inofensivo y concederte margen de maniobra es establecer una amistad, acercándote cada vez más pero manteniendo siempre la distancia adecuada con amistades del sexo opuesto." -Robert Greene
"The principle is simple and must be engraved deeply in your mind: the goal of an apprenticeship is not money, a good position, a title, or a diploma, but rather the transformation of your mind and character—the first transformation on the way to mastery. You enter a career as an outsider. You are naïve and full of misconceptions about this new world. Your head is full of dreams and fantasies about the future. Your knowledge of the world is subjective, based on emotions, insecurities, and limited experience. Slowly, you will ground yourself in reality, in the objective world represented by the knowledge and skills that make people successful in it. You will learn how to work with others and handle criticism. In the process you will transform yourself from someone who is impatient and scattered into someone who is disciplined and focused, with a mind that can handle complexity. In the end, you will master yourself and all of your weaknesses." -Robert Greene
"For the future, the motto is, 'No days unalert.' Nothing should catch you by surprise because you are constantly imagining problems before they arise. Instead of spending your time dreaming of your plan’s happy ending, you must work on calculating every possible permutation and pitfall that might emerge in it. The further you see, the more steps ahead you plan, the more powerful you become." -Robert Greene
"Absence diminishes minor passions and inflames great ones, as the wind douses a candle and fans a fire. —François de La Rochefoucauld" -Robert Greene
"Resist Simple Explanations It is not an enemy who taunts me—then I could bear it; it is not an adversary who deals insolently with me—then I could hide from him. But it is you, my equal, my companion, my familiar friend. . . . My companion stretched out his hand against his friends, he violated his covenant. His speech was smoother than butter, yet war was in his heart; his words were softer than oil, yet they were drawn swords. —Psalms, 55:12–15, 20–21" -Robert Greene
"Emotions tend to narrow the mind, making us focus on one or two ideas that satisfy our immediate desire for power or attention, ideas that usually backfire. Now, with a calm spirit, you can entertain a wide range of options and solutions. You will deliberate longer before acting and reassess your strategies." -Robert Greene
"You will think in terms of opposites—when people overtly display some trait, such as confidence or hypermasculinity, they are most often concealing the contrary reality." -Robert Greene
"Do not overstep your bounds. Do what you are assigned to do, to the best of your abilities, and never do more. To think that by doing more you are doing better is a common blunder. It is never good to seem to be trying too hard—it is as if you were covering up some deficiency. Fulfilling a task that has not been asked of you just makes people suspicious. If you are a crown-keeper, be a crown-keeper. Save your excess energy for when you are not in the court." -Robert Greene
"Create Mental Space from the Group" -Robert Greene
"... like a turtle, the Spartans sacrificed mobility for safety. They managed to preserve stability for three hundred years, but at what cost? They had no culture beyond warfare, ... While their neighbors took to the sea, learning to adapt to a world of constant motion, the Spartans entombed themselves in their own system.... Only stasis allowed them to survive. But nothing in the world can remain stable forever, and the shell or system you evolve for your protection will someday prove your undoing." -Robert Greene
"Playing with appearances and mastering arts of deception are among the aesthetic pleasures of life. They are also key components in the acquisition of power." -Robert Greene
"Esta é uma lição que as estrelas no céu nos ensinam – elas podem ser aparentadas com o sol, e tão brilhantes quanto ele, mas nunca aparecem em sua companhia. (Baltasar Gracián, 1601-1658)" -Robert Greene
"the use of honesty is indeed a power strategy, intended to convince people of one’s noble, good-hearted, selfless character. It is a form of persuasion, even a subtle form of coercion." -Robert Greene
"So my approach to troubleshooting is I go into the plant. The first thing I do before we change anything on the equipment is make the people operate it correctly. Stop screaming, stop poking all the animals with electric prods, bring up smaller groups. And then I see how it works. Then I go, 'Okay. He’s balking at seeing a lady standing there writing down cattle IDs. All right, get a big piece of cardboard, I'll cover her up. He’ll balking at the restrainer. I'll turn a light on the restrainer entrance. 'So I just do a lot of little things, a lot of modifications with lights and cardboard to see if I can get it to work. And then after I’ve done that I go, 'Well this is hopeless. You're going to have to build a new system, or we can fix it with these changes.' There’s an awful lot of systems where it’s certainly not a system I would want to copy, but I can make it work. The plant can live with it." -Robert Greene
"صورة من صور الصمت في سلوكياتهم؛ مثل الاختفاء في مواجهة الشدائد والملمَّات، والتقاعس عن إنجاز جزء مهم من العمل، والتحول فجأة إلى وضعية القتال عند ظهور من يتحداهم؛ أو على النقيض من ذلك: الارتقاء المفاجئ إلى مستوى الحدث عندما يقلَّدون المسؤولية؛ فإذا استقر هذا في ذهنك، فقم بشيء من البحث في ماضيهم، وانظر في تصرفات أخرى لاحظتها تأتي في هذا الإطار، عن طريق استذكارك لها، وانتبه مليًّا إلى ما يفعلونه في الوقت الحاضر، ولا تنظر إلى تصرفاتهم كأنها وقائع معزولة عن غيرها، بل انظر إليها بأنها نمط قسري يسيرون فيه، فإذا فاتك ذلك النمط، فتلك غلطتك." -Robert Greene
"Your task is to let go of the rigidity that takes hold of you as you overidentify with the expected gender role. Power lies in exploring that middle range between the masculine and the feminine, in playing against people’s expectations." -Robert Greene
"La solución del encantador es satisfacer los aspectos tentadores y adictivos de la sexualidad —la atención concentrada, el mayor amor propio, el cortejo placentero, la comprensión (real o ilusoria)—, pero sustraer el sexo mismo. Esto no quiere decir que el encantador reprima o desaliente la sexualidad; bajo la superficie de toda tentativa de encantamiento acecha un señuelo sexual, una posibilidad." -Robert Greene
"The ancient Greeks had an appropriate metaphor for this: the rider and the horse. The horse is our emotional nature continually impelling us to move. This horse has tremendous energy and power, but without a rider it cannot be guided; it is wild, subject to predators, and continually heading into trouble. The rider is our thinking self. Through training and practice, it holds the reins and guides the horse, transforming this powerful animal energy into something productive. The one without the other is useless. Without the rider, no directed movement or purpose. Without the horse, no energy, no power. In most people the horse dominates, and the rider is weak. In some people the rider is too strong, holds the reins too tightly, and is afraid to occasionally let the animal go into a gallop. The horse and rider must work together." -Robert Greene
"Asimismo, el modo en que la gente maneja el poder y la responsabilidad te dirá mucho sobre ella. Como dijo Lincoln: 'Si quieres probar el carácter de un hombre, dale poder'." -Robert Greene
"The more you say, the more likely you are to say something foolish." -Robert Greene
"وكان المصاب يكاد يرغب في التدمير وعدم الاستقرار. وبإمكانك أن تمضي حياة بكاملها في دراسة التاريخ المرضي للشخصية المعدية، ولكن لا تُضِعْ وقتك - بل اكتفِ بتعلم الدرس. فعندما تشكّ في أنك أمام شخصية معدية من هذا النوع، لا تحاول أن تجادل، ولا تحاول أن تساعد، ولا تصل هذه الشخصية بأصدقائك، والاّ فسوف تتورَّط. اهرب من أمام المعدي، والاّ فتحمَّل العواقب." -Robert Greene
"This is the essence of the surrender tactic: Inwardly you stay firm, but outwardly you bend. Deprived of a reason to get angry, your opponents will often be bewildered instead. And they are unlikely to react with more violence, which would demand a reaction from you. Instead you are allowed the time and space to plot the countermoves that will bring them down. In the battle of the intelligent against the brutal and the aggressive, the surrender tactic is the supreme weapon. It does require self-control: Those who genuinely surrender give up their freedom, and may be crushed by the humiliation of their defeat. You have to remember that you only appear to surrender, like the animal that plays dead to save its hide." -Robert Greene
"Pero haz que la gente se pregunte por qué eres tímido o triste bajo tu desenvuelto ingenio intelectual, y conseguirás su atención. Dale una ambigüedad que le haga ver lo que quiere, atrapa su imaginación con algunos atisbos voyeuristas de tu alma oscura." -Robert Greene
"It seems abusive or damaging to people’s self-esteem to offer them stern, realistic criticism, to set them tasks that will make them aware of how far they have to go. In fact, this indulgence and fear of hurting people’s feelings is far more abusive in the long run. It makes it hard for people to gauge where they are or to develop self-discipline. It makes them unsuited for the rigors of the journey to mastery. It weakens people’s will." -Robert Greene
"At a certain point, we move from student to practitioner. We try out our own ideas, gaining valuable feedback in the process. We use our expanding knowledge in ways that are increasingly creative. Instead of just learning how others do things, we bring our own style and individuality into play." -Robert Greene
"hire a former enemy and he will be more loyal than a friend, because he has more to prove. In fact, you have more to fear from friends than from enemies. If you have no enemies, find a way to make them." -Robert Greene
"It is important to understand that rationality is not some means of transcending emotion. Pericles himself valued bold and adventurous action. He loved the spirit of Athena and the inspiration she brought. He wanted Athenians to feel love for their city and empathy for their fellow citizens. What he envisioned was a state of balance—a clear understanding of why we feel the way we do, conscious of our impulses so that we can think without being secretly compelled by our emotions. Pericles wanted the energy that comes from impulses and emotions to serve our thinking self. That was his vision of rationality, and our ideal." -Robert Greene
"For Chinese courtiers, the problem of how to give the emperor advice was an important issue. Over the years, thousands of them had died trying to warn or counsel their master. To be made safely, their criticisms had to be indirect—yet if they were too indirect they would not be heeded. The chronicles were their solution: Identify no one person as the source of criticism, make the advice as impersonal as possible, but let the emperor know the gravity of the situation." -Robert Greene
"It is much more powerful to get others to agree with you through your actions, without saying a word. Demonstrate, do not explicate." -Robert Greene
"La vida diaria es dura, y casi todos buscamos incesantemente huir de ella en sueños y fantasías." -Robert Greene
"And there are three qualities to people’s self-opinion that are nearly universal: 'I am autonomous, acting of my own free will'; 'I am intelligent in my own way'; and 'I am basically good and decent." -Robert Greene
"We are taught early on in life that those who are outwardly combative and aggressive pay a social price: unpopularity and isolation. These values of harmony and cooperation are perpetuated in subtle and not-so-subtle ways—through books on how to be successful in life; through the pleasant, peaceful exteriors that those who have gotten ahead in the world present to the public; through notions of correctness that saturate the public space. The problem for us is that we are trained and prepared for peace, and we are not at all prepared for what confronts us in the real world—war." -Robert Greene
"Your enemies, on the other hand, are an untapped gold mine that you must learn to exploit." -Robert Greene
"إن الوسيلتين الوحيدتين لتمكين المرء من نيل غرضه من الناس هما القوة والمكر." -Robert Greene
"The other face of Janus looks constantly to the past—though not to remember past hurts or bear grudges. That would only curb your power. Half of the game is learning how to forget those events in the past that eat away at you and cloud your reason." -Robert Greene
"People have a desperate need to believe in something and they will find it anywhere." -Robert Greene
"Always stick to what makes you weird, odd, strange, different. That’s your source of power." -Robert Greene
"But because we have increasingly gained control of our environment and the physical pressures have loosened dramatically, the dangers have become much more subtle—they come in the form of people (not leopards) and their tricky psychology, and the delicate political and social games we have to play. And because of these less obvious dangers, our greatest problem is that our minds tend to become less sensitive to the environment; we turn inward, absorbed in our dreams and fantasies. We become naive." -Robert Greene
"Hide your intentions not by closing up (with the risk of appearing secretive, and making people suspicious) but by talking endlessly about your desires and goals just not your real ones. You will kill three birds with one stone: you appear friendly, open, and trusting; you conceal your intentions; and you send your rivals on time-consuming wild-goose chases." -Robert Greene
"Know What You’re Drawn to and Immerse Yourself in It" -Robert Greene
"El único remedio es estar consciente de que el brote de la emoción es inevitable, notarlo cuando aparezca y compensarlo." -Robert Greene
"Honesty is actually a blunt instrument, which bloodies more than it cuts." -Robert Greene
"Be extra wary of sudden success and attention—they are not built on anything that lasts and they have an addictive pull. And the fall is always painful." -Robert Greene
"The time that leads to mastery is dependent on the intensity of our focus.' ― Robert Greene, MasteryI love it because it is true :)" -Robert Greene
"Place your iron hand inside a velvet glove." -Robert Greene
"When our earliest human ancestors left the trees and moved to the open grasslands of the savanna, they adopted an upright stance. Possessing already this powerful visual system, they could see far into the distance (giraffes and elephants might stand taller, but their eyes are on the sides, giving them instead panoramic vision). This allowed them to spot dangerous predators far away on the horizon and detect their movements even in twilight. Given a few seconds or minutes, they could plot a safe retreat. At the same time, if they focused on what was nearest at hand, they could identify all kinds of important details in their environment—footprints and signs of passing predators, or the colors and shapes of rocks that they could pick up and perhaps use as tools." -Robert Greene
"it was all for our good. Remember, all we need to ensure success is notoriety." -Robert Greene
"Add to the needed diversity of culture by creating something that reflects your uniqueness. Embrace what makes you different. Not following this course is the real reason you feel depressed at times. Moments of depression are a call to listen again to your inner authority. In a world full of endless distractions, you must focus and prioritize. Certain activities are a waste of time." -Robert Greene
"So we need to be subtle—congenial yet cunning, democratic yet devious." -Robert Greene
"If people truly learned from their experience, we would find few mistakes in the world and career paths that ascend ever upward." -Robert Greene
"Judge people by their actions." -Robert Greene
"Your mind will never go blank when it is that well prepared." -Robert Greene
"Everyone holds his fortune in his own hands, like a sculptor the raw material he will fashion into a figure. But it’s the same with that type of artistic activity as with all others: We are merely born with the capability to do it. The skill to mold the material into what we want must be learned and attentively cultivated." -Robert Greene
"Nunca critiques abiertamente a la gente; esto la hará sentirse insegura, y se resistirá al cambio. Siembra ideas, insinúa sugerencias." -Robert Greene
"people were losing their humanity and capable of all kinds of cruelties. They did not seem to care very deeply about one another and felt rather superior to any kind of outsider. If they could only see what she had seen—how our time is so short, how everyone must suffer and die—it would alter their way of life; it would make them grow up; it would melt all their coldness." -Robert Greene
"The Relentless Rebel: At first glance such people can seem quite exciting. They hate authority and love the underdog. Almost all of us are secretly attracted to such an attitude; it appeals to the adolescent within us, the desire to snub our nose at the teacher. They don’t recognize rules or precedents. Following conventions is for those who are weak and stodgy. These types will often have a biting sense of humor, which they might turn on you, but that is part of their authenticity, their need to deflate everyone, or so you think. But if you happen to associate with this type more closely, you will see that it is something they cannot control; it is a compulsion to feel superior, not some higher moral quality." -Robert Greene
"If you are young and just starting out in your career, you will want to explore a relatively wide field related to your inclinations—for instance, if your affinity is words and writing, try all the different types of writing until you hit upon the right fit. If you are older and have more experience, you will want to take the skills you have already developed and find a way to adapt them more in the direction of your true calling. Steve Jobs, as one example, merged his two great fascinations: technology and design. Daily Law: Keep in mind that your calling could be combining several fields that fascinate you. Keep the process open ended; your experience will instruct you as to the way. The Laws of Human Nature, 13: Advance with a Sense of Purpose—The Law of Aimlessness" -Robert Greene
"Your false self is the accumulation of all the voices you have internalized from other people—parents and friends who want you to conform to their ideas of what you should be like and what you should do, as well as societal pressures to adhere to certain values that can easily seduce you. It also includes the voice of your own ego, which constantly tries to protect you from unflattering truths. This self talks to you in clear words, and when it comes to mastery, it says things like, 'Mastery is for the geniuses, the exceptionally talented, the freaks of nature. I was simply not born that way.' Or it says, 'Mastery is ugly and immoral. It is for those who are ambitious and egotistical. Better to accept my lot in life and to work to help other people instead of enriching myself.' Or it might say, 'Success is all luck. Those we call Masters are only people who were at the right place at the right time. I could easily be in their place if I had a lucky break.' Or it might also say, 'To work for so long at something that requires so much pain and effort, why bother? Better to enjoy my short life and do what I can to get by." -Robert Greene
"People trying to make a show of their authority are easily deceived by the surrender tactic." -Robert Greene
"Disorganized mothers send highly conflicting signals to their children, reflecting their own inner chaos and perhaps early emotional traumas. Nothing their children do is right, and such children can develop powerful emotional problems." -Robert Greene
"The same is true of adults: it is through your battles with others that you learn what works, what doesn’t, and how to protect yourself. Instead of shrinking from the idea of having enemies, then, embrace it. Conflict is therapeutic." -Robert Greene
"Lo que la gente diga de sí misma no importa; dirá lo que sea. Ve lo que ha hecho; los actos no mienten." -Robert Greene
"Keep in mind, however, that people are in a state of continual flux. You must not let your ideas about them harden into a set impression. You are continually observing them and bringing your readings of them up to date." -Robert Greene
"In a speech Abraham Lincoln delivered at the height of the Civil War, he referred to the Southerners as fellow human beings who were in error. An elderly lady chastised him for not calling them irreconcilable enemies who must be destroyed. 'Why, madam,' Lincoln replied, 'do I not destroy my enemies when I make them my friends?" -Robert Greene
"Once it became clear that the delay was a critical mistake, and that the army was seething with mutiny, Ts‘ao Ts’ao had two options: apology and excuses, or a scapegoat. Understanding the workings of power and the importance of appearances as he did, Ts‘ao Ts’ao did not hesitate for a moment: He shopped around for the most convenient head and had it served up immediately. Occasional mistakes are inevitable—the world is just too unpredictable. People of power, however, are undone not by the mistakes they make, but by the way they deal with them. Like surgeons, they must cut away the tumor with speed and finality. Excuses and apologies are much too blunt tools for this delicate operation; the powerful avoid them. By apologizing you open up all sorts of doubts about your competence, your intentions, any other mistakes you may not have confessed. Excuses satisfy no one and apologies make everyone uncomfortable. The mistake does not vanish with an apology; it deepens and festers. Better to cut it off instantly, distract attention from yourself, and focus attention on a convenient scapegoat before people have time to ponder your responsibility or your possible incompetence. I would rather betray the whole world than let the world betray me. General Ts‘ao Ts’ao, c. A.D. 155-220" -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: It is simple: depending on others is misery; depending on yourself is power." -Robert Greene
"The worst fate in the world for a man who yearns fame, glory, and, of course, power is to be ignored." -Robert Greene
"In general, you accept and embrace your character. Your desire is not to become someone else but to be more thoroughly yourself, realizing your true potential." -Robert Greene
"For the Chinese, the fate of the kingdom of Wu serves as an elemental lesson on what happens when you dissipate your forces on several fronts, losing sight of distant dangers for the sake of present gain. 'If you are not in danger,' says Sun-tzu, 'do not fight.' It is almost a physical law: What is bloated beyond its proportions inevitably collapses. The mind must not wander from goal to goal, or be distracted by success from its sense of purpose and proportion. What is concentrated, coherent, and connected to its past has power. What is dissipated, divided, and distended rots and falls to the ground. The bigger it bloats, the harder it falls." -Robert Greene
"La verdad suele verse, rara vez oírse'." -Robert Greene
"Sigue la ciega Fortuna / a la audacia ciega y loca, / y muchas veces los cuerdos / lo son haciendo las cosas / sin dar tiempo a la cordura / de examinarlas juiciosa." -Robert Greene
"If we can make it look like we are not really responsible for our fate, for what happens to us in life, then our apparent powerlessness is more palatable. For this reason we become attracted to certain narratives: it is genetics that determines much of what we do; we are just products of our times; the individual is just a myth; human behavior can be reduced to statistical trends." -Robert Greene
"En este mundo no harás nada que valga la pena si no empiezas por desarrollarte y transformarte a ti mismo. ESTRATEGIAS" -Robert Greene
"This is the essence of the Law: Learn to get others to do the work for you while you take the credit, and you appear to be of godlike strength and power. If you think it important to do all the work yourself, you will never get far, and you will suffer the fate of the Balboas and Teslas of the world. Find people with the skills and creativity you lack. Either hire them, while putting your own name on top of theirs, or find a way to take their work and make it your own. Their creativity thus becomes yours, and you seem a genius to the world." -Robert Greene
"But even a positive trait such as intelligence is worthless if the person also happens to be of weak or dubious character." -Robert Greene
"Lemos livros que nos divertem, mas têm pouca relevância para nossas vidas diárias. Temos ideais sublimes que não colocamos em prática. Temos experiências tão ricas que não analisamos o suficiente, que não nos inspiram ideias, cujas lições ignoramos. E estratégia requer um contato constante entre os dois reinos. É conhecimento prático em sua forma mais elevada. Os acontecimentos na vida nada significam como você vive. Na estratégia, tudo na vida é um jogo que você está jogando. Este jogo é excitante, mas também exige profunda e séria atenção. As apostas são altas. O que você sabe precisa ser traduzido em ação, e ação precisa ser traduzida em conhecimento. Deste modo, a estratégia passa a ser um desafio para a vida inteira e fonte de constante prazer na superação de dificuldades e solução de problemas." -Robert Greene
"La causa más común de los errores humanos —escribió más tarde el cardenal de Retz— es temer demasiado el peligro presente y no lo suficiente el peligro remoto." -Robert Greene
"The tragedy of Nixon was that he had immense political talent and intelligence; if only he had also possessed the ability to look within and measure the darker sides to his character. It is the tragedy that confronts us all to the extent that we remain in deep denial." -Robert Greene
"Displaying anger and emotion are signs of weakness; you cannot control yourself, so how can you control anything?" -Robert Greene
"When we are under attack, the temptation is to get emotional, to tell the aggressors to stop, to make threats as to what we’ll do if they keep going. That puts us in a weak position: we’ve revealed both our fears and our plans, and words rarely deter aggressors. Sending them a message through a third party or revealing it indirectly through action is much more effective. That way you signal that you are already maneuvering against them." -Robert Greene
"Freedom consists not in refusing to recognize anything above us, but in respecting something which is above us; for, by respecting it, we raise ourselves to it, and, by our very acknowledgement, prove that we bear within ourselves what is higher, and are worthy to be on a level with it. —Johann Wolfgang von Goethe" -Robert Greene
"First and foremost is the existence throughout history and in all cultures of people of high rationality, the types who have made progress possible. They serve as ideals for all of us to aim for." -Robert Greene
"The real purpose of the backward-glancing eye is to educate yourself constantly—you look at the past to learn from those who came before you." -Robert Greene
"Athena was the guiding spirit of Athens, the goddess of wisdom and practical intelligence. She represented all of the values Pericles wanted to promote. Singlehandedly Pericles had transformed the look and spirit of Athens, and it entered a golden age in all of the arts and sciences." -Robert Greene
"When you practice and develop any skill you transform yourself in the process. You reveal to yourself new capabilities that were previously latent, that are exposed as you progress. You develop emotionally. Your sense of pleasure becomes redefined. What offers immediate pleasure comes to seem like a distraction, an empty entertainment to help pass the time. Real pleasure comes from overcoming challenges, feeling confidence in your abilities, gaining fluency in skills, and experiencing the power this brings. You develop patience. Boredom no longer signals the need for distraction, but rather the need for new challenges to conquer." -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: Ask someone who recalls your childhood what they remember about your interests. Get reacquainted with those early passions. Mastery, I: Discover Your Calling—The Life’s Task" -Robert Greene
"In fact it is often wise to choose the most innocent victim possible as a sacrificial goat." -Robert Greene
"Pick up a bee from kindness, and learn the limitations of kindness." -Robert Greene
"Great courtiers throughout history have mastered the science of manipulating people." -Robert Greene
"Working on yourself like clay should be one of your greatest and most pleasurable life tasks. It makes you in essence an artist—an artist creating yourself." -Robert Greene
"Carácter es destino. —HERÁCLITO" -Robert Greene
"Do not be one of the many who mistakenly believe that the ultimate form of power is independence, Power involves a relationship between people; you will always need others as allies, pawns or even as weak masters who serve as your front. The completely independent man would live in a cabin in the woods--he would have the freedom to come and go as he pleased, but he would have no power. The best you can hope for is that others will grow so dependent on you that you enjoy a kind of reverse independence: Their need for you frees you." -Robert Greene
"Caesar set the ideal for all leaders and people of power. Like him, you must learn to enlarge your actions through dramatic techniques such as surprise," -Robert Greene
"Keep in mind that talking too much is a type of overpresence that grates and reveals weakness. Silence is a form of absence and withdrawal that draws attention; it spells self-control and power; when you do talk, it has a greater effect. In a similar fashion, if you commit a mistake, do not overexplain and overapologize. You make it clear you accept responsibility and are accountable for any failures, and then you move on. Your contrition should be relatively quiet; your subsequent actions will show you have learned the lesson. Avoid appearing defensive and whiny if attacked. You are above that." -Robert Greene
"You often do not know your friends as well as you imagine. Friends often agree on things in order to avoid an argument. They cover up their unpleasant qualities so as not offend each other. They laugh extra hard at each others jokes. Since honesty rarely strengthens friendship, you may never know how a friend truly feels. Friends will say they love your poetry, adore your music, envy your taste in clothes - maybe they mean, often they do not." -Robert Greene
"You must see your career or vocational path more as a journey with twists and turns rather than a straight line." -Robert Greene
"Learn to imagine more possibilities than you generally consider. Avoid fixating only on what is present. Ponder what is absent." -Robert Greene
"Related to this, when we look at people we often are really seeing only their reputation, the myth that surrounds them, the position they occupy, and not the individual." -Robert Greene
"But, as Machiavelli said, it is better to be feared than loved. Fear you can control; love, never. Depending on an emotion as subtle and changeable as love or friendship will only make you insecure. Better to have others depend on you out of fear of the consequences of losing you than out of love of your company." -Robert Greene
"Yes, trust them not, for there is an upstart crow, beautified with our feathers, that with his tiger's heart wrapped in a player's hide supposes he is as well able to bombast out a blank verse as the best of you, and being an absolute Johannes Factotum, is in his own conceit the only Shake-scene in a country." -Robert Greene
"An emphatic trait often conceals it's opposite" -Robert Greene
"If you want to seem natural, as if you are comfortable with yourself, you have to act the part; you have to train yourself to not feel nervous and to shape your appearance so that in your naturalness you don’t offend people or the group values. Those who sulk and refuse to perform end up marginalized, as the group unconsciously expels such types." -Robert Greene
"analyze them in terms of the 48 laws of power, and you extract from them a lesson and an oath: 'I shall never repeat such a mistake; I shall" -Robert Greene
"Knowledge is always progressing. Don’t let your ego fool you. You are always knowledge’s inferior" -Robert Greene
"La réputation est la pierre angulaire du pouvoir. À elle seule, elle peut vous permettre d’impressionner et de gagner ; cependant, lorsqu’elle est compromise, vous êtes vulnérable et l’on vous attaquera de toutes parts. Faites en sorte que votre réputation soit toujours impeccable. Soyez vigilant et déjouez les attaques avant qu’elles ne se produisent. En même temps, apprenez à détruire vos ennemis par leur réputation : ouvrez-y des brèches, puis taisez-vous et laissez faire la meute." -Robert Greene
"What is offered for free is dangerous--it usually involves either a trick or a hidden obligation. What has worth is worth paying for. By paying your own way you stay clear of gratitude, guilt, and deceit." -Robert Greene
"In the beginning, strategy indeed belonged to a select few—a general, his staff, the king, a handful of courtiers. Soldiers were not taught strategy, for that would not have helped them on the battlefield. Besides, it was unwise to arm one’s soldiers with the kind of practical knowledge that could help them to organize a mutiny or rebellion." -Robert Greene
"You like to imagine yourself in control of your fate, consciously planning the course of your life as best you can. But you are largely unaware of how deeply your emotions dominate you. They make you veer toward ideas that soothe your ego." -Robert Greene
"We could express this power in the following way: Most of the time we live in an interior world of dreams, desires, and obsessive thoughts. But in this period of exceptional creativity, we are impelled by the need to get something done that has a practical effect. We force ourselves to step outside our inner chamber of habitual thoughts and connect to the world. At these moments, suddenly exposed to new details and ideas, we become more inspired and creative. Once the deadline has passed or the crisis is over, this feeling of power and heightened creativity generally fades away. We return to our distracted state and the sense of control is gone. The problem we face is that this form of power and intelligence is either ignored as a subject of study or is surrounded by all kinds of myths and misconceptions, all of which only add to the mystery. We imagine that creativity and brilliance just appear out of nowhere, the fruit of natural talent, or perhaps of a good mood, or an alignment of the stars. It would be an immense help to clear up the mystery—to name this feeling of power, and to understand how it can be manufactured and maintained. Let us call this sensation mastery—the feeling that we have a greater command of reality, other people, and ourselves. Although it might be something we experience for only a short while, for others—Masters of their field—it becomes their way of life, their way of seeing the world. And at the root of this power is a simple process that leads to mastery—one that is accessible to all of us. The process can be illustrated in the following manner: Let us say we are learning the piano, or entering a new job where we must acquire certain skills. In the beginning, we are outsiders. Our initial impressions of the piano or the work environment are based on prejudgments, and often contain an element of fear. When we first study the piano, the keyboard looks rather intimidating—we don’t understand the relationships between the keys, the chords, the pedals, and everything else that goes into creating music. In a new job situation, we are ignorant of the power relationships between people, the psychology of our boss, the rules and procedures that are considered critical for success. We are confused—the knowledge we need in both cases is over our heads. Although we might enter these situations with excitement about what we can learn or do with our new skills, we quickly realize how much hard work there is ahead of us. The great danger is that we give in to feelings of boredom, impatience, fear, and confusion. We stop observing and learning. The process comes to a halt. If, on the other hand, we manage these emotions and allow time to take its course, something remarkable begins to take shape. As we continue to observe and follow the lead of others, we gain clarity, learning the rules and seeing how things work and fit together. If we keep practicing, we gain fluency; basic skills are mastered, allowing us to take on newer and more exciting challenges." -Robert Greene
"This will rule out working in groups larger than a handful of people—above a certain number, political considerations inevitably rise to the surface. This means working for yourself or on very small startups." -Robert Greene
"At the start of an affair, you need to heighten your presence in the eyes of the other. If you absent yourself too early, you may be forgotten. But once your lover’s emotions are engaged, and the feeling of love has crystallized, absence inflames and excites. Giving no reason for your absence excites even more: The other person assumes he or she is at fault. While you are away, the lover’s imagination takes flight, and a stimulated imagination cannot help but make love grow stronger." -Robert Greene
"The passive-ironic attitude is not cool or romantic, but pathetic and destructive." -Robert Greene
"Find the deepest pleasure in absorbing knowledge and information. Feel like you never have enough." -Robert Greene
"When we arrive at the Creative-Active phase in our career, we are confronted by new challenges that are not simply mental or intellectual. The work is more demanding; we are on our own and the stakes are higher. Our work is now more public and highly scrutinized. We might have the most brilliant ideas and a mind capable of handling the greatest intellectual challenges, but if we are not careful, we will tumble into emotional pitfalls. We will grow insecure, overly anxious about people’s opinions, or excessively self-confident. Or we will become bored and lose a taste for the hard work that is always necessary. Once we fall into these traps it is hard to extricate ourselves; we lose the necessary perspective to see where we have gone wrong. Better to be aware of these pitfalls in advance and never step into them." -Robert Greene
"Powerful people judge everything by what it costs, not just in money but in time, dignity, and peace of mind." -Robert Greene
"Remake yourself into a character of power. Working on yourself like clay should be one of your greatest and most pleasurable life tasks. It makes you in essence an artist—an artist creating yourself." -Robert Greene
"Cada vez que percibas una presión creciente y niveles de estrés en tu vida, obsérvate con atención. Monitorea toda señal de susceptibilidad o sensibilidad inusual, súbitos recelos, temores desproporcionados con las circunstancias. Observa con tanto desapego como puedas y busca tiempo y espacio para estar solo. Necesitas perspectiva. Jamás des por supuesto que puedes soportar un estrés gradual sin un escape emocional. Eso es imposible. Pero mediante tu conciencia y reflexión evitarás tomar decisiones que lamentarías después." -Robert Greene
"no es la posesión sino el deseo lo que impulsa en secreto a la gente." -Robert Greene
"The essence of strategy is not to carry out a brilliant plan that proceeds in steps. It is to put yourself in situations where you have more options than your enemy does...True strategy is being able to do strategy A, B, or C, depending on the circumstances." -Robert Greene
"The only solution is the following: We must learn how to quiet the anxiety we feel whenever we are confronted with anything that seems complex or chaotic. In our journey from apprenticeship to mastery we must patiently learn the various parts and skills that are required, never looking too far ahead. In moments of perceived crisis, we must develop the habit of maintaining our cool and never overreacting." -Robert Greene
"Do not fall for the romantic myths and clichés that abound in culture about creativity—offering us the excuse or panacea that such powers can come cheaply." -Robert Greene
"Por esto, cuando he conseguido una victoria, no vuelvo a emplear la misma táctica otra vez, sino que, respondiendo a las circunstancias, varío mis métodos hasta el infinito. —Sun-tzu (siglo IV a.C.)." -Robert Greene
"There is much to be known, life is short, and life is not life without knowledge. It is therefore an excellent device to acquire knowledge from everybody. Thus, by the sweat of another’s brow, you win the reputation of being an oracle. (Baltasar Gracián, 1601–1658)" -Robert Greene
"Your defense is simple: Consider your reasoning powers, your ability to think for yourself, your most precious possession. Resent any kind of intrusion upon your independent mind by others. When you feel you are in the presence of a demagogue, become doubly wary and analytical." -Robert Greene
"as Machiavelli said, it is better to be feared than loved. Fear you can control; love, never." -Robert Greene
"deception is the most potent weapon in your arsenal, then patience in all things is your crucial shield. Patience will protect you from making moronic blunders. Like mastering your emotions, patience is a skill—it does not come naturally. But nothing about power is natural; power is more godlike than anything in the natural world. And patience is the supreme virtue of the gods, who have nothing but time. Everything good will happen—the grass will grow again, if you give it time and see several steps into the future. Impatience, on the other hand, only makes you look weak. It is a principal impediment to power." -Robert Greene
"realistic appraisal of themselves and their weaknesses; a devotion to truth and reality; a tolerant attitude toward people; and the ability to reach goals that they have set." -Robert Greene
"Familiarity in this existence makes all things tame, for what may seem Terrible or bizarre, when once our eyes have had time to acclimatize," -Robert Greene
"…the ability to reason on your own, your most prized possession as a human." -Robert Greene
"Finally, those who claim to be nonplayers may affect an air of naïveté, to protect them from the accusation that they are after power. Beware again, however, for the appearance of naiveté can be an effective means of deceit" -Robert Greene
"Understand: the more you want the prize, the more you must compensate by examining what getting it will take." -Robert Greene
"Remember: there are always people out there who are more aggressive, more devious, more ruthless than you are, and it is inevitable that some of them will cross your path." -Robert Greene
"clarify your life...the direction in which your skills and talents seem to push you...Ignore the conventional wisdom...It may make sense for some, but that does not mean it bears any relation to your own goals...your actions may be strange to other people, but so much the better" -Robert Greene
"The Stars in the Sky. There can be only one sun at a time. Never obscure the sunlight, or rival the sun’s brilliance; rather, fade into the sky and find ways to heighten the master star’s intensity." -Robert Greene
"You know what charm is: a way of getting the answer yes without having asked any clear question. —Albert Camus" -Robert Greene
"It is often best to avoid the group setting if possible in order to maintain your reasoning powers, or to enter such moments with maximum skepticism." -Robert Greene
"This is because creative people are actually looking at what is hidden in plain sight, and not rushing to generalize and label. Whether such powers are natural or learned does not matter: the mind can be trained to loosen itself up and move outside the grooves." -Robert Greene
"Everything worth doing has a learning curve. When it gets hard, remember the goal: reaching the cycle of accelerated returns." -Robert Greene
"By bending your listener’s ear with talk, you can distract and mesmerize them; the more you talk, in fact, the less suspicious of you they become. The verbose are not perceived as sly and manipulative but as helpless and unsophisticated. This is the reverse of the silent policy employed by the powerful: By talking more, and making yourself appear weaker and less intelligent than your mark, you can practice deception with greater ease." -Robert Greene
"Depending on Others Is Misery" -Robert Greene
"But danger often lies in the envy she stirs up among other women; much of Rome’s hatred for Cleopatra originated in the resentment she provoked among the city’s stern matrons. By playing up her innocence, by making herself seem the victim of male desire, the Siren can somewhat blunt the effects of feminine envy. But on the whole there is little she can do—her power comes from her effect on men, and she must learn to accept, or ignore, the envy of other women." -Robert Greene
"As children our minds were remarkably flexible. We could learn at a rate that far surpasses our adult capacities. We can attribute much of the source of this power to our feelings of weakness and vulnerability. Sensing our inferiority in relation to those older than us, we felt highly motivated to learn. We were also genuinely curious and hungry for new information. We were open to the influence of parents, peers, and teachers." -Robert Greene
"Since power is a human creation, it is inevitably increased by contact with other people." -Robert Greene
"Like Roach, you don’t want to abandon the skills and experience you have gained, but to find a new way to apply them." -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: What would you work on if no one was looking? If money were no object? TED Talk, 'The Key to Transforming Yourself,' October 23, 2013" -Robert Greene
"One seductive and ultimately always fatal path has been the development of protective armor. An organism can protect itself by concealment, by swiftness in flight, by effective counterattack, by uniting for attack and defense with other individuals of its species and also by encasing itself within bony plates and spines…. Almost always the experiment of armor failed. Creatures adopting it tended to become unwieldy. They had to move relatively slowly. Hence they were forced to live mainly on vegetable food; and thus in general they were at a disadvantage as compared with foes living on more rapidly 'profitable' animal food: The repeated failure of protective armor shows that, even at a somewhat low evolutionary level, mind triumphed over mere matter. It is this sort of triumph which has been supremely exemplified in Man. SCIENTIFIC THEORY AND RELIGION, E. W. BARNES, 1933" -Robert Greene
"Empathy plays an enormous role in learning and knowledge." -Robert Greene
"pioneer a totally new field, known as neurobotics." -Robert Greene
"Do not waste precious time trying to steal a sheep or two ..." -Robert Greene
"Lo que la gente diga de si misma no importa; dirá lo que sea. Ve lo que ha hecho; los actos no mienten. También puedes aplicar esta lógica a ti mism@. Al analizar una derrota, identifica las cosas que habrías podido hacer de otra manera. La culpa de tus fracasos la tienen tus malas estrategias, no las trampas del contrincante. Eres responsable de lo bueno y lo malo en tu vida. Como corolario de esto, ve todo lo que hacen los demás como una maniobra estratégica, un intento por conseguir la victoria. Quienes te acusan de desleal, por ejemplo; quienes intentan hacerte sentir culpable y hablan de justicia y moral, tratan de obtener una ventaja en el tablero." -Robert Greene
"People are enthralled by mystery; because it invites constant interpretation, they never tire of it. The mysterious cannot be grasped. And what cannot be seized and consumed creates power." -Robert Greene
"The Seesaw. Up and down and up and down go the arguers, getting nowhere fast. Get off the seesaw and show them your meaning without kicking or pushing. Leave them at the top and let gravity bring them gently to the ground." -Robert Greene
"Martyrdom serves no purpose—better to live on in an oppressive world, even to thrive in it. Meanwhile find a way to express your ideas subtly for those who understand you. Laying your pearls before swine will only bring you trouble." -Robert Greene
"Knowing in a deep way who you are, your uniqueness, will make it that much easier to avoid all of life’s other pitfalls." -Robert Greene
"If you are more intelligent than your master, for example, seem the opposite: Make him appear more intelligent than you. Act naive. Make it seem that you need his expertise. Commit harmless mistakes that will not hurt you in the long run but will give you the chance to ask for his help. Masters adore such requests. A master who cannot bestow on you the gifts of his experience may direct rancor and ill will at you instead." -Robert Greene
"Posees una fuerza interior que te guía a tu tareaen la vida: lo que estás destinado a cumplir en eltiempo de tu existencia. En la infancia esta fuer-za era clara para ti. Te dirigía a actividades ytemas acordes con tus inclinaciones naturales,que despertaban una curiosidad honda y pri-maria. En años posteriores, esa fuerza tiendea aparecer y desaparecer a medida que ha-ces más caso a tus padres y compañeros, alas ansiedades diarias que te desgastan.Ésa puede ser la fuente de tu infelicidad:tu falta de contacto con lo que eres y loque te vuelve único. El primer paso ala maestría siempre es interno: saberquién eres y recuperar esa fuerza in-nata. Una vez resuelto esto, halla-rás tu profesión y todo lo demásse aclarará. Nunca es demasiadotarde para iniciar este proceso." -Robert Greene
"alabo, Menelao, si matas a tu esposa. / Pero, si la ves… ¡huye! / El amor y el deseo pueden cegarte. / Es la que cautiva los ojos de los hombres; / es la que desarraiga de sus cimientos las ciudades; / es la que hace arder los palacios… / ¡tan seductora es! ¡Bien la conozco, para mi desdicha; bien la conoces tú; bien la conocen todos los que por ella sucumbieron!" -Robert Greene
"The men who have changed the universe have never gotten there by working on leaders, but rather by moving the masses. Working on leaders is the method of intrigue and only leads to secondary results. Working on the masses, however, is the stroke of genius that changes the face of the world. NAPOLEON BONAPARTE, 1769–1821" -Robert Greene
"Power is endlessly seductive and deceptive in its own way. It is a labyrinth—your mind becomes consumed with solving its infinite problems, and you soon realize how pleasantly lost you have become. In other words, it becomes most amusing by taking it seriously." -Robert Greene
"Our ancestors’ survival depended on the intensity of their attention. The longer and harder they looked, the more they could distinguish between an opportunity and a danger." -Robert Greene
"There is one variety of this type, however, that is more dangerous and toxic, because of the levels of power he or she can attain—namely the narcissistic leader. (This type has been around for a long time. In the Bible, Absalom was perhaps the first recorded example, but we find frequent references in ancient literature to others—Alcibiades, Cicero, and Emperor Nero, to name a few.) Almost all dictator types and tyrannical CEOs fall into this category. They generally have more ambition than the average deep narcissist and for a while can funnel this energy into work. Full of narcissistic self-confidence, they attract attention and followers. They say and do things that other people don’t dare say or do, which seems admirable and authentic. They might have a vision for some innovative product, and because they radiate such confidence, they can find others to help them realize their vision. They are experts at using people." -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: Examine the faults you see in others and how they are in you as well." -Robert Greene
"What happens first always appears better and more original than what comes after." -Robert Greene
"You must always keep in mind the primary corollary of this law: people never do something just once." -Robert Greene
"Understand: your mind is weaker than your emotions. But you become aware of this weakness only in moments of adversity—precisely the time when you need strength." -Robert Greene
"People who accuse you of being unfair, for example, who try to make you feel guilty, who talk about justice and morality, are trying to gain an advantage on the chessboard." -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: Confront one of your limitations—one of the obstructions in your path—today. Break beyond it, climb over it, think your way around it. Don’t run from it. It was created for you. Mastery, I: Discover Your Calling—The Life’s Task" -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: Remember that greater control over events will come from realistic assessments of the situation, precisely what is made most difficult by a brain submerged in trivia. The Laws of Human Nature, 6: Elevate Your Perspective—The Law of Shortsightedness" -Robert Greene
"In some people the rider is too strong, holds the reins too tightly, and is afraid to occasionally let the animal go into a gallop." -Robert Greene
"Sirens have an abundance of sexual energy and know how to use it. Rakes insatiably adore the opposite sex, and their desire is infectious. Ideal Lovers have an aesthetic sensibility that they apply to romance. Dandies like to play with their image, creating a striking and androgynous allure. Naturals are spontaneous and open. Coquettes are self-sufficient, with a fascinating cool at their core. Charmers want and know how to please—they are social creatures. Charismatics have an unusual confidence in themselves. Stars are ethereal and envelop themselves in mystery." -Robert Greene
"Reconnect with Your Childhood Obsession" -Robert Greene
"What makes your mind stronger, and more able to control your emotions, is internal discipline and toughness." -Robert Greene
"no existe un gesto que no comunique un significado." -Robert Greene
"Yet another way of avoiding the game would be perfect honesty and straightforwardness, since one of the main techniques of those who seek power is deceit and secrecy. But being perfectly honest will inevitably hurt and insult a great many people, some of whom will choose to injure you in return." -Robert Greene
"Da Vinci había seguido fielmente su guía hasta el final y, habiendo completado su curso, era hora de morir. Quizá en ese momento regresaron a él estas palabras, escritas años atrás en su libreta: 'Así como un día rebosante trae consigo dulces sueños, una vida bien empleada procura una muerte dulce'." -Robert Greene
"Any man who tries to be good all the time is bound to come to ruin among the great number who are not good. Hence a prince who wants to keep his authority must learn how not to be good, and use that knowledge, or refrain from using it, as necessity requires. THE PRINCE, Niccolò Machiavelli, 1469–1527" -Robert Greene
"Albert Einstein called the intuitive or metaphoric mind a sacred gift. He added that the rational mind was a faithful servant. It is paradoxical that in the context of modern life we have begun to worship the servant and defile the divine. —Bob Samples, The Metaphoric Mind" -Robert Greene
"Espiritualize sua guerra. Você enfrenta batalha todos os dias - essa é a realidade para todas as criaturas em sua luta pela sobrevivência. Mas a maior batalha de todas é com você mesmo - suas fraquezas, suas emoções, sua falta de decisão em compreender as coisas até o final. Você deve declarar guerra incessante contra você mesmo. Como um guerreiro na vida, você deve aceitar o combate e o conflito como modos de provar quem você é, de melhorar suas habilidades, de ganhar coragem, confiança e experiência. Em vez de reprimir suas dúvidas e temores, você deve derrubá-los de frente e lutar contra eles. Você precisa de mais desafios, e você convida a mais guerra. Você está forjando o espírito do guerreiro, e somente a prática constante o levará até lá." -Robert Greene
"We all naturally possess the most remarkable tool for connecting to people and attaining social power—empathy. When cultivated and properly used, it can allow us to see into the moods and minds of others, giving us the power to anticipate people’s actions and gently lower their resistance. This instrument, however, is blunted by our habitual self-absorption. We are all narcissists, some deeper on the spectrum than others. Our mission in life is to come to terms with this self-love and learn how to turn our sensitivity outward, toward others, instead of inward. We must recognize at the same time the toxic narcissists among us before getting enmeshed in their dramas and poisoned by their envy." -Robert Greene
"When you show yourself in the world and display your talents, you naturally stir up all kinds of resentment, envy, and other manifestations of insecurity." -Robert Greene
"The German philosopher Arthur Schopenhauer devised a quick way to test for envy. Tell suspected enviers some good news about yourself—a promotion, a new and exciting love interest, a book contract. You will notice a very quick expression of disappointment" -Robert Greene
"Always make those above you feel comfortably superior. In your desire to please and impress them, do not go too far in displaying your talents or you might accomplish the opposite—inspire fear and insecurity. Make your masters appear more brilliant than they are and you will attain the heights of power." -Robert Greene
"The solution is a form of retreat inside ourselves, to the past, to more concentrated forms of thought and action. As Schopenhauer wrote, 'Intellect is a magnitude of intensity, not a magnitude of extensity." -Robert Greene
"will be tempted to opt out. They will develop a greater taste for ease and comfort; they will increasingly settle on simplified ideas of reality and conventional ways of thinking; they will fall prey to seductive formulas that offer quick and easy knowledge. They will lose a taste for developing skills that require time and a resilient ego—it can hurt our self-esteem in the initial phases of learning a skill, as we are made so aware of our awkwardness. Such people will rail against the world and blame others for their problems; they will find political justifications for opting out, when in truth they simply cannot handle the challenges of engaging with complexity. In trying to simplify their mental lives, they disconnect themselves from reality and neutralize all of the powers developed by the human brain over so many millions of years." -Robert Greene
"The greedier they become, the more they can be led around." -Robert Greene
"Occasional mistakes are inevitable—the world is just too unpredictable. People of power, however, are undone not by the mistakes they make, but by the way they deal with them." -Robert Greene
"In our culture we tend to denigrate practice. We want to imagine that great feats occur naturally—that they are a sign of someone’s genius or superior talent. Getting to a high level of achievement through practice seems so banal, so uninspiring. Besides, we don’t want to have to think of the 10,000 to 20,000 hours that go into such mastery. These values of ours are oddly counterproductive—they cloak from us the fact that almost anyone can reach such heights through tenacious effort, something that should encourage us all." -Robert Greene
"Courts are, unquestionably, the seats of politeness and good breeding; were they not so, they would be the seats of slaughter and desolation. Those who now smile upon and embrace, would affront and stab, each other, if manners did not interpose.... LORD CHESTERFIELD, 1694-1773" -Robert Greene
"We are entering a world in which we can rely less and less upon the state, the corporation, or family or friends to help and protect us. It is a globalized, harshly competitive environment. We must learn to develop ourselves." -Robert Greene
"A veces puedes lograr más no haciendo nada." -Robert Greene
"See Mastery as Salvation The misery that oppresses you lies not in your profession but in yourself! What man in the world would not find his situation intolerable if he chooses a craft, an art, indeed any form of life, without experiencing an inner calling? —Johann Wolfgang von Goethe" -Robert Greene
"Although it involves much pain, the pleasure that comes from the overall process of creativity is of an intensity that makes us want to repeat it. That is why creative people return again and again to such endeavors, despite all of the anxiety and doubt they stir up. It is nature’s way of rewarding us for the effort; if we had no such rewards, people would not engage in such activity, and mankind would suffer irreparably from this loss. This pleasure will be your reward as well, to whatever degree you pursue the process." -Robert Greene
"You are here not merely to gratify your impulses and consume what others have made but to make and contribute as well, to serve a higher purpose." -Robert Greene
"This is The Primary Law of the Creative Dynamic that you must engrave deeply in your mind and never forget: your emotional commitment to what you are doing will be translated directly into your work." -Robert Greene
"Often those who are the most self-absorbed will surround their actions with a moral or saintly aura, or will make a show of supporting all of the right causes. Confused by these appearances, when it is time to ask such people for assistance, you will often appeal to their sense of gratitude, their seemingly charitable nature, or their friendly feelings. You are then frustrated and disappointed when they politely decline to help you, or put you off long enough that you give up. Of course, they never reveal the real reason for this behavior—that there is nothing in it for themselves." -Robert Greene
"People are more complex than you imagine. Your goal is to simply see their point of view better. As you go through this process, it becomes like a muscle that gets stronger the more you exercise it." -Robert Greene
"ينخدع، لأن المؤمن كَيِّس فَطِنِ، وأن يستخدم ذكاءه وطاقاته للخير، وإذا كان طيباً فلا ينبغي أن تصل به الطيبة الى حد السذاجة بحيث يخدعه الخبيث." -Robert Greene
"Never" -Robert Greene
"coquettish" -Robert Greene
"Some people do not become aware of inclinations or future career paths in their childhood, but instead are made painfully aware of their limitations." -Robert Greene
"The following are six fundamental ideals you should aim for in transforming yourself into a strategic warrior in daily life." -Robert Greene
"DO NOT COMMIT TO ANYONE JUDGMENT It is the fool who always rushes to take sides. Do not commit to any side or cause but yourself. By maintaining your independence you become the master of others – playing people against one another, making them pursue you." -Robert Greene
"Take, for example, a young man who had a distant, narcissistic mother. As an infant or child, he experienced her coldness as abandonment, and to be abandoned must mean he was somehow unworthy of her love. Or similarly, a new sibling on the scene caused his mother to give him much less attention, which he equally experienced as abandonment. Later in life, in a relationship, a woman might hint at disapproval of some trait or action of his, all of which is part of a healthy relationship. This will hit a trigger point—she is noticing his flaws, which, he imagines, precedes her abandonment of him. He feels a powerful rush of emotion, a sense of imminent betrayal. He does not see the source of this; it is beyond his control. He overreacts, accuses, withdraws, all of which leads to the very thing he feared—abandonment. His reaction was to some reflection in his mind, not to the reality. This is the height of irrationality." -Robert Greene
"Men are more ready to repay an injury than a benefit, because gratitude is a burden and revenge a pleasure. TACITUS, c. A.D. 55–120" -Robert Greene
"your weaknesses, your emotions, your lack of resolution in seeing things through to the end. You must declare unceasing war on yourself. As a warrior in life, you welcome combat and conflict as ways to prove yourself, to better your skills, to gain courage, confidence, and experience. Instead of repressing your doubts and fears, you must face them down, do battle with them." -Robert Greene
"هناك شيء تريده ولا تستطيع امتلاكه. فاظهر احتقارك له. فكلما قل الاهتمام الذي تظهره، فإنك ستبدو أكثر تفوقاً." -Robert Greene
"War is the continuation of politics by other means. —Carl von Clausewitz (1780–1831)" -Robert Greene
"On the other hand, reality beckons you. To absorb your mind in what is nearest, instead of most distant, brings a much different feeling. With the people in your circle, you can always connect on a deeper level. There is much you will never know about the people you deal with, and this can be a source of endless fascination. You can connect more deeply to your environment. The place where you live has a deep history that you can immerse yourself in. Knowing your environment better will present many opportunities for power. As for yourself, you have mysterious corners you can never fully understand. In trying to know yourself better, you can take charge of your own nature instead of being a slave to it. And your work has endless possibilities for improvement and innovation, endless challenges for the imagination. These are the things that are closest to you and compose your real, not virtual world." -Robert Greene
"Anything that is alive is in a continual state of change and movement. The moment that you rest, thinking that you have attained the level you desire, a part of your mind enters decay" -Robert Greene
"Power requires self-discipline." -Robert Greene
"امدد قانون الندرة ليشمل مهاراتك. واجعل ما تقدمه إلى العالم نادراً ويصعب العثور عليه. وعندئذ تزيد قيمته على الفور." -Robert Greene
"They understand the power of persistence, and so it becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy—knowing its value, they are able to summon up the energy and self-belief to solve the problem. They are adopting Hannibal’s motto: 'I will either find a way, or make a way.' You must do the same. The trick is to want something badly enough that nothing will stop you or dull your energy. Fill yourself with the requisite desire to reach a goal. Train yourself to not give up as easily as you did in the past. Keep attacking from new angles, in new ways. Drop the background doubts and continue striking with full force, knowing that you can break through anything if you don’t let up. Once you sense the power in this form of attack, you will keep returning to it." -Robert Greene
"they are able to direct their focus and their love into their work, becoming great artists, creators, and inventors. Because their outward focus on the work is more intense, they tend to be successful in their ventures, which gives them the necessary attention and validation." -Robert Greene
"Sacrifice is a ritual, perhaps the most ancient ritual of all; ritual too is a well-spring of power." -Robert Greene
"Unfortunately there is no doubt about the fact that man is, as a whole, less good than he imagines himself or wants to be. Everyone carries a shadow, and the less it is embodied in the individual’s conscious life, the blacker and denser it is. —Carl Jung" -Robert Greene
"Procrastinating on a project, showing up late, or making offhand comments designed to upset people are common forms of low-level passive aggression." -Robert Greene
"Because humans are social creatures by nature, power depends on social interaction and circulation. To make yourself powerful you must place yourself at the center of things, as Louis XIV did at Versailles." -Robert Greene
"Remember: The key to fantasy is distance. The distant has allure and promise, seems simple and problem free. What you are offering, then, should be ungraspable. Never let it become oppressively familiar; it is the mirage in the distance, withdrawing as the sucker approaches. Never be too direct in describing the fantasy—keep it vague. As a forger of fantasies, let your victim come close enough to see and be tempted, but keep him far away enough that he stays dreaming and desiring." -Robert Greene
"Anger and emotion are strategically counterproductive. You must always stay calm and objective. But if you can make your enemies angry while staying calm yourself, you gain a decided advantage. Put your enemies off-balance: Find the chink in their vanity through which you can rattle them and you hold the strings." -Robert Greene
"Withdrawal and disappearance are classic ways of controlling the options. You give people a sense of how things will fall apart without you, and you offer them a 'choice': I stay away and you suffer the consequences, or I return under circumstances that I dictate. In this method of controlling people’s options, they choose the option that gives you power because the alternative is just too unpleasant. You force their hand, but indirectly: They seem to have a choice. Whenever people feel they have a choice, they walk into your trap that much more easily." -Robert Greene
"It is important to remember, though, that being self-reliant does not mean burdening yourself with petty details. You must be able to distinguish between small matters that are best left to others and larger issues that require your attention and care." -Robert Greene
"They had to serve their masters, but if they seemed to fawn, if they curried favor too obviously, the other courtiers around them would notice and would act against them." -Robert Greene
"Theater seemed to contain the essence of life, in its concentrated, dramatic form. Like a religious ritual, it had a powerful, instant appeal to the common man." -Robert Greene
"lesson: Once the words are out, you cannot take them back. Keep them under control. Be particularly careful with sarcasm: The momentary satisfaction you gain with your biting words will be outweighed by the price you pay." -Robert Greene
"Treating everyone equally means ignoring their differences, elevating the less skillful and suppressing those who excel." -Robert Greene
"We will quote the Bible, refer to unverifiable statistics. Who can be persuaded by bags of air like that? Action and demonstration are much more powerful and meaningful" -Robert Greene
"Esa distancia interior nos fascina. Las estrellas se burlan de sí mismas, ajustan siempre su imagen, la adaptan a los tiempos. Nada es más risible que una imagen que estuvo de moda hace diez años pero que ya no lo está. Las estrellas deben renovar constantemente su lustre, o enfrentarán" -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: The process of following your Life’s Task all the way to mastery can essentially begin at any point in life. The hidden force within you is always there and ready to be engaged, but only if you can silence the noise from others. Mastery, I: Discover Your Calling—The Life’s Task" -Robert Greene
"When you show yourself to the world and display your talents, you naturally stir all kinds of resentment, envy, and other manifestations of insecurity... you cannot spend your life worrying about the petty feelings of others." -Robert Greene
"Nonplayers are masters at visual effects, to distract from their manipulations. Guard yourself by paying more attention to the content and the facts than the form of their message." -Robert Greene
"Understand: The social force is neither positive nor negative. It is simply a physiological part of our nature. Many aspects of this force that developed long ago are quite dangerous in the modern world. For instance, the deep suspicion we tend to feel towards outsiders to our group, and our need to demonize them, evolved among our earliest ancestors because of the tremendous dangers of infectious diseases and the aggressive intentions of rival hunter gatherers. But such group reactions are no longer relevant in the 21st-century. In fact, with our technological prowess, they can be the source of our most violent and genocidal behavior. In general, to the the degree that the social force tends to degrade our ability to think independently and a rationally, we can say it exerts a downward pull into more primitive ways of behaving, unsuited to modern conditions." -Robert Greene
"People cannot stay motivated if their material needs go unmet. If they feel exploited in any way, their natural selfishness will come to the surface and they will begin to peel off from the group." -Robert Greene
"In many ways we are more split than ever between our conscious, social selves and our unconscious Shadow. We live in a culture that enforces powerful codes of correctness that we must abide by or face the shaming that is not so common on social media. We are supposed to live up to the ideals of selflessness, which are impossible for us because we are not angels." -Robert Greene
"The human that depended on focused attention for its survival now becomes the distracted scanning animal, unable to think in depth, yet unable to depend on instincts." -Robert Greene
"you must begin with the assumption that you are ignorant and that you have natural biases that will make you judge people incorrectly." -Robert Greene
"Primero tendrás que demostrar que eres menos inhibido que tu público: que irradias una sexualidad peligrosa, no temes a la muerte, eres deliciosamente espontáneo. Aun un indicio de estas cualidades hará pensar a la gente que eres más poderoso de lo que en verdad eres." -Robert Greene
"Our Life inevitably involves obstacles, frustrations, pain, and separations. How we come to handle such moments in our early years plays a large prole in the development of our overall attitude toward life. For many people, such difficult moments inspire them to restrict what they see and experience. They go through life trying to avoid any kind of adversity. even if this means never really challenging themselves or getting much success in their careers. Instead of learning from negative experiences, they want to repress them. Your goal is to move in the opposite direction, to embrace all obstacles as learning experiences, as means to getting stronger. In this way you embrace life itself." -Robert Greene
"Nunca haga lo que otros pueden hacer por usted." -Robert Greene
"Your being alive is an equally unlikely and uncanny event. It required a very particular chain of events leading to the meeting of your parents and your birth, all of which could have gone very differently. At this moment, as you read this, you are conscious of life along with billions of others, and only for a brief time, until you die. Fully taking in this reality is what we shall call the Sublime. (For more on this, see chapter 18.) It cannot be put into words. It is too awesome. Feeling a part of that tenuous experiment of life is a kind of reverse grandiosity—you are not disturbed by your relative smallness but rather ecstatic at the sense of being a drop in this ocean." -Robert Greene
"we all share in this dilemma. To learn from mentors, we must be open and completely receptive to their ideas. We must fall under their spell. But if we take this too far, we become so marked by their influence that we have no internal space to incubate and develop our own voice," -Robert Greene
"Power is in many ways a game of appearances, and when you say less than necessary, you inevitably appear greater and more powerful than you are. Your silence will make other people uncomfortable. Humans are machines of interpretation and explanation; they have to know what you are thinking. When you carefully control what you reveal, they cannot pierce your intentions or your meaning. Your short answers and silences will put them on the defensive, and they will jump in, nervously filling the silence with all kinds of comments that will reveal valuable information about them and their weaknesses. They will leave a meeting with you feeling as if they had been robbed, and they will go home and ponder your every word. This extra attention to your brief comments will only add to your power. Saying less than necessary is not for kings and statesmen only. In most areas of life, the less you say, the more profound and mysterious you appear." -Robert Greene
"We imagine we are looking for the truth, or being realistic, when in fact we are holding on to ideas that bring a release from tension and soothe our egos, make us feel superior. This pleasure principle in thinking is the source of all of our mental biases. If you believe that you are somehow immune to any of the following biases, it is simply an example of the pleasure principle in action" -Robert Greene
"Destroy the weeds of envy by giving them nothing to feed on." -Robert Greene
"Image: The Thumbscrew. Your enemy has secrets that he guards, thinks thoughts he will not reveal. But they come out in ways he cannot help. It is there some where, a groove of weakness on his head, at his heart, over his belly. Once you find the groove, put your thumb in it and turn him at will." -Robert Greene
"The wise man profits more from his enemies, than a fool from his friends. (Baltasar Gracián, 1601-1658)" -Robert Greene
"Do not show all your cards. An air of mystery heightens your presence; it also creates anticipation." -Robert Greene
"The recreation of yourself in the eyes of others is a powerful process that must not be left to chance." -Robert Greene
"be aware of the Emotional Pitfalls—complacency, boredom, grandiosity, and the like—that continually threaten to derail or block our progress." -Robert Greene
"You can die from someone else’s misery—emotional states are as infectious as diseases. You may feel you are helping the drowning man but you are only precipitating your own disaster." -Robert Greene
"Piénsalo así: hay dos tipos de fracaso. El primero resulta de no poner nunca a prueba tus ideas, por miedo o a la espera del momento adecuado. De esta clase de fracaso jamás aprenderás nada, y tu pusilanimidad te destruirá. El segundo tipo resulta de un espíritu intrépido y osado. Si tropiezas por esta razón, el daño que hagas a tu fama será muy inferior a tu aprendizaje." -Robert Greene
"Mira hasta el final, sea lo que fuere lo que estés contemplando. A menudo Dios otorga al hombre un breve instante de felicidad, para luego arruinarlo por completo." -Robert Greene
"In the process leading to this ultimate form of power, we can identify three distinct phases or levels. The first is the Apprenticeship; the second is the Creative-Active; the third, Mastery." -Robert Greene
"una vez que hayas elegido a la persona correcta, debes hacer que el objetivo venga a ti. Si en etapas iniciales logras hacerle creer que es él quien realiza el primer acercamiento, has ganado el juego." -Robert Greene
"We want to imagine ourselves not only as civilized and sophisticated but also as individuals with conscious control of much of what we do. Our group behavior tends to shatter this myth, and historical examples such as the Cultural Revolution frighten us with our own possibilities. We do not like to see ourselves as social animals operating under particular compulsions. It offends our self-opinion as a species." -Robert Greene
"Ticker tape fever. During the run-up to the 1929 crash on Wall Street, many people had become addicted to playing the stock market, and this addiction had a physical component—the sound of the ticker tape that electronically registered each change in a stock’s price. Hearing that clicking noise indicated something was happening, somebody was trading and making a fortune. Many felt drawn to the sound itself, which felt like the heartbeat of Wall Street. We no longer have the ticker tape. Instead many of us have become addicted to the minute-by-minute news cycle, to 'what’s trending,' to the Twitter feed, which is often accompanied by a ping that has its own narcotic effects. We feel like we are connected to the very flow of life itself, to events as they change in real time, and to other people who are following the same instant reports. This need to know instantly has a built-in momentum. Once we expect to have some bit of news quickly, we can never go back to the slower pace of just a year ago. In fact, we feel the need for more information more quickly. Such impatience tends to spill over into other aspects of life—driving, reading a book, following a film. Our attention span decreases, as well as our tolerance for any obstacles in our path." -Robert Greene
"Knowing your limitations, you will not try your hand at things for which you have no capacity or inclination. Instead, you will choose career paths that suit you and mesh with your character. In general, you accept and embrace your character. Your desire is not to become someone else but to be more thoroughly yourself, realizing your true potential. You see your character as the clay that you will work with, slowly transforming your very weaknesses into strengths. You do not run away from your flaws but rather see them as a true source of power." -Robert Greene
"Alexander the Great, conqueror of the Mediterranean basin and the Middle East through to India, had had the great Aristotle as his tutor and mentor, and throughout his short life he remained devoted to philosophy and his master’s teachings. He once complained to Aristotle that during his long campaigns he had no one with whom he could discuss philosophical matters. Aristotle responded by suggesting that he take Callisthenes, a former pupil of Aristotle’s and a promising philosopher in his own right, along on the next campaign. Aristotle had schooled Callisthenes in the skills of being a courtier, but the young man secretly scoffed at them. He believed in pure philosophy, in unadorned words, in speaking the naked truth. If Alexander loved learning so much, Callisthenes thought, he could not object to one who spoke his mind. During one of Alexander’s major campaigns, Callisthenes spoke his mind one too many times and Alexander had him put to death." -Robert Greene
"One of the most important elements in the rhythm of drama is suspense" -Robert Greene
"It’s a pain that we don’t discuss or even understand." -Robert Greene
"The man of power welcomes conflict, using enemies to enhance his reputation as a surefooted fighter who can be relied upon in times of uncertainty." -Robert Greene
"Power is in many ways a game of appearances, and when you say less than necessary, you inevitably appear greater and more powerful than you are. Your silence will make other people uncomfortable. Humans are machines of interpretation and explanation; they have to know what you are thinking. When you carefully control what you reveal, they cannot pierce your intentions or your meaning." -Robert Greene
"See into the Spirit of the Times A man’s shortcomings are taken from his epoch; his virtues and greatness belong to himself. —Johann Wolfgang von Goethe" -Robert Greene
"(Winning arguments is rarely worth the effort.)" -Robert Greene
"We humans are born with a tremendous potential for understanding people on a level that is not merely intellectual. It is a power developed by our earliest ancestors, in which they learned how to intuit the moods and feelings of others by placing themselves in their perspective." -Robert Greene
"Remember that everything people do is a sign of some sort; there is no such thing as a gesture that does not communicate. You will pay attention to people’s silences, the clothes they wear, the arrangement of objects on their desk, their breathing patterns, the tension in certain muscles (particularly in the neck), the subtext in their conversations—what is not said or what is implied. All of these discoveries should excite and impel you to go further." -Robert Greene
"We are subject to forces from deep within us that drive our behavior and that operate below the level of our awareness." -Robert Greene
"La falta de afecto, neurosis, angustia y frustración encontradas por el psicoanálisis proceden, sin duda, de la imposibilidad de amar o ser amado, de la imposibilidad de dar o recibir placer, pero el desencanto radical proviene de la seducción y su fracaso. Sólo quienes se ubican completamente fuera de la seducción están enfermos, aun si son totalmente capaces de amar y hacer el amor. El psicoanálisis cree tratar el desorden del sexo y el deseo, pero en realidad se ocupa de los desórdenes de la seducción […] Las más graves deficiencias conciernen siempre a la fascinación y no al placer, al encanto y no a una satisfacción vital o sexual. JEAN BAUDRILLARD, De la seducción" -Robert Greene
"No good can ever come from deviating from the path that you were destined to follow. You will be assailed by varieties of hidden pain. Most often you deviate because of the lure of money, of more immediate prospects of prosperity. Because this does not comply with something deep within you, your interest will lag and eventually the money will not come so easily. You will search for other easy sources of money, moving further and further away from your path. Not seeing clearly ahead of you, you will end up in a dead-end career. Even if your material needs are met, you will feel an emptiness inside that you will need to fill with any kind of belief system, drugs, or diversions. There is no compromise here, no way of escaping the dynamic. You will recognize how far you have deviated by the depth of your pain and frustration. You must listen to the message of this frustration, this pain, and let it guide you…It is a matter of life and death." -Robert Greene
"In dealing with your career and its inevitable changes, you must think in the following way: You are not tied to a particular position; your loyalty is not to a career or a company. You are committed to your Life’s Task, to giving it full expression." -Robert Greene
"If you come across any special trait of meanness or stupidity you must be careful not to let it annoy or distress you, but to look upon it merely as an addition to your knowledge-a new fact to be considered in studying the character of humanity. Your attitude towards it will be that of the mineralogist who stumbles upon a very characteristic specimen of a mineral.""--Arthur Schopenhauer" -Robert Greene
"If, like Galileo, you can make your master shine even more in the eyes of others, then you are a godsend and you will be instantly promoted." -Robert Greene
"La fortaleza emana de una sensación de seguridad y autoestima." -Robert Greene
"Today no political campaign can work without seduction. Since the era of John F. Kennedy, political figures are required to have a degree of charisma, a fascinating presence to keep their audience’s attention, which is half the battle. The film world and media create a galaxy of seductive stars and images. We are saturated in the seductive. But even if much has changed in degree and scope, the essence of seduction is constant: never be forceful or direct; instead, use pleasure as bait, playing on people’s emotions, stirring desire and confusion, inducing psychological surrender. In seduction as it is practiced today, the methods of Cleopatra still hold." -Robert Greene
"No matter how hard people try to pull you in, never let your interest in their affairs and petty squabbles go beyond the surface." -Robert Greene
"In 1878 the American robber baron Jay Gould created a company that began to threaten the monopoly of the telegraph company Western Union. The directors of Western Union decided to buy Gould’s company up— they had to spend a hefty sum, but they figured they had managed to rid themselves of an irritating competitor. A few months later, though, Gould was it at again, complaining he had been treated unfairly. He started up a second company to compete with Western Union and its new acquisition. The same thing happened again: Western Union bought him out to shut him up. Soon the pattern began for the third time, but now Gould went for the jugular: He suddenly staged a bloody takeover struggle and managed to gain complete control of Western Union. He had established a pattern that had tricked the company’s directors into thinking his goal was to be bought out at a handsome rate. Once they paid him off, they relaxed and failed to notice that he was actually playing for higher stakes. The pattern is powerful in that it deceives the other person into expecting the opposite of what you are really doing." -Robert Greene
"La autoestima es decisiva en la seducción. Una autoestima baja repele, la seguridad y autosuficiencia atraen. Cuanto menos parezcas necesitar de los demás, es más probable que se sientan atraídos hacia ti. Comprende la importancia de esto en todas las relaciones y descubrirás que tu necesidad es más fácil de suprimir." -Robert Greene
"impetuosity," -Robert Greene
"El amante accesible. Cuando la gente madura, se protege contra experiencias dolorosas encerrándose en sí misma. El precio de esto es la rigidez, física y mental. Pero los niños están por naturaleza desprotegidos y dispuestos a experimentar, y esta receptividad es muy atractiva." -Robert Greene
"Any mistakes you commit through audacity are easily corrected with more audacity. Everyone admires the bold; no one honors the timid." -Robert Greene
"Low-grade emotions continually affect our thinking, and they originate from our own impulses—for instance, the desire for pleasing and comforting thoughts. High-grade emotion, however, comes at certain moments, reaches an explosive pitch, and is generally sparked by something external—a person who gets under our skin, or particular circumstances. The level of arousal is higher and our attention is captured completely." -Robert Greene
"Examine Your Emotions to Their Roots" -Robert Greene
"Feeling superior and beyond it is a sure sign that the irrational is at work." -Robert Greene
"They become infected with the leader’s aggression and get to act it out on others, perhaps those below them. But such an environment is tiring, and those serving the aggressor are constantly taking hits to their self-esteem. With most aggressors, the turnover is high and the morale low. As the ancient Greek dramatist Sophocles once wrote, 'Whoever makes his way into a tyrant’s court becomes his slave, although he went there a free man." -Robert Greene
"Know How Little You Know" -Robert Greene
"When you reveal the inner workings of your creation, you become just one mere mortal among others. What is understandable is not awe inspiring" -Robert Greene
"Once a back-and-forth dynamic is sparked, the relationship has almost limitless potential for learning and absorbing power." -Robert Greene
"We humans like to believe that we are consistent and mature, and that we have reasonable control over our lives. We make decisions based on rational considerations, on what will benefit us the most. We have free will. We know who we are, more or less. But in one particular aspect of life these self-opinions are all easily shattered - when we fall in love." -Robert Greene
"Be ostentatious and be seen.... What is not seen is as though it did not exist...." -Robert Greene
"words have that insidious ability to be interpreted according to the other person’s mood and insecurities." -Robert Greene
"CONCEAL YOUR INTENTIONS" -Robert Greene
"There are no shortcuts or ways to bypass the Apprenticeship Phase. It is the nature of the human brain to require such lengthy exposure to a field, which allows for complex skills to become deeply embedded and frees the mind up for real creative activity. The very desire to find shortcuts makes you eminently unsuited for any kind of mastery. There is no possible reversal to this process." -Robert Greene
"In moments of uncertainty and danger, you need to fight this desire to turn inward. Instead, make yourself more accessible, seek out old allies and make new ones, force yourself into more and more different circles. This has been the trick of powerful people for centuries." -Robert Greene
"Schüppach teaches us the everlasting power of belief in nature, and in simplicity. Nature, in reality, is full of much that is terrifying—poisonous plants, fierce animals, sudden disasters, plagues. Belief in the healing, comforting quality of nature is really a constructed myth, a romanticism. But the appeal to nature can bring you great power, especially in complicated and stressful times." -Robert Greene
"استخدم الغياب لخلق الاحترام والتوقير. فإن الغياب يضخم الشهرة إذا كان الحضور يقلل منها." -Robert Greene
"When you look at the exceptionally creative work of Masters, you must not ignore the years of practice, the endless routines, the hours of doubt, and the tenacious overcoming of obstacles these people endured. Creative energy is the fruit of such efforts and nothing else." -Robert Greene
"Accept People as Facts" -Robert Greene
"Change Yourself from within, Little by Little" -Robert Greene
"A person of strong character is like gold—rare but invaluable. They can adapt, learn, and improve themselves." -Robert Greene
"the personality we project to the world plays a substantial role in our success and in our ascension to mastery." -Robert Greene
"Knowing about your rival is critical. Use spies to gather valuable information that will keep you a step ahead. Better still: Play the spy yourself. In polite social encounters, learn to probe. Ask indirect questions to get people to reveal their weaknesses and intentions. There is no occasion that is not an opportunity for artful spying." -Robert Greene
"Right now, you are living off the fruits of millions of people in the past who have made your life incomparably easier through their strugglesand inventions. You have benefited from an education that embodies the wisdom of thousands of years of experience. It is so easy to take this all for granted, to imagine that it all just came about naturally and that you are entitled to have all of these powers. That is the view of spoiled children, and you must see any signs of such an attitude within you as shameful. This world needs constant improvement and renewal. You are here not merely to gratify your impulses and consume what others have made but to make and contribute as well, to serve a higher purpose." -Robert Greene
"The more skills you learn, the richer the landscape of the brain. It’s up to you." -Robert Greene
"Nunca pierda tiempo valioso, o su paz espiritual, en los asuntos de otras personas: hacerlo equivale a pagar un precio demasiado elevado." -Robert Greene
"وقد قال أنطون تشيخوف ذات مرة: «لا توحد المحبة الناس، ولا الصداقة، ولا الاحترام، بقدر ما توحدهم ضغينة مشتركة لشيء ما»." -Robert Greene
"Monopolies often turn inward and destroy themselves from the internal pressure." -Robert Greene
"La mayoría somos de- masiado  obvios; tú sé difícil de entender." -Robert Greene
"فجميعنا نرجسيون، وبعضنا موغل في النرجسية أكثر من غيره. ومهمتنا في هذه الحياة أن ننسجم مع حب النفس هذا، ونتعلم كيف نحوِّل حساسيتنا إلى خارج أنفسنا؛ إلى الآخرين؛ بدلًا من تركها داخلنا، وعلينا في الوقت نفسه أن نكتشف أصحاب النرجسية السامة بيننا قبل أن نؤخذ بمسرحياتهم، ونتسمم بحسدهم." -Robert Greene
"he was a consummate outsider and his mind had not been indoctrinated in any school of thought, he brought a fresh perspective to every problem he tackled. He turned his lack of formal direction into an advantage." -Robert Greene
"hola" -Robert Greene
"it is much more effective to create love than lust. A person in love is emotional, pliable, and easily misled. (The origin of the word 'seduction' is the Latin for 'to lead astray') A person in lust is harder to control and, once satisfied, may easily leave you." -Robert Greene
"If people were rational and morally superior, the world would be suffused with goodness and peace. We know, however, the reality, and so some people, perhaps all of us, are merely deceiving ourselves." -Robert Greene
"No pienses en por qué preguntas, simplemente no dejes de preguntar. No te preocupes por lo que no puedes responder, y no intentes explicar lo que no sabes. La curiosidad es su propia razón. ¿Acaso no te sobrecoge contemplar los misterios de la eternidad, de la vida, de la maravillosa estructura detrás de la realidad? Y éste es el milagro de la mente humana: usar sus construcciones, conceptos y fórmulas como instrumentos para explicar lo que el hombre ve, siente y toca. Intenta comprender un poco más cada día. Ten una curiosidad sagrada. –ALBERT EINSTEIN Mientras" -Robert Greene
"Let us call the collection of these forces that push and pull at us from deep within human nature. Human nature stems from the particular wiring of our brains, the configuration of our nervous system, and the way we humans process emotions, all of which developed and emerged over the course of the five million years or so of our evolution as a species." -Robert Greene
"Otros son capaces de actuar con seguridad y fanfarronería, y a menudo se convierten en líderes. Las personas con habilidades actorales consumadas pueden sortear mejor los complejos entornos sociales y salir adelante." -Robert Greene
"And you must convince yourself of the following: people get the mind and quality of brain that they deserve through their actions in life." -Robert Greene
"Practical knowledge is the ultimate commodity. Evaluate opportunities using one criterion: the greatest possibility for learning." -Robert Greene
"First, the Laws will work to transform you into a calmer and more strategic observer of people, helping to free you from all the emotional drama that needlessly drains you." -Robert Greene
"Conoce  a tu presa,  y  elígela con cuidado. No pier- das tiempo en la caza menor: los conejos que caen en la trampa, el visón preso en el cepo perfumado. Desafío es placer." -Robert Greene
"If your orders are vague and halfhearted, by the time they reach the field they will be meaningless. Let people work unsupervised and they will revert to their natural selfishness: they will see in your orders what they want to see, and their behavior will promote their own interests." -Robert Greene
"Tan pronto como te sientes contra mí, has dejado de comprender mi posición, ¡y por tanto mis argumentos! Tienes que ser víctima de la misma pasión'." -Robert Greene
"People who involve themselves completely in the immediate problem are intimidating; because they are focusing so intensely, they seem more powerful than they are." -Robert Greene
"The people around us, even our closest friends will always remain to some extent remain mysterious and unfathomable. Their characters have secret recesses that they never reveal. The unknowableness of other people could prove disturbing if we thought about it long enough since it would make it impossible for us really to judge other people, so we prefer to ignore this fact and to judge people on their appearances, on what is most visible to our eyes. Clothes gestures, words, actions. In the social realm, appearances are the barometer of almost all of our judgements, and you must never be mislead into believing otherwise. One false slip, or one awkward or sudden change in your appearance can prove disastrous. This is the reason for the supreme importance of making and maintaining a reputation that is of your own creation. That reputation will protect you in the dangerous game of appearances, distracting the probing eyes of others from knowing what you are really like, and giving you a degree of control over how the world judges you. A powerful position to be in." -Robert Greene
"Often we try too many things at one time, thinking that one of them will bring us success—but in these situations our minds are diffused, our efforts halfhearted. It is better to take on one daunting challenge, even one that others think foolish. Our future is at stake; we cannot afford to lose. So we don’t." -Robert Greene
"we continually consult our smartphones as a kind of substitute pair of eyes upon us." -Robert Greene
"We can see two forms of [contradictory behaviour]: Early on in life some people sense a softness, vulnerability, or insecurity that might prove embarrassing or uncomfortable. They unconsciously develop the opposite trait, a resilience or toughness that lies on the outside like a protective shell. The other scenario is that a person has a quality that they feel might be antisocial - for instance, too much ambition or an inclination to be selfish. They develop the opposite quality, something very prosocial." -Robert Greene
"What you want is a picture of a person’s character over time. Restrain from the natural tendency to judge right away, and let the passage of time reveal more and more about who people are." -Robert Greene
"The period after the inauguration became known as the 'Hundred Days,' and its success in altering the country’s mood partly stemmed from Roosevelt’s clever pacing and use of dramatic contrast." -Robert Greene
"The world is full of fools—people who cannot wait to get results, who change with the wind, who can’t see past their noses. You encounter them everywhere: the indecisive boss, the rash colleague, the hysterical subordinate. When working alongside fools, do not fight them. Instead think of them the way you think of children, or pets, not important enough to affect your mental balance. Detach yourself emotionally. And while you’re inwardly laughing at their foolishness, indulge them in one of their more harmless ideas. The ability to stay cheerful in the face of fools is an important skill." -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: Adapt your inclinations. Avoid having rigid goals and dreams. Change is the law. Mastery, I: Discover Your Calling—The Life’s Task" -Robert Greene
"And finally, we can include the rapidly expanding library of biographies now available, revealing human nature in depth and in action." -Robert Greene
"Power requires self-discipline. The prospect of wealth, particularly easy, sudden wealth, plays havoc with the emotions. The suddenly rich believe that more is always possible. The free lunch, the money that will fall into your lap, is just around the corner. In this delusion the greedy neglect everything power really depends on: self-control, the goodwill of others, and so on. Understand: With one exception—death—no lasting change in fortune comes quickly. Sudden wealth rarely lasts, for it is built on nothing solid. Never let lust for money lure you out of the protective and enduring fortress of real power. Make power your goal and money will find its way to you. Leave El Dorado for suckers and fools." -Robert Greene
"Los chinos tienen un proverbio: 'Cuando el Yang está en su fase ascendente, el Yin nace', lo que traducido a nuestro lenguaje quiere decir que cuando un hombre ha dedicado lo mejor de su vida a los asuntos ordinarios de la sobrevivencia, el Yin o lado emocional de su naturaleza sale a la superficie y reclama sus derechos. Cuando ocurre este periodo, todo lo que antes parecía importante pierde su significación." -Robert Greene
"one last question: 'You claim to understand astrology and to know the fate of others, so tell me what your fate will be and how long you have to live.' 'I shall die just three days before Your Majesty,' the astrologer replied. The king’s signal was never given." -Robert Greene
"But for most others who seem hard to figure out, we should see it as an excellent challenge and a way to improve our skills. As Abraham Lincoln said, 'I don’t like that man. I must get to know him better." -Robert Greene
"Let us call the collection of these forces that push and pull at us from deep within human nature." -Robert Greene
"The word personality comes from the Latin persona, which means 'mask.' In the public we all wear masks, and this has a positive function." -Robert Greene
"لكل شخص مخاوفه، وعندما تعرض نفسك في العالم وتكشف عن مواهبك فإن من الطبيعي أن تثير كل أنوع السخط، والحسد وغيرها من مظاهر انعدام الأمن. ويجب أن تتوقع ذلك. ولكنك لا تستطيع أن تقضي عمرك في القلق على مشاعر الآخرين الصغيرة. أما بالنسبة لمن هم فوقك فإن عليك ان تتبع نهجاً مختلفاً: فعندما يتعلق الأمر بالسلطة، فإن التفوق على السيد في الإشراق ربما كان أسوأ الغلطات على الإطلاق." -Robert Greene
"This military model is extremely adaptable to any group. It has one simple requirement: before formulating a strategy or taking action, understand the structure of your group. You can always change it and redesign it to fit your purposes." -Robert Greene
"Flannery felt another change from within: an increasing awareness of and disgust with the course of life and culture in America in the 1950s. She sensed that people were becoming more and more superficial, obsessed with material things and plagued by boredom, like children. They had become unmoored, soulless, disconnected from the past and from religion, flailing around without any higher sense of purpose. And at the core of these problems was their inability to face their own mortality and the seriousness of it." -Robert Greene
"Una vez motivada esa sensación, tu objetivo se preguntará por qué no has dado el paso, y tomará la iniciativa, disfrutando de la ilusión de que es quien está al mando. No hay nada más efectivo en la seducción que hacer creer seductor al seducido." -Robert Greene
"Third and most important, we must begin to make the transformation into the healthy narcissist. Healthy narcissists have a stronger, even more resilient sense of self." -Robert Greene
"You cannot make anything worthwhile in this world unless you have first developed and transformed yourself." -Robert Greene
"Finally, you must see your career or vocational path more as a journey with twists and turns rather than a straight line. You begin by choosing a field or position that roughly corresponds to your inclinations. This initial position offers you room to maneuver and important skills to learn. You don’t want to start with something too lofty, too ambitious—you need to make a living and establish some confidence. Once on this path you discover certain side routes that attract you, while other aspects of this field leave you cold. You adjust and perhaps move to a related field, continuing to learn more about yourself, but always expanding off your skill base. Like Leonardo, you take what you do for others and make it your own." -Robert Greene
"Do not accept the roles that society foists on you. Re-create yourself by forging a new identity, one that commands attention and never bores the audience. Be the master of your own image rather than letting others define if for you." -Robert Greene
"ill will" -Robert Greene
"Así como un día rebosante trae consigo dulces sueños, una vida bien empleada procura una muerte dulce'. CLAVES" -Robert Greene
"Those who are truly original and different do not need to make a great show of it." -Robert Greene
"Einstein began his serious thought experiments at the age of sixteen. Ten years later he came up with his first revolutionary theory of relativity. It is impossible to quantify the time he spent honing his theoretical skills in those ten years, but is not hard to imagine him working three hours a day on this particular problem, which would yield more than 10,000 hours after a decade." -Robert Greene
"As Pasteur himself commented, 'Chance favors only the prepared mind." -Robert Greene
"All working situations require a kind of distance between people. You are trying to work, not make friends; friendliness (real or false) only obscures that fact. The key to power, then, is the ability to judge who is best able to further your interests in all situations. Keep friends for friendship, but work with the skilled and competent." -Robert Greene
"Embrace Your Weirdness The most courageous act is still to think for yourself. —Coco Chanel" -Robert Greene
"The future of the human race will likely depend on our ability to transcend this tribalism and to see our fate as Interconnected with everyone else's. We are one species, all descendents of the same original humans, all brothers and sisters. Our differences are mostly an illusion. Imagining differences is part of the madness of groups. We must see ourselves as one large reality group and experience a deep sense of belonging to it. To solve the man-made problems threatening us will require cooperation on a much higher level and a practical spirit missing from the tribe. This does not mean the end of diverse cultures and the riches that comes with them. In fact, the reality group encourages inner diversity." -Robert Greene
"No days unalert.' Nothing should catch you by surprise because you are constantly imagining problems before they arise. Instead of spending your time dreaming of your plan’s happy ending, you must work on calculating every possible permutation and pitfall that might emerge in it. The further you see, the more steps ahead you plan, the more powerful you become." -Robert Greene
"and even if we live for another eighty years, it is but a drop in the ocean of the vastness of time, and it passes always more quickly than we imagine." -Robert Greene
"moving past our usual self-absorption, we can learn to focus deeply on others, reading their behavior in the moment, seeing what motivates them, and discerning any possible manipulative tendencies. Navigating" -Robert Greene
"Make people depend on you. More is to be gained from such dependence than courtesy. He who has slaked his thirst, immediately turns his back on the well, no longer needing it. When dependence disappears, so does civility and decency, and then respect." -Robert Greene
"I have always believed,' he later wrote, 'that when a man gets it into his head to do something, and when he exclusively occupies himself in that design, he must succeed, whatever the difficulties." -Robert Greene
"Mao's father had valued manual work over intellect; Mao had scoffed at this as a young man, but as he grew older he unconsciously returned to his father's views and echoed such outdated ideas by forcing a whole generation of Chinese intellectuals into manual labor, a nightmarish mistake that cost his regime dearly. Remember: You are your own father. Do not let yourself spend years creating yourself only to let your guard down and allow the ghost of the past — father, habit, history — to sneak back in." -Robert Greene
"اجعل أولئك الذين فوقك يشعرون دائماً بتفوقهم بشكل مريح. وفى رغبتك لإرضائهم وإثارة إعجابهم، لا تذهب أبعد من اللازم في إظهار مواهبك،" -Robert Greene
"the creative process requires continual intensity and vigor. Each exercise or problem or project is different. Hurrying to the end or warming up old ideas will ensure a mediocre result." -Robert Greene
"The greatest danger you face is your general assumption that you really understand people and that you can quickly judge them. Instead, you must begin with the assumption that you are ignorant and that you have natural biases that will make you judge people incorrectly. Each person you meet is like an undiscovered country, with a very particular psychological chemistry that you will carefully explore." -Robert Greene
"Everything that is rare is expensive: the more you are seen, the more you are heard, and the more ordinary you seem. If you are part of a group, step away for a while and you will be talked about more, and even admired more. Practice absence: scarcity will increase your value." -Robert Greene
"We humans can fool ourselves that we know just about everything, but at this threshold we are finally left dumb and groping. This confrontation with something we cannot know or verbalize is what we shall call the Sublime, whose Latin root means 'up to the threshold.' The Sublime is anything that exceeds our capacity for words or concepts by being too large, too vast, too dark and mysterious. And when we face such things, we feel a touch of fear but also awe and wonder. We are reminded of our smallness, of what is much vaster and more powerful than our puny will. Feeling the Sublime is the perfect antidote to our complacency and to the petty concerns of daily life that can consume us and leave us feeling rather empty." -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: You were obsessed with it as a child for a reason. Reconnect with it. Mastery, I: Discover Your Calling—The Life’s Task" -Robert Greene
"If you never expect gratitude from a friend, you will be pleasantly surprised when they do prove grateful." -Robert Greene
"Our levels of desire, patience, persistence, and confidence end up playing a much larger role in success than sheer reasoning powers. Feeling motivated and energized, we can overcome almost anything. Feeling bored and restless, our minds shut off and we become increasingly passive." -Robert Greene
"Look at things as they are, not as your emotions color them." -Robert Greene
"Let us rid death of its strangeness, come to know it, get used to it. Let us have nothing on our minds as often as death. At every moment let us picture it in our imagination in all its aspects. . . . It is uncertain where death awaits us; let us await it everywhere. Premeditation of death is premeditation of freedom. . . . He who has learned how to die has unlearned how to be a slave. Knowing how to die frees us from all subjection and constraint." -Robert Greene
"It is a wise thing to be polite; consequently, it is a stupid thing to be rude. To make enemies by unnecessary and wilful incivility, is just as insane a proceeding as to set your house on fire. For politeness is like a counter—an avowedly false coin, with which it is foolish to be stingy. A sensible man will be generous in the use of it.... Wax, a substance naturally hard and brittle, can be made soft by the application of a little warmth, so that it will take any shape you please. In the same way, by being polite and friendly, you can make people pliable and obliging, even though they are apt to be crabbed and malevolent. Hence politeness is to human nature what warmth is to wax." -Robert Greene
"Master the Small Things" -Robert Greene
"You will see the signs of this shadow leaking out in everyday life. If people take an action that seems out of character, you will take note: what often appears out of character is actually more of their true character." -Robert Greene
"LAW 20 DO NOT COMMIT TO ANYONE" -Robert Greene
"what matters is not education or money, but your persistence and the intensity of your desire to learn; that failures, mistakes, and conflicts are often the best education of all; and how true creativity and mastery emerge from all this." -Robert Greene
"Жил-был Лис, который никогда в жизни не видел Льва. Но вот однажды случилось ему встретиться со Львом лицом к лицу. При этой первой встрече несчастный Лис был так напуган, что чуть было не умер от ужаса. Потом они встретились еще раз, и Лис тоже испугался, хотя и не столь сильно, как в первый раз. Но когда довелось им повстречаться и в третий раз, Лису хватило храбрости подойти ко Льву поближе и заговорить с ним. Мораль этой басни в том, что привычка побеждает страх. Эзоп «Басни» (VI в. до н. э.)" -Robert Greene
"Men are more ready to repay an injury than a benefit, because gratitude is a burden and revenge a pleasure. —Tacitus" -Robert Greene
"In the past, only elites or those with an almost superhuman amount of energy and drive could pursue a career of their choice and master it. A man was born into the military, or groomed for the government, chosen among those of the right class. If he happened to display a talent and desire for such work it was mostly a coincidence. Millions of people who were not part of the right social class, gender, and ethnic group were rigidly excluded from the possibility of pursuing their calling. Even if people wanted to follow their inclinations, access to the information and knowledge pertaining to that particular field was controlled by elites. That is why there are relatively few Masters in the past and why they stand out so much." -Robert Greene
"It is hard for us to imagine now, but our earliest human ancestors who ventured out onto the grasslands of East Africa some six million years ago were remarkably weak and vulnerable creatures. They stood less than five feet tall. They walked upright and could run on their two legs, but nowhere near as fast as the swift predators on four legs that pursued them. They were skinny—their arms could not provide much defense. They had no claws or fangs or poison to resort to if under attack. To gather fruits, nuts, and insects, or to scavenge dead meat, they had to move out into the open savanna where they became easy prey to leopards or packs of hyenas. So weak and small in number, they might have easily become extinct.And yet within the space of a few million years (remarkably short on the time scale of evolution), these rather physically unimpressive ancestors of ours transformed themselves into the most formidable hunters on the planet. What could possibly account for such a miraculous turnaround?" -Robert Greene
"human tongue is a beast that few can master." -Robert Greene
"Time is an artificial concept that we ourselves have created to make the limitlessness of eternity and the universe more bearable, more human." -Robert Greene
"Understand: the greatest impediment to creativity is your impatience, the almost inevitable desire to hurry up the process, express something, and make a splash." -Robert Greene
"To think that by doing more you are doing better is a common blunder. It is never good to seem to be trying too hard—it is as if you were covering up some deficiency." -Robert Greene
"A man is often secretly oppressed by the role he has to play—by always having to be responsible, in control, and rational. The Siren is the ultimate male fantasy figure because she offers a total release from the limitations of his life. In her presence, which is always heightened and sexually charged, the male feels transported to a world of pure pleasure. She is dangerous, and in pursuing her energetically the man can lose control over himself, something he yearns to do. The Siren is a mirage; she lures men by cultivating a particular appearance and manner." -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: Are there people whose work affects you in a powerful way? Analyze this and use them as models. Mastery, I: Discover Your Calling—The Life’s Task" -Robert Greene
"Si tienes una cara dulce y un aire inocente, emite indicios de algo oscuro, e incluso vagamente cruel, en tu carácter." -Robert Greene
"Combine Your Fascinations" -Robert Greene
"The best strategy is always to be very strong first in general, then at the decisive point.... There is no higher and simpler law of strategy than that of keeping one’s forces concentrated.... In short the first principle is: act with the utmost concentration. On War, Carl von Clausewitz, 1780-1831" -Robert Greene
"El hecho de que una persona ejerza tan profundo efecto en ti transforma todas tus maniobras posteriores. Tu intenso deseo contagiará a tu objetivo, y le brindará la peligrosa sensación de tener poder sobre ti." -Robert Greene
"Keep people off-balance and in the dark by never revealing the purpose behind your actions. If they have no clue what you are up to, they cannot prepare a defense. Guide them far enough down the wrong path, envelop them in enough smoke, and by the time they realize your intentions, it will be too late." -Robert Greene
"It is the height of stupidity to believe that in the course of your short life, your few decades of consciousness, you can somehow rewire the configurations of your brain through technology and wishful thinking, overcoming the effect of six million years of development." -Robert Greene
"Never waste valuable time, or mental peace of mind, on the affairs of others, that is too high a price to pay." -Robert Greene
"The Laws of Human Nature, 17: Seize the Historical Moment—The Law of Generational Myopia" -Robert Greene
"what separates humans from animals is our ability to lie and deceive." -Robert Greene
"Rid yourself of the desire to find shortcuts" -Robert Greene
"Napoleón: cubrir tu mano de hierro con un guante de terciopelo." -Robert Greene
"Como la vida adulta es aburrida y acomodaticia, nos creamos la ilusión de que la infancia es una especie de edad de oro," -Robert Greene
"Our greatest weakness is losing heart, doubting ourselves, becoming unnecessarily cautious. Being more careful is not what we need; that is just a screen for our fear of conflict and of making a mistake." -Robert Greene
"On the other hand, there is the opposing tendency of the brain to want to make connections between everything. This generally occurs among individuals who pursue knowledge far enough that these associations come to" -Robert Greene
"To learn requires a sense of humility. We must admit that there are people out there who know our field much more deeply than we do. Their superiority is not a function of natural talent or privilege, but rather of time and experience. Their authority in the field is not based on politics or trickery. It is very real." -Robert Greene
"Las mujeres [narcisistas] son las que más fascinan a los hombres." -Robert Greene
"Actually, your past successes are your biggest obstacle: every battle, every war, is different, and you cannot assume that what worked before will work today. You must cut yourself loose from the past and open your eyes to the present. Your tendency to fight the last war may lead to your final war." -Robert Greene
"Rationality is something to be acquired by individuals, not by mass movements or technological progress. Feeling superior and beyond it is a sure sign that the irrational is at work." -Robert Greene
"A man suddenly spared the guillotine is a grateful man indeed, and will go to the ends of the earth for the man who has pardoned him." -Robert Greene
"Y la mejor manera de encontrar las debilidades del jefe no es por medio de espías, sino de un fuerte abrazo. Detras de una fachada amigable, aun servil, puedes observar a tus enemigos, lograr que se sinceren y delaten. Llega a lo más hondo; piensa como ellos. Una vez que descubras su vulnerabilidad —" -Robert Greene
"Finally, you must learn always to" -Robert Greene
"La vida es batalla y contienda, y tú enfrentarás constantemente situaciones desagradables, relaciones destructivas y compromisos riesgosos. La forma en que encares estas dificultades determinará tu destino." -Robert Greene
"In the future, the great division will be between those who have trained themselves to handle these complexities and those who are overwhelmed by them—those who can acquire skills and discipline their minds and those who are irrevocably distracted by all the media around them and can never focus enough to learn. The Apprenticeship Phase is more relevant and important than ever, and those who discount this notion will almost certainly be left behind." -Robert Greene
"We forget the role that luck may have played in the success, or the contributions of others." -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: When in doubt, focus on the things you know you do well. Expand outward from the center. Mastery, I: Discover Your Calling—The Life’s Task" -Robert Greene
"Never associate with those who share your defects—they will reinforce everything that holds you back." -Robert Greene
"As long as the partial disclosure of tricks and techniques is carefully planned, rather than the result of an uncontrollable need to blab, it is the ultimate in cleverness. It gives the audience the illusion of being superior and involved, even while much of what you do remains concealed from them." -Robert Greene
"The past often has elements worth appropriating, qualities that would be foolish to reject out of a need to distinguish yourself.... Making a display of doing things differently from your predecessor can make you seem childish and in fact out of control, unless your actions have a logic of their own." -Robert Greene
"Everyone holds his fortune in his own hands," -Robert Greene
"Only the weak rest on their laurels and dote on past triumphs; in the game of power there is never time to rest." -Robert Greene
"We have seen that it can be better to surrender than to fight; faced with a more powerful opponent and a sure defeat, it is often also better to surrender than to run away. Running away may save you for the time being, but the aggressor will eventually catch up with you. If you surrender instead, you have an opportunity to coil around your enemy and strike with your fangs from close up." -Robert Greene
"No pienses que lo que se te dificulta es humanamente imposible; y si es humanamente posible, considéralo a tu alcance. –MARCO AURELIO A" -Robert Greene
"Mentors do not give you a shortcut, but they streamline the process. They invariably had their own great mentors, giving them a richer and deeper knowledge of their field." -Robert Greene
"To go along with this self-control, we must do whatever we can to cultivate a greater memory capacity—one of the most important skills in our technologically oriented environment." -Robert Greene
"In his own time Simon Thomas was a great doctor. I remember that I happened to meet him one day at the home of a rich old consumptive: He told his patient when discussing ways to cure him that one means was to provide occasions for me to enjoy his company: He could then fix his eyes on the freshness of my countenance and his thoughts on the overflowing cheerfulness and vigor of my young manhood; by filling all his senses with the flower of my youth his condition might improve. He forgot to add that mine might get worse. MONTAIGNE, 1533-1592" -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: Contemplate any feelings of uncertainty and even discomfort and hold fast to them. Amid such uncertainty your dormant sense of wonder will begin to stir, and things will start to appear novel and surprising as they did when you were very young." -Robert Greene
"The recurrence of this mirrors the recurrence in our own lives of the same problems and mistakes, forming negative patterns. It is hard to learn from experience" -Robert Greene
"you must think of three essential steps in your apprenticeship, each one overlapping the other. These steps are: Deep Observation (The Passive Mode), Skills Acquisition (The Practice Mode), and Experimentation (The Active Mode)." -Robert Greene
"كأن تظهر اهتمامك برجل آخر أو امرأة أخرى (الطريدة الوهمية) ثم تلمِّح إلى اهتمامك بالطريدة المستهدفة، ثم تتظاهر بعدم المبالاة وتستمر في ذلك رويدًا رويدًا. ذلك أن مثل هذه الأنماط لا تؤدي إلى الحيرة فحسب، بل وإلى الاستثارة كذلك." -Robert Greene
"When your own reputation is solid, use subtler tactics, such as satire and ridicule, to weaken your opponent while making you out as a charming rogue." -Robert Greene
"Although we might enter these situations with excitement about what we can learn or do with our new skills, we quickly realize how much hard work there is ahead of us. The great danger is that we give in to feelings of boredom, impatience, fear, and confusion. We stop observing and learning. The process comes to a halt." -Robert Greene
"Jackson used this tactic time and again when facing numerically superior forces. 'Always mystify, mislead, and surprise the enemy, if possible,' he said, '... such tactics will win every time and a small army may thus destroy a large one.' This law applies not only to war but to everyday situations. People are always trying to read the motives behind your actions and to use your predictability against you. Throw in a completely inexplicable move and you put them on the defensive. Because they do not understand you, they are unnerved, and in such a state you can easily intimidate them. Pablo Picasso once remarked, 'The best calculation is the absence of calculation. Once you have attained a certain level of recognition, others generally figure that when you do something, it’s for an intelligent reason. So it’s really foolish to plot out your movements too carefully in advance. You’re better off acting capriciously." -Robert Greene
"You may feel you are helping the drowning man but you are only precipitating your own disaster." -Robert Greene
"People trying to make a show of their authority are easily deceived by the surrender tactic. Your outward sign of submission makes them feel important; satisfied that you respect them, they become easier targets for a later counterattack, or for the kind of indirect ridicule used by Brecht. Measuring your power over time, never sacrifice long-term maneuverability for the short-lived glories of martyrdom." -Robert Greene
"Recuerda mantener distancia emocional y física. Esto te permitirá llorar y reír a voluntad, y proyectar autosuficiencia; y con tal desapego, podrás jugar con las emociones de la gente como si tocaras un piano." -Robert Greene
"If the event was a major crisis of some sort, that will tend to make those of your generation band together for comfort and security, valuing the team and feelings of love, and allergic to confrontation. A period of stability and non-events will make you gravitate toward others for adventure, for group experimentation, sometimes bordering on the reckless." -Robert Greene
"the pencil in Sullivan’s hand." -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: Always stick to what makes you weird, odd, strange, different. That’s your source of power. Podcast Interview. Curious with Josh Peck. December 4, 2018" -Robert Greene
"Any man who tries to be good all the time is bound to come to ruin among the great number who are not good. Hence a prince who wants to keep his authority must learn how not to be good, and use that knowledge, or refrain from using it, as necessity requires. THE PRINCE, Niccolò Machiavelli, 1469-1527 LAW 1 NEVER OUTSHINE THE MASTER JUDGMENT Always make those above you feel comfortably superior." -Robert Greene
"¿existe una fuerza interior que hace que todos los seres vivos crezcan y se transformen?" -Robert Greene
"To set himself apart from these dreamers, he created a strategy of forging what he called 'artifacts.' Working off his ideas, which were sometimes quite wild, he would make models of things he imagined, and if they seemed at all feasible, he would proceed to invent prototypes of them. By actually translating his ideas into tangible objects, he could gain a sense of whether they were potentially interesting or merely ridiculous. Now his seemingly outlandish ideas were no longer speculations, but realities. He would then take his prototypes to another level, constructing artifacts for the public to see how they would respond." -Robert Greene
"If you want to make people with low self esteem feel better about themselves, praise has a superficial effect. Instead prod them into accomplishing something tangible, giving them a real experience. That will translate into a much deeper feeling of confidence." -Robert Greene
"Las vícti- mas correctas son aquellas en las que puedes llenar un vacío, las que ven en ti algo exótico. A menudo están aisladas o son al menos un tanto infelices (a causa tal vez de recientes circunstancias adversas), o se les puede llevar  con facilidad  a ese punto,  porque la persona total- mente satisfecha es casi imposible de seducir." -Robert Greene
"In any competitive environment in which there are winners or losers, the person who has the wider, more global perspective will inevitably prevail. The reason is simple: such a person will be able to think beyond the moment and control the overall dynamic through careful strategizing." -Robert Greene
"el azar sólo favorece a la mente preparada'." -Robert Greene
"Un verso [de un poema] quizá pueda llevarnos horas; pero si no parece una inspiración del momento, todo el trabajo habrá sido en vano. LA MALDICIÓN DE ADÁN, WILLIAM BUTLER YEATS, 1865-1939" -Robert Greene
"We are all permeable to the influence of the group. What makes us more permeable is our insecurities. The less we are certain about our self-worth as individuals, the more we are unconsciously drawn toward fitting in and blending ourselves into the group spirit. Gaining the superficial approval of group members by displaying our conformity, we cover up our insecurities to ourselves and to others. But this approval is fleeting; our insecurities gnaw at us, and we must continually get people’s attention to feel validated. Your goal must be to lower your permeability by raising your self-esteem. If you feel strong and confident about what makes you unique—your tastes, your values, your own experience—you can more easily resist the group effect. Furthermore, by relying upon your work and accomplishments to anchor your self-opinion, you won’t be so tied to constantly seeking approval and attention." -Robert Greene
"Value Learning above Everything Else As you progress in life, you will become addicted to the fat paycheck and it will determine where you go, how you think, and what you do. Eventually, the time that was not spent on learning skills will catch up with you, and the fall will be painful. Instead, you must value learning above everything else. This will lead you to all of the right choices. You will opt for the situation that will give you the most opportunities to learn, particularly with hands-on work. You will choose a place that has people and mentors who can inspire and teach you. A job with mediocre pay has the added benefit of training you to get by with less—a valuable life skill. You must never disdain an apprenticeship with no pay. In fact, it is often the height of wisdom to find the perfect mentor and offer your services as an assistant for free. Happy to exploit your cheap and eager spirit, such mentors will often divulge more than the usual trade secrets. In the end, by valuing learning above all else, you will set the stage for your creative expansion, and the money will soon come to you." -Robert Greene
"Si tropiezas con un rasgo especial de maldad o estupidez, […] no permitas que te enfade o te perturbe; velo como una adición a tu conocimiento, un dato nuevo a tomar en cuenta en el estudio del carácter de la humanidad. Tu actitud será la del mineralogista que tropieza con un muy peculiar espécimen de un mineral. —ARTHUR SCHOPENHAUER" -Robert Greene
"The lesson is simple: do not confuse a chummy, clublike atmosphere with team spirit and cohesion. Coddling your soldiers and acting as if everyone were equal will ruin discipline and promote the creation of factions. Victory will forge stronger bonds than superficial friendliness, and victory comes from discipline, training, and ruthlessly high standards." -Robert Greene
"Tú pasas a ser entonces apenas una cosa más que clama atención; tu atractivo se acabará a menos que actives una clase de hechizo más durarero que haga que la gente piense en ti en tu ausencia. Esto significa cautivar su imaginación, haciéndole creer que en ti hay más de lo que ve. Una vez que la gente empiece a adornar tu imagen con sus fantasías, estará atrapada." -Robert Greene
"It is impossible to not have our inclinations and feelings somehow involved in what we think. Rational people are aware of this and through introspection and effort are able, to some extent, to subtract emotions from their thinking and counteract their effect. Irrational people have no such awareness. They rush into action without carefully considering the ramifications and consequences." -Robert Greene
"If it is money and comfort that dominate our decision, we are most often acting out of anxiety and the need to please our parents. They may steer us toward something lucrative out of care and concern, but lurking underneath this can be something else—perhaps a bit of envy that we have more freedom than they had when they were young. Your strategy must be twofold: First, to realize as early as possible that you have chosen your career for the wrong reasons, before your confidence takes a hit. And second, to actively rebel against those forces that have pushed you away from your true path. Scoff at the need for attention and approval—they will lead you astray. Feel some anger and resentment at the parental forces that want to foist upon you an alien vocation. It is a healthy part of your development to follow a path independent of your parents and to establish your own identity. Let your sense of rebellion fill you with energy and purpose. Daily Law: If you’re on the false path, get off. Find energy in rebellion." -Robert Greene
"more than anything it is social media that spreads the grandiosity virus. Through social media we have almost limitless powers to expand our presence, to create the illusion that we have the attention and even adoration of thousands or millions of people." -Robert Greene
"In all cases, the degree of awareness represents the difference. Rational people can readily admit their own irrational tendencies and the need to be vigilant. On the other hand, irrational people become highly emotional when challenged about the emotional roots of their decisions. They are incapable of introspection and learning. Their mistakes make them increasingly defensive." -Robert Greene
"that we are far more mysterious, complex, and interesting than we had imagined." -Robert Greene
"We humans live in two worlds. First, there is the outer world of appearances—all of the forms of things that captivate our eye. But hidden from our view is another world—how these things actually function, their anatomy or composition, the parts working together and forming the whole. This second world is not so immediately captivating. It is harder to understand. It is not something visible to the eye, but only to the mind that glimpses the reality." -Robert Greene
"Your eye is on the future, not the past. Often such creative readjustments lead to a superior path for us—we are shaken out of our complacency and forced to reassess where we are headed." -Robert Greene
"Image: A Virus. Unseen, it enters your pores without warning, spreading silently and slowly. Before you are aware of the infection, it is deep inside you." -Robert Greene
"People’s choice of spouse or partner says a lot about them." -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: If you’re on the false path, get off. Find energy in rebellion. Mastery, I: Discover Your Calling—The Life’s Task" -Robert Greene
"In truth, the use of honesty is indeed a power strategy, intended to convince people of one’s noble, good-hearted, selfless character. It is a form of persuasion, even a subtle form of coercion." -Robert Greene
"And as with Louis, he will not admit the truth, but will find an excuse to rid himself of your presence." -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: Look at the sky and stars as if seeing them for the first time. Law of the Sublime, 1: Expand the Mind to Its Furthest Reaches—The Cosmic Sublime" -Robert Greene
"Those who make assumptions from far away, based on universal theories, do not see the whole picture. It takes great time and effort to see the differences, to participate in a culture. And because it is much harder to percieve these differences, culture has not been given its due as one of the primary shaping forces for language and for how we experience the world." -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: Embrace negative experiences. When was the last time you failed, felt embarrassed, got criticized? What were you doing? What did the experience teach you? The Laws of Human Nature, 13: Advance with a Sense of Purpose—The Law of Aimlessness" -Robert Greene
"(The origin of the word 'seduction' is the Latin for 'to lead astray.')" -Robert Greene
"They come to accept things that are made cheaply and quickly. The idea that they might have to expend much effort to get what they want has been eroded by the proliferation of devices that do so much of the work for them, fostering the idea that they deserve all of this—that it is their inherent right to have and to consume what they want." -Robert Greene
"Since honesty rarely strengthens friendship, you may never know how a friend truly feels. Friends will say that they love your poetry, adore your music, envy your taste in clothes—maybe they mean it, often they do not." -Robert Greene
"Masters manage to blend the two—discipline and a childlike spirit—together into what we shall call the Dimensional Mind. Such a mind is not constricted by limited experience or habits. It can branch out into all directions and make deep contact with reality. It can explore more dimensions of the world." -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: As Xenophon said, your obstacles are not rivers or mountains or other people; your obstacle is yourself. The 33 Strategies of War, Strategy 1: Declare War on Your Enemies—The Polarity Strategy" -Robert Greene
"When people are free to do as they please, they usually imitate each other. —Eric Hoffer" -Robert Greene
"KEYS TO POWER Everyone has insecurities. When you show yourself in the world and display your talents, you naturally stir up all kinds of resentment, envy, and other manifestations of insecurity. This is to be expected. You cannot spend your life worrying about the petty feelings of others. With those above you, however, you must take a different approach: When it comes to power, outshining the master is perhaps the worst mistake of all." -Robert Greene
"Knowledge, experience, and theory have limitations: no amount of thinking in advance can prepare you for the chaos of life, for the infinite possibilities of the moment." -Robert Greene
"The best route is to follow Coltrane and to love learning for its own sake. Anyone who would spend ten years absorbing the techniques and conventions of their field, trying them out, mastering them, exploring and personalizing them, would inevitably find their authentic voice and give birth to something unique and expressive." -Robert Greene
"People rarely believe that their problems arise from their own misdeeds and stupidity. Someone or something out there is to blame—the other, the world, the gods—and so salvation comes from the outside as well." -Robert Greene
"But it would be wise to practice instead the opposite, what the philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche called Mitfreude—'joying with.' As he wrote, 'The serpent that stings us means to hurt us and rejoices as it does so; the lowest animal can imagine the pain of others. But to imagine the joy of others and to rejoice at it is the highest privilege of the highest animals." -Robert Greene
"Never lose sight of your long-term goals. With an elevated perspective, you will have the patience and clarity to reach almost any objective." -Robert Greene
"the source of their success (the various power players in history) could almost always be traced to one single skill or unique quality that separated them form the others." -Robert Greene
"Those misfortunates among us who have been brought down by circumstances beyond their control deserve all the help and sympathy we can give them. But there are others who are not born to misfortune or unhappiness, but who draw it upon themselves by their destructive actions and unsettling effect on others. It would be a great thing if we could raise them up, change their patterns, but more often than not it is their patterns that end up getting inside and changing us." -Robert Greene
"The root of the Latin word for envy, invidia, means 'to look through, to probe with the eyes like a dagger." -Robert Greene
"you must let go of your need for comfort and security. Creative endeavors are by their nature uncertain. You may know your task, but you are never exactly sure where your efforts will lead. If you need everything in your life to be simple and safe, this open-ended nature of the task will fill you with anxiety. If you are worried about what others might think and about how your position in the group might be jeopardized, then you will never really create anything. You will unconsciously tether your mind to certain conventions, and your ideas will grow stale and flat." -Robert Greene
"فالغالب على الناس في حياتهم اليومية، إخفاء عيوب طباعهم إخفاءً جيدًا؛ لكن في أوقات الشدة والأزمات تغدو تلك العيوب واضحة كل الوضوح؛ فالإنسان تحت الضغط، يفقد ما عنده من ضبط طبيعي للنفس،" -Robert Greene
"Brecht, on the other hand, who had actually worked steadfastly for the Communist cause, played the opposite game: He answered questions with ambiguous generalities that defied easy interpretation. Call it the Campanella strategy. Brecht even wore a suit—a rare event for him-and made a point of smoking a cigar during the proceedings, knowing that a key committee member had a passion for cigars. In the end he charmed the committee members, who let him go scot-free." -Robert Greene
"Feeling personally vulnerable and seeing the vulnerability of everyone else, peoples normal sense of difference and privilege is melted away, and an uncommon generalized empathy emerges. This could be a natural state of mind, if we could only envision the vulnerability and mortality of others as not separate from our own.The more we can create this visceral connection to people through our common mortality, the better we are able to handle human nature in all its varieties with tolerance and grace. This does not mean we lose our alertness to those who are dangerous and difficult. In fact, seeing the mortality and vulnerability and even the nastiest individual can help us cut them down to size and deal with them from a more neutral and strategic space, not taking their nastiness personally." -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: Rationality is something to be acquired by individuals, not by mass movements or technological progress. Feeling superior and beyond it is a sure sign that the irrational is at work. The Laws of Human Nature, 1: Master Your Emotional Self—The Law of Irrationality" -Robert Greene
"We all have limitations—our energies and skills will take us only so far. Danger comes from trying to surpass our limits." -Robert Greene
"Muéstrate abierto a la influencia de los demás, y caerán más fácilmente bajo tu hechizo." -Robert Greene
"irrational people become highly emotional when challenged about the emotional roots of their decisions. They are incapable of introspection and learning. Their mistakes make them increasingly defensive." -Robert Greene
"There are no principles; there are only events. There is no good and bad, there are only" -Robert Greene
"Rising Pressure The people around you generally appear sane and in control of their lives. But put any of them in stressful circumstances, with the pressure rising, and you will see a different reality. The cool mask of self-control comes off. They suddenly lash out in anger, reveal a paranoid streak, and become hypersensitive and often petty." -Robert Greene
"People with consummate acting skills can better navigate our complex social environments and get ahead." -Robert Greene
"When I have laid bait for deer, I don’t shoot at the first doe that comes to sniff, but wait until the whole herd has gathered round. Otto von Bismarck, 1815-1898" -Robert Greene
"ولهذا القانون صلة بالملوك والملكات، وذوي السلطة العليا: ففي اللحظة التي تفقد فيها الاتصال بشعبك، وتبحث عن الأمن في العزلة يكون التمرد آخذاً في الاختمار. فلا تتصوَّر نفسك أبداً من السموّ بحيث يمكنك أن تقطع نفسك حتى عن أخفض المراتب. فبالتراجع إلى قلعة تجعل نفسك هدفاً سهلاً لرعاياك المتآمرين، الذين يعتبرون انعزالك إهانة لهم، وسبباً للعصيان." -Robert Greene
"Finally, when it comes to your own self-opinion, try to have some ironic distance from it. Make yourself aware of its existence and how it operates within you. Come to terms with the fact that you are not as free and autonomous as you like to believe. You do conform to the opinions of the groups you belong to; you do buy products because of subliminal influence; you can be manipulated. Realize as well that you are not as good as the idealized image of your self-opinion. Like everyone else, you can be quite self-absorbed and obsessed with your own agenda. With this awareness, you will not feel the need to be validated by others. Instead you will work at making yourself truly independent and concerned with the welfare of others, as opposed to staying attached to the illusion of your self-opinion." -Robert Greene
"The higher the rank, the greater the effect of the example. The men tend to feel no kind of contact with a commander who, they know, is sitting somewhere in headquarters. What they want is what might be termed a physical contact with him." -Robert Greene
"Alfonso I of Aragon once had a servant who told the king that the night before he had had a dream: Alfonso had given him a gift of weapons, horses, and clothes. Alfonso, a generous, lordly man, decided it would be amusing to make this dream come true, and promptly gave the servant exactly these gifts. A little while later, the same servant announced to Alfonso that he had had yet another dream, and in this one Alfonso had given him a considerable pile of gold florins. The king smiled and said, 'Don’t believe in dreams from now on; they lie." -Robert Greene
"When people seem to share your ideas exactly, be wary: they are probably mirroring them to charm you." -Robert Greene
"Your honesty is likely to offend people; it is much more prudent to tailor your words, telling people what they want to hear rather than the coarse and ugly truth of what you feel or think. More important, by being unabashedly open you make yourself so predictable and familiar that it is almost impossible to respect" -Robert Greene
"Você precisa adaptar a sua Missão de Vida às novas circunstâncias. Não insista nas formas ultrapassadas de fazer as coisas, ou correrá o risco de ficar para trás, sofrendo as consequências. É preciso ser flexível e se adaptar o tempo todo. Se a mudança lhe for imposta, como aconteceu com Freddie Roach, você deve resistir à tentação de se exaltar ou de sentir pena de si mesmo." -Robert Greene
"By nature, we humans shrink from anything that seems possibly painful or overtly difficult. We bring this natural tendency to our practice of any skill. Once we grow adept at some aspect of this skill, generally one that comes more easily to us, we prefer to practice this element over and over. Our skill becomes lopsided as we avoid our weaknesses. Knowing that in our practice we can let down our guard, since we are not being watched or under pressure to perform, we bring to this a kind of dispersed attention. We tend to also be quite conventional in our practice routines. We generally follow what others have done, performing the accepted exercises for these skills." -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: Put your faith in learning, not technology." -Robert Greene
"Consider yourself a kind of archaeologist digging into your own past and that of your generation, looking for artifacts, for observations that you can piece together to form a picture of the underlying spirit. When you examine your memories, try to do so with some distance, even when you recall the emotions you felt at the time. Catch yourself in the inevitable process of making judgments of good and bad about your generation or the next one, and let go of them. You can develop such a skill through practice. Forging such an attitude will play a key role in your development." -Robert Greene
"Anyway, he didn’t care so much about the finished product; it was the search and process in creating something that had always excited him." -Robert Greene
"Doubt is a powerful weapon: Once you let it out of the bag with insidious rumors, your opponents are in a horrible dilemma." -Robert Greene
"Rather than flattering Louis XIV, Fouquet’s elaborate party offended the king’s vanity. Louis would not admit this to anyone, of course—instead, he found a convenient excuse to rid himself of a man who had inadvertently made him feel insecure. Such is the fate, in some form or other, of all those who unbalance the master’s sense of self, poke holes in his vanity, or make him doubt his pre-eminence." -Robert Greene
"People who cling to their delusions find it difficult, if not impossible, to learn anything worth learning: A people under the necessity of creating themselves must examine everything, and soak up learning the way the roots of a tree soak up water. —James Baldwin" -Robert Greene
"The feeling that we have endless time to complete our work has an insidious and debilitating effect on our minds." -Robert Greene
"explore, entertain, and embrace new ideas." -Robert Greene
"Still, the intensive form of power provides more freedom than the extensive, because those who have it depend on no particular master, or particular position of power, for their security." -Robert Greene
"To separate yourself from the mechanical and reactive types, you need to get rid of a common misconception: the essence of strategy is not to carry out a brilliant plan that proceeds in steps; it is to put yourself in situations where you have more options than the enemy does." -Robert Greene
"We can explain this pattern in the following way: If we remained as excited as we were in the beginning of our project, maintaining that intuitive feel that sparked it all, we would never be able to take the necessary distance to look at our work objectively and improve upon it. Losing that initial verve causes us to work and rework the idea. It forces us to not settle too early on an easy solution. The mounting frustration and tightness that comes from single-minded devotion to one problem or idea will naturally lead to a breaking point. We realize we are getting nowhere. Such moments are signals from the brain to let go, for however long a period necessary, and most creative people consciously or unconsciously accept this. Daily Law: Walk away when you’re blocked. Do something else. The brain will eventually lead you back. Mastery, V: Awaken the Dimensional Mind—The Creative-Active" -Robert Greene
"En la vida diaria todo es prisa e improvisación, y tú debes ofrecer algo diferente. Si te tomas tu tiempo y respetas el proceso de la seducción, no sólo quebrarás la resistencia de tu víctima, sino que también la enamorarás." -Robert Greene
"Truly creative people in all fields can temporarily suspend their ego and simply experience what they are seeing, without the need to assert a judgment, for as long as possible. They are more than ready to find their most cherished opinions contradicted by reality." -Robert Greene
"A sovereign should never launch an army out of anger, a leader should never start a war out of wrath. —Sun Tzu" -Robert Greene
"These types, for example, will often display their weakness and lack of power as a kind of moral virtue. But true powerlessness, without any motive of self-interest, would not publicize its weakness to gain sympathy or respect. Making a show of one’s weakness is actually a very effective strategy, subtle and deceptive, in the game of power" -Robert Greene
"Tienes la responsabilidad de contribuir a la cultura y la época en que vives. En este momento te beneficias de los frutos de millones de personas del pasado que hicieron tu vida incomparablemente más fácil gracias a sus esfuerzos e inventos. Te has beneficiado de una educación que incorpora la sabiduría de miles de años de experiencia. Es fácil dar todo eso por descontado, imaginar que todo aconteció naturalmente y que tienes derecho a todas esas facultades. Ésta es la visión de los niños mimados, y debes considerar cualquier señal de esa actitud en ti como vergonzosa. Este mundo requiere una mejora y renovación constantes. Estás aquí no para gratificar tus impulsos y consumir lo que otros han hecho, sino" -Robert Greene
"We then come to have powers that approximate the instinctive force and speed of animals, but with the added reach that our human consciousness brings us." -Robert Greene
"To negate the ego you must adopt a kind of humility toward knowledge." -Robert Greene
"Yet another way of avoiding the game would be perfect honesty and straightforwardness, since one of the main techniques of those who seek power is deceit and secrecy. But being perfectly honest will inevitably hurt and insult a great many people, some of whom will choose to injure you in return. No one will see your honest statement as completely objective and free of some personal motivation. And they will be right: In truth, the use of honesty is indeed a power strategy, intended to convince people of one’s noble, good-hearted, selfless character. It is a form of persuasion, even a subtle form of coercion." -Robert Greene
"It is easy to be overwhelmed by everything that faces you in battle, where so many people are asking or telling you what to do. So many vital matters press in on you that you can lose sight of your goals and plans; suddenly you can’t see the forest for the trees." -Robert Greene
"If Franklin became antagonistic toward him, as would be expected after what had happened with the battle over the clerk position, he would confirm any unpleasant notions Norris had entertained of him and convert him into an implacable foe. On the other hand, if he ignored him, Norris might read this as an example of Franklin’s haughtiness and hate him all the more. To some it might seem to be the strong and manly thing to go on the attack and fight back, proving he was not someone to mess with. But would it not be infinitely more powerful to work against Norris’s expectations and subtly convert him into an implacable ally?" -Robert Greene
"Cuando pongo cebo para los ciervos, no disparo al primero que llega a oler, sino que aguardo a que la manada se reúna." -Robert Greene
"If you work hard, you will make your way to the inner circle of knowledge. That is the end goal of mastery: an inside-out understanding." -Robert Greene
"فأكثر اهتمامنا إنما هو بأفكارنا، ومشاعرنا، وخبراتنا؛ لا بأفكار الآخرين ومشاعرهم وخبراتهم،" -Robert Greene
"In the end, think of this philosophy in the following terms: Since the beginning of human consciousness, our awareness of death has terrified us. This terror has shaped our beliefs, our religions, our institutions, and so much of our behavior in ways we cannot see or understand. We humans have become the slaves to our fears and our evasions." -Robert Greene
"Find Inspiration from Your Heroes" -Robert Greene
"Everyone carries a shadow, and the less it is embodied in the individual’s conscious life, the blacker and denser it is. —Carl Jung" -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: Expand your knowledge to related fields. Pick an auxiliary skill and start practicing." -Robert Greene
"The eyes are indeed a telling indicator, but the envious microexpression affects the entire face." -Robert Greene
"A raiva é a reação emocional mais destrutiva, pois é a que mais turva sua visão. Também tem um efeito cascata que invariavelmente torna as situações menos controláveis e acentua a decisão do seu inimigo. Se você está tentando destruir um inimigo que o magoou, é bem melhor desarmá-lo fingindo amizade do que mostrando que está com raiva." -Robert Greene
"REVERSAL There can never be any value in fighting uneconomically, but it is always a wise course to make your opponent waste as much of his resources as possible. This can be done through hit-and-run tactics, forcing him to expend energy chasing after you. Lure him into thinking that one big offensive will ruin you; then bog that offensive down in a protracted war in which he loses valuable time and resources. A frustrated opponent exhausting energy on punches he cannot land will soon make mistakes and open himself up to a vicious counterattack." -Robert Greene
"The way you carry yourself will often determine how you are treated: In the long run, appearing vulgar or common will make people disrespect you. For a king respects himself and inspires the same sentiment in others. By acting regally and confident of your powers, you make yourself seem destined to wear a crown." -Robert Greene
"Power requires the ability to play with appearances. To this end you must learn to wear many masks and keep a bag full of deceptive tricks. Deception and masquerade should not be seen as ugly or immoral. All human interaction requires deception on many levels, and in some ways what separates humans from animals is our ability to lie and deceive." -Robert Greene
"The more you are seen and heard from, the more common you appear. If you are already established in a group, temporary withdrawal from it will make you more talked about, even more admired. You must learn when to leave. Create value through scarcity." -Robert Greene
"Never waste valuable time, or mental peace of mind, on the affairs of others—that is too high a price to pay" -Robert Greene
"The notion of danger, challenge, sometimes death, might seem outdated, but danger is critical in seduction. It adds emotional spice and is particularly appealing to men today, who are normally so rational and repressed." -Robert Greene
"Remember: The problems created by an audacious move can be disguised, even remedied, by more and greater audacity." -Robert Greene
"If you cannot help being charming and superior, you must learn to avoid such monsters of vanity. Either that, or find a way to mute your good qualities when in the company of a Cesare Borgia." -Robert Greene
"Your predictability gives them a sense of control. Turn the tables: Be deliberately unpredictable." -Robert Greene
"... patience ... the principal requirement in the art of timing." -Robert Greene
"If you notice resentful tendencies within yourself, the best antidote is to learn to let go of hurts and disappointments in life. It is better to explode into anger in the moment, even it if it’s irrational, than to stew on slights that you have probably hallucinated or exaggerated. People are generally indifferent to your fate, not as antagonistic as you imagine. Very few of their actions are really directed at you. Stop seeing everything in personal terms. Respect is something that must be earned through your achievements, not something given to you simply for being human. You must break out of the resentful cycle by becoming more generous toward people and human nature." -Robert Greene
"الشاهد: لا يتكون الحمق من ارتكاب الحماقة. ولكن من العجز عن إخفائها. فكل ابن آدم خطَّاء، ولكن العقلاء يخفون الأخطاء التي سقطوا فيها، بينما يعلنها الحمقى على الملأ. فالسمعة تعتمد على ما هو مخبأ أكثر من اعتمادها على ما هو مُشَاهَد. فإن لم تكن تستطيع أن تكون طيِّباً، فكن حريصاً." -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: Develop the habit of examining in depth your own emotional responses. You will end up slowly eliminating unnecessary reactions. The Laws of Human Nature, 1: Master Your Emotional Self—The Law of Irrationality" -Robert Greene
"The answer is to reverse this perspective: Stop fixating on what other people are saying and doing. Stop fixating on the money, the connections, the outward appearance of things. Instead look inward, focus on the smaller internal changes that lay the groundwork for a much larger change in fortune. It is the difference between grasping at an illusion and immersing yourself in reality. And reality is what will liberate and transform you." -Robert Greene
"It is in fact the height of selfishness to merely consume what others create and to retreat into a shell of limited goals and immediate pleasures. Alienating" -Robert Greene
"If you yearn for power, quickly lay honesty aside, and train yourself in the art of concealing your intentions." -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: Look for signs of your own aggressive impulses in past actions—how they led to friction or success." -Robert Greene
"During the era of the Warring States in ancient China, the state of Qi found itself threatened by the powerful armies of the state of Wei. The Qi general consulted the famous strategist Sun Pin (a descendant of Suntzu himself), who told him that the Wei general looked down on the armies of Qi, believing that their soldiers were cowards. That, said Sun Pin, was the key to victory. He proposed a plan: Enter Wei territory with a large army and make thousands of campfires. The next day make half that number of campfires, and the day after that, half that number again. Putting his trust in Sun Pin, the Qi general did as he was told. The Wei general, of course, was carefully monitoring the invasion, and he noted the dwindling campfires. Given his predisposition to see the Qi soldiers as cowards, what could this mean but that they were defecting? He would advance with his cavalry and crush this weak army; his infantry would follow, and they would march into Qi itself. Sun Pin, hearing of the approaching Wei cavalry and calculating how fast they were moving, retreated and stationed the Qi army in a narrow pass in the mountains. He had a large tree cut down and stripped of its bark, then wrote on the bare log, 'The general of Wei will die at this tree.' He set the log in the path of the pursuing Wei army, then hid archers on both sides of the pass. In the middle of the night, the Wei general, at the head of his cavalry, reached the place where the log blocked the road. Something was written on it; he ordered a torch lit to read it. The torchlight was the signal and the lure: the Qi archers rained arrows on the trapped Wei horsemen. The Wei general, realizing he had been tricked, killed himself. Sun Pin based his baiting of the Wei general on his knowledge of the man’s personality, which was arrogant and violent. By turning these qualities to his advantage, encouraging his enemy’s greed and aggression, Sun Pin could control the man’s mind. You, too, should look for the emotion that your enemies are least able to manage, then bring it to the surface. With a little work on your part, they will lay themselves open to your counterattack." -Robert Greene
"Our earliest ancestors were descended from primates who thrived for millions of years in a treetop environment, and who in the process had evolved one of the most remarkable visual systems in nature. To move quickly and efficiently in such a world, they developed extremely sophisticated eye and muscle coordination. Their eyes slowly evolved into a full-frontal position on the face, giving them binocular, stereoscopic vision. This system provides the brain a highly accurate three-dimensional and detailed perspective, but is rather narrow. Animals that possess such vision—as opposed to eyes on the side or half side—are generally efficient predators like owls or cats. They use this powerful sight to home in on prey in the distance. Tree-living primates evolved this vision for a different purpose—to navigate branches, and to spot fruits, berries, and insects with greater effectiveness. They also evolved elaborate color vision." -Robert Greene
"All great leaders since Moses have known that a feared enemy must be crushed completely" -Robert Greene
"At the core of this pattern is a continual back-and-forth rhythm that comes from emerging generations reacting against the imbalances and mistakes of the previous generation. If we go back four generations in our own time we can clearly see this. We start with the silent generation. As children experiencing the Great Depression and as adults coming of age during World War II and the postwar period, they became rather cautious and conservative, valuing stability, material comforts, and fitting tightly into the group. The next generation, the baby boomers, found the conformity of their parents rather stifling. Emerging in the 1960s, and not haunted by the harsh financial realities of their parents, this generation valued personal expression, having adventures, and being idealistic. This was followed by Generation X, which was marked by the chaos of the 1960s and the ensuing social and political scandals. Coming of age in the 1980s and 1990s, it was pragmatic and confrontational, valuing individualism and self-reliance. This generation reacted against the hypocrisies and impracticalities in their parents’ idealism. This was followed by the millennial generation. Traumatized by terrorism and a financial crisis, they reacted against the individualism of the last generation, craving security and teamwork, with a noted dislike of conflict and confrontation." -Robert Greene
"Most important of all, do not take pity. Do not enmesh yourself in trying to help. The infector will remain unchanged, but you will be unhinged." -Robert Greene
"but once she gave in to sex the man was back in control; and it she withheld sex, he could simply look elsewhere—or exert force. What good" -Robert Greene
"Experimenting with the skills and options related to your personality and inclinations is not only the single most essential step in developing a high sense of purpose, it is perhaps the most important step in life in general." -Robert Greene
"You do not have to know all the details. Sometimes you need to delegate—let your subordinates handle the information gathering." -Robert Greene
"Right now, you are living off the fruits of millions of people in the past who have made your life incomparably easier through their struggles and inventions. You have benefited from an education that embodies the wisdom of thousands of years of experience. It is so easy to take this all for granted, to imagine that it all just came about naturally and that you are entitled to have all of these powers. That is the view of spoiled children, and you must see any signs of such an attitude within you as shameful. This world needs constant improvement and renewal. You are here not merely to gratify your impulses and consume what others have made but to make and contribute as well, to serve a higher purpose." -Robert Greene
"إن البلاط - وهو في هذه الحالة عالم الدبلوماسيين ورجال الدولة بكامله، ومعم أيضاً الصحفيون الذين يتوددون إليهم - هو مكان للاعتماد المتبادل. ومن عدم الحكمة مضايقة ذوي النفوذ أو إهانة أذواقهم، حتى ولو كانوا دونك أو مساوين لك. فإن كان رجل مثل تشرشل يستطيع ابتلاع نقد رجل مثل لوس، فإنه يثبت أنه رجل حاشية بلا نظير. (ولعل تصحيحه للوحة كان يوحي بشيء من التنازل كذلك. ولكنه قام به بطريقة ذكية خفية بحيث لم يلاحظ لوس أي استهانة به). قلِّد تشرشل؛ وأضاف الخروف. لأن من المفيد دائماً أن تلعب دور رجل الحاشية الذي يمتثل، حتى عندما لا تكون في خدمة سيد." -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: Learning how to learn is the most important skill to acquire." -Robert Greene
"patience is the supreme virtue of the gods, who have nothing but time." -Robert Greene
"Aggression is a tendency that is latent in every single human individual." -Robert Greene
"Understand this: Words are a dime a dozen. Everyone knows that in the heat of an argument, we will all say anything to support our cause. We will quote the Bible, refer to unverifiable statistics. Who can be persuaded by bags of air like that? Action and demonstration are much more powerful and meaningful." -Robert Greene
"Dado que las ideas de la gente tienden a girar en torno a sus preocupaciones e inseguridades diarias, no podrás proceder a seducirla hasta adormecer poco a poco sus ansiedades y llenar su distraída mente con ideas de ti." -Robert Greene
"One master said, 'He doesn’t just look for the best move. He looks for the move that will disturb the man he is playing." -Robert Greene
"You will learn to mentally cut them down to size and focus on the glaring weaknesses and insecurities behind all of their bluster. You will not fall for their myth, and this will neutralize the intimidation they depend on. You will scoff at their cover stories and elaborate explanations for their selfish behavior. Your ability to stay calm will infuriate them and often push them into overreaching or making a mistake." -Robert Greene
"A person who has something to prove will move mountains for you." -Robert Greene
"The Current is like a mental electrical charge that gains its power through a constant alternation. We observe something in the world that strikes our attention and makes us wonder what it might mean. In thinking about it, we devise several possible explanations. When we look at the phenomenon again we see it differently as we cycle through the various ideas we had imagined to account for it. Perhaps we conduct experiments to verify or alter our speculations. Now when we look at the phenomenon yet again, weeks or months later, we see more and more aspects of its hidden reality." -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: Let go of the past and feel yourself carried along by the stream of life and all the power and energy that it will bring us in its wake." -Robert Greene
"To accomplish this you must always be vigilant and ruthless, keeping your creation quiet until you can be sure there are no vultures circling overhead. Second, learn to take advantage of other people’s work to further your own cause. Time is precious and life is short. If you try to do it all on your own, you run yourself ragged, waste energy, and burn yourself out. It is far better to conserve your forces, pounce on the work others have done, and find a way to make it your own." -Robert Greene
"Oysters open completely when the moon is full; and when the crab sees one it throws a piece of stone or seaweed into it and the oyster cannot close again so that it serves the crab for meat. Such is the fate of him who opens his mouth too much and thereby puts himself at the mercy of the listener. Leonardo da Vinci, 1452–1519" -Robert Greene
"Certainly there are parents who create or intensify such envy by playing favorites, by withdrawing on purpose to make the child more dependent. In any event, infants or children experiencing such envy will not feel grateful and loved for the attention they do get but instead feel continually deprived and unsatisfied. A pattern is set for their entire lives—they are children and later adults for whom nothing is ever quite good enough. All potentially positive experiences are spoiled by the sensation that they should have more and better. Something is missing, and they can only imagine that other people are cheating them out of what they should have. They develop an eagle eye for what others have that they don’t. This becomes their dominant passion." -Robert Greene
"You do not judge other people; you accept them as they are." -Robert Greene
"The real trick—the equivalent of seeing the negative cue—is to focus our attention on some need that is not currently being met, on what is absent." -Robert Greene
"This should not upset you but liberate you. The book will teach you to stop taking personally their insinuating comments, shows of coldness, or moments of irritation. The more you grasp this, the easier it will be to react not with your emotions but rather with the desire to understand where their behavior might come from. You will feel much calmer in the process. And as this takes root in you, you will be less prone to moralize and judge people; instead you will accept them and their flaws as part of human nature. People will like you all the more as they sense this tolerant attitude in you. Second, the Laws will make you a master interpreter of the cues that people continually emit, giving you a much greater ability to judge their character. Normally, if we pay attention to people’s behavior, we are in a rush to fit their actions into categories and to hurry to conclusions, so we settle for the judgment that suits our own preconceptions. Or we accept their self-serving explanations. The Laws will rid you of this habit by making it clear how easy it is to misread people and how deceptive first impressions can be. You will slow yourself down, mistrust your initial judgment, and instead train yourself to analyze what you see. You will think in terms of opposites—when people overtly display some trait, such as confidence or hypermasculinity, they are most often concealing the contrary reality. You will realize that people are continually playing to the public, making a show of being progressive and saintly only to better disguise their shadow. You will see the signs of this shadow leaking out in everyday life. If people take an action that seems out of character, you will take note: what often appears out of character is actually more of their true character. If people are essentially lazy or foolish, they leave clues to this in the smallest of details that you can pick up well before their behavior harms you." -Robert Greene
"The model goes like this: You want to learn as many skills as possible, following the direction that circumstances lead you to, but only if they are related to your deepest interests. Like a hacker, you value the process of self-discovery and making things that are of the highest quality. You avoid the trap of following one set career path. You are not sure where this will all lead, but you are taking full advantage of the openness of information, all of the knowledge about skills now at our disposal. You see what kind of work suits you and what you want to avoid at all cost. You move by trial and error. This is how you pass your twenties. You are the programmer of this wide-ranging apprenticeship, within the loose constraints of your personal interests." -Robert Greene
"Our imagination is essentially limitless. And what we imagine has almost the force of what we actually experience." -Robert Greene
"Your object, however, offers the fantasy of a quick path to wealth and success, of recovering lost youth, of becoming a new person, and even of conquering death itself. People will grasp greedily at such things because they are considered so impossible. By the law of induction we can imagine all of these shortcuts and fantasies (just as we can imagine a unicorn), which gives us the desire to reach them, and imagining them is almost like experiencing them. Remember: it is not possession but desire that secretly impels people. To possess something inevitably brings about some disappointment and sparks the desire for something new to pursue. You are preying upon the human need for fantasies and the pleasures of" -Robert Greene
"The way to recover the meaning of life and the worthwhileness of life is to recover the power of experience, to have impulse voices from within, and to be able to hear these impulse voices from within. —Abraham Maslow" -Robert Greene
"Related to this is what is known as Othello’s error. In the play Othello by Shakespeare, the main character, Othello, assumes that his wife, Desdemona, is guilty of adultery based on her nervous response when questioned about some evidence. In truth Desdemona is innocent, but the aggressive, paranoid nature of Othello and his intimidating questions make her nervous, which he interprets as a sign of guilt. What happens in such cases is that we pick up certain emotional cues from the other person—nervousness, for instance—and we assume they come from a certain source. We rush to the first explanation that fits what we want to see. But the nervousness could have several explanations, could be a temporary reaction to our questioning or the overall circumstances. The error is not in the observing but in the decoding." -Robert Greene
"One of Cosimo's favorite expressions was, ""Envy is weed that should not be watered." -Robert Greene
"To serve this higher purpose, you must cultivate what is unique about you. Stop listening so much to the words and opinions of others, telling you who you are and what you should like and dislike. Judge things and people for yourself. Question what you think and why you feel a certain way. Know yourself thoroughly—your innate tastes and inclinations, the fields that naturally attract you. Work every day on improving those skills that mesh with your unique spirit and purpose. Add to the needed diversity of culture by creating something that reflects your uniqueness. Embrace what makes you different. Not following this course is the real reason you feel depressed at times. Moments of depression are a call to listen again to your inner authority." -Robert Greene
"study of some seventy great classical composers determined that with only three exceptions, all of the composers had needed at least ten years to produce their first great work, and the exceptions had somehow managed to create theirs in nine years." -Robert Greene
"When you look at the exceptionally creative work of Masters, you must not ignore the years of practice, the endless routines, the hours of doubt, and the tenacious overcoming of obstacles these people endured." -Robert Greene
"For every famous martyr there are thousands more who have inspired neither a religion nor a rebellion, so that if martyrdom does sometimes grant a certain power, it does so unpredictably." -Robert Greene
"Verbal argument has one vital use in the realm of power: To distract and cover your tracks when you are practicing deception or are caught in a lie." -Robert Greene
"He who asks fortune-tellers the future unwittingly forfeits an inner intimation of coming events that is a thousand times more exact than anything they may say. WALTER BENJAMIN, 1892-1940" -Robert Greene
"DINERO Yusuf Ibn Jafar el-Amudi solía tomar sumas de dinero, a veces muy grandes, de quienes iban a estudiar con él. Un distinguido legalista, al visitarlo en cierta oportunidad, le dijo: 'Me siento encantado e impresionado por tus enseñanzas, y estoy seguro de que conduces a tus discípulos de manera correcta y adecuada. Pero tomar dinero por transmitir conocimiento no condice con la tradición. Además, el acto se presta a malas interpretaciones.' El-Amudi contestó: 'Nunca vendí ningún tipo de conocimiento. Sobre la tierra no hay dinero suficiente para pagarlo. En cuanto a las malas interpretaciones, abstenerse de cobrar dinero no las evitará, porque se encontrarán otros temas. Sepa usted que el hombre que toma dinero podrá codiciar el dinero, o podrá no codiciarlo. Pero un hombre que no cobra nada es el que se encuentra bajo la más grave sospecha de estar robando el alma a sus discípulos. La gente que dice ‘no cobro nada’ puede, de pronto, estar robándole la voluntad a su víctima'. The Dermis Probe, IDRIES SHAH, 1970" -Robert Greene
"About the only thing that constant human contact cannot facilitate is thought. The weight of society’s pressure to conform, and the lack of distance from other people, can make it impossible to think clearly about what is going on around you." -Robert Greene
"The truth is that we humans live on the surface, reacting emotionally to what people say and do. We form opinions of others and ourselves that are rather simplified. We settle for the easiest and most convenient story to tell ourselves." -Robert Greene
"In searching, as you must, for the methods that will gain you the most power for the least effort, you will find the creation of a cultlike following one of the most effective." -Robert Greene
"La fortaleza. Al-ta y erguida sobre la colina,la ciudadela se convierte enun símbolo de todo lo detestabledel poder y la autoridad. Los ciu-dadanos lo traicionarán ante el pri-mer enemigo que aparezca. Aislada detoda comunicación y de toda inteligen-cia, la ciudadela caerá con suma facilidad." -Robert Greene
"This is the model: Make others dependent on you. To get rid of you might spell disaster, even death, and your master dares not tempt fate by finding out. There are many ways to obtain such a position. Foremost among them is to possess a talent and creative skill that simply cannot be replaced." -Robert Greene
"The value of a thing sometimes lies not in what one attains with it, but in what one pays for it—what it costs us." -Robert Greene
"Thus it is plain that faults that are evident to the senses, gross and corporal, or otherwise notorious to the world, we know by our enemies sooner than by our friends and familiars" -Robert Greene
"The ability to measure people and to know who you’re dealing with is the most important skill of all in gathering and conserving power. Without it you are blind:" -Robert Greene
"maelstroms" -Robert Greene
"Most people don’t have the patience to absorb their minds in the fine points and minutiae that are intrinsically part of their work. They are in a hurry to create effects and make a splash; they think in large brush strokes. Their work inevitably reveals their lack of attention to detail" -Robert Greene
"With the company, we should look deeply at the organization itself—how well people communicate with one another, how quickly and fluidly information is passed along. If people are not communicating, if they are not on the same page, no amount of changes in the product or marketing will improve performance." -Robert Greene
"Related to mastering your emotions is the ability to distance yourself from the present moment and think objectively about the past and future." -Robert Greene
"Focus on their actions, which are generally more consistent, and not on their words." -Robert Greene
"The power of demonstrating your idea is that your opponents do not get defensive, and are therefore more open to persuasion." -Robert Greene
"The more mystery surrounds your actions, the more awesome your power seems. You appear to be the only one who can do what you do—and the appearance of having an exclusive gift is immensely powerful. Finally, because you achieve your accomplishments with grace and ease, people believe that you could always do more if you tried harder. This elicits not only admiration but a touch of fear. Your powers are untapped—no one can fathom their limits." -Robert Greene
"Todo lo que es gratuito es peligroso, ya que por lo general implica alguna treta o un compromiso oculto. Las cosas que tienen costo valen la pena pagarse. De esta manera, no estará obligado a gratitud alguna, se verá libre de culpa y evitará fraudes y engaños. Lo más inteligente es, a menudo, pagar el precio total. Cuando hablamos de excelencia no hay gangas. Sea generoso con su dinero y hágalo circular, dado que la generosidad es señal e imán de poder." -Robert Greene
"We cannot separate this aggressiveness from the way we attack problems, alter the environment to make our lives easier, fight injustice, or create anything on a large scale." -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: Mastery is a process and discovering your calling is the starting point. Mastery, I: Discover Your Calling—The Life’s Task" -Robert Greene
"Two horses were carrying two loads. The front Horse went well , but the rear Horse was lazy. The men began to pile the rear Horse’s load on the front Horse; when they had transferred it all, the rear Horse found it easy going, and he said to the front Horse: 'Toil and sweat! The more you try, the more you have to suffer.' When they reached the tavern, the owner said; 'Why should I fodder two horses when I carry all on one? I had better give the one all the food it wants, and cut the throat of the other; at least I shall have the hide.' And so he did." -Robert Greene
"You like to imagine yourself in control of your fate, consciously planning the course of your life as best you can. But you are largely unaware of how deeply your emotions dominate you. They make you veer toward ideas that soothe your ego. They make you look for evidence that confirms what you already want to believe. They make you see what you want to see, depending on your mood, and this disconnect from reality is the source of the bad decisions and negative patterns that haunt your life." -Robert Greene
"Sometimes, however, it is better to play the most capricious, unpredictable move." -Robert Greene
"Đức tính tốt nhất chính là làm tăng nhu cầu quyến rũ" -Robert Greene
"You will think in terms of opposites—when people overtly display some trait, such as confidence or hypermasculinity, they are most often concealing the contrary reality. You will realize that people are continually playing to the public, making a show of being progressive and saintly only to better disguise their shadow." -Robert Greene
"The key to keeping the audience on the edge of their seats is letting events unfold slowly, then speeding them up at the right moment, according to a pattern and tempo that you control." -Robert Greene
"When I have laid bait for deer, I don’t shoot at the first doe that comes to sniff, but wait until the whole herd has gathered round. Otto von Bismarck, 1815–1898" -Robert Greene
"Если положить на воду пустой сосуд из тыквы и слегка дотронуться до него, он заскользит по поверхности воды. Как бы вы ни старались, он не удержится на одном месте. Развитый человеческий разум не застревает на чем-то одном, даже на миг. Он подобен пустому и легкому сосуду на воде, двигающемуся от малейшего прикосновения. Такуан (1573–1645). Япония" -Robert Greene
"a person who cannot control his words shows that he cannot control himself, and is unworthy of respect." -Robert Greene
"I shall never repeat such a mistake; I shall never fall into such a trap again." -Robert Greene
"We must stop postponing our awareness. We need to stop feeling superior and special, seeing that death is a fate shared by us all and something that should bind us in a deeply empathetic way. We are all a part of the brotherhood and sisterhood of death." -Robert Greene
"be aware of these illusions and façades and to train ourselves to look through them. We must scrutinize everybody for signs of their character, no matter the appearance they present or the position they occupy." -Robert Greene
"Bill Bradley (b. 1943) fell in love with the sport of basketball somewhere around the age of ten. He had one advantage over his peers—he was tall for his age. But beyond that, he had no real natural gift for the game. He was slow and gawky, and could not jump very high. None of the aspects of the game came easily to him. He would have to compensate for all of his inadequacies through sheer practice. And so he proceeded to devise one of the most rigorous and efficient training routines in the history of sports. Managing to get his hands on the keys to the high school gym, he created for himself a schedule—three and a half hours of practice after school and on Sundays, eight hours every Saturday, and three hours a day during the summer. Over the years, he would keep rigidly to this schedule. In the gym, he would put ten-pound weights in his shoes to strengthen his legs and give him more spring to his jump. His greatest weaknesses, he decided, were his dribbling and his overall slowness. He would have to work on these and also transform himself into a superior passer to make up for his lack of speed. For this purpose, he devised various exercises. He wore eyeglass frames with pieces of cardboard taped to the bottom, so he could not see the basketball while he practiced dribbling. This would train him to always look around him rather than at the ball—a key skill in passing. He set up chairs on the court to act as opponents. He would dribble around them, back and forth, for hours, until he could glide past them, quickly changing direction. He spent hours at both of these exercises, well past any feelings of boredom or pain. Walking down the main street of his hometown in Missouri, he would keep his eyes focused straight ahead and try to notice the goods in the store windows, on either side, without turning his head. He worked on this endlessly, developing his peripheral vision so he could see more of the court. In his room at home, he practiced pivot moves and fakes well into the night—such skills that would also help him compensate for his lack of speed. Bradley put all of his creative energy into coming up with novel and effective ways of practicing. One time his family traveled to Europe via transatlantic ship. Finally, they thought, he would give his training regimen a break—there was really no place to practice on board. But below deck and running the length of the ship were two corridors, 900 feet long and quite narrow—just enough room for two passengers. This was the perfect location to practice dribbling at top speed while maintaining perfect ball control. To make it even harder, he decided to wear special eyeglasses that narrowed his vision. For hours every day he dribbled up one side and down the other, until the voyage was done. Working this way over the years, Bradley slowly transformed himself into one of the biggest stars in basketball—first as an All-American at Princeton University and then as a professional with the New York Knicks. Fans were in awe of his ability to make the most astounding passes, as if he had eyes on the back and sides of his head—not to mention his dribbling prowess, his incredible arsenal of fakes and pivots, and his complete gracefulness on the court. Little did they know that such apparent ease was the result of so many hours of intense practice over so many years." -Robert Greene
"What gets us into trouble in the realm of power is often our own overreaction to the moves of our enemies and rivals." -Robert Greene
"But it’s not what you have that brings you victory, it’s how you use it." -Robert Greene
"فمعاملة الجميع بالتساوي معناها تجاهل الفوارق فيما بينهم، ورفع أولئك الأقل مهارة، وقمع المبدعين." -Robert Greene
"Being a leader of even the smallest group gives you something to live up to: people are watching you, judging you, depending on you. To lose your composure would make it hard for you to live with yourself." -Robert Greene
"When you hold yourself back, you incur not anger but a kind of respect. You instantly seem powerful because you make yourself un-graspable, rather than succumbing to the group, or to the relationship, as most people do. As your reputation for independence grows, more and more people will come to desire you, wanting to be the one who gets you to commit. The moment you commit, the magic is gone. You become like everyone else. People will try all kinds of underhanded methods to get you to commit." -Robert Greene
"(Sentir temor y peligro puede agudizar más tarde la seducción; pero si provocas esas sensaciones en las primeras etapas, lo más probable es que ahuyentes a tu víctima.) Con frecuencia, la mejor manera de parecer inofensivo y concederte margen de maniobra es establecer una amistad, acercándote cada vez más pero manteniendo siempre la distancia adecuada con amistades del sexo opuesto. Tus conversaciones amistosas con tu objetivo te darán valiosa información sobre su carácter, gustos, debilidades, los anhelos infantiles que rigen su comportamiento adulto. Además" -Robert Greene
"In the evolution of fear, a decisive moment occurred in the nineteenth century when people in advertising and journalism discovered that if they framed their stories and appeals with fear, they could capture our attention." -Robert Greene
"What if, however, we could dive below the surface and see deep within, getting closer to the actual roots of what causes human behavior?" -Robert Greene
"All people have insecurities, and often the best way to deceive a sucker is to play upon his insecurities. But in the realm of power, everything is a question of degree, and the person who is decidedly more insecure than the average mortal presents great dangers. Be warned: If you practice deception or trickery of any sort, study your mark well. Some people’s insecurity and ego fragility cannot tolerate the slightest offense. To see if you are dealing with such a type, test them first—make, say, a mild joke at their expense. A confident person will laugh; an overly insecure one will react as if personally insulted. If you suspect you are dealing with this type, find another victim." -Robert Greene
"You pay close attention to what they do in the present. You see their actions not as isolated incidents but as parts of a compulsive pattern. If you ignore the pattern it is your own fault." -Robert Greene
"Control is an elusive phenomenon. Often, the harder you tug at people, the less control you have over them. Leadership is more than just barking out orders; it takes subtlety." -Robert Greene
"Musashi’s opponents depended on brilliant technique, flashy swords, and unorthodox weapons. That is the same as fighting the last war: instead of responding to the moment, they relied on training, technology, and what had worked before. Musashi, who had grasped the essence of strategy when he was still very young, turned their rigidity into their downfall. His first thought was of the gambit that would take this particular opponent most by surprise. Then he would anchor himself in the moment: having set his opponent off balance with something unexpected, he would watch carefully, then respond with another action, usually improvised, that would turn mere disequilibrium into defeat and death." -Robert Greene
"fear is an emotion we find hard to resist or control" -Robert Greene
"For those with the feminine style, it is easy to beat yourself up after failures or mistakes. The introspection can go too far. The same can be said of ascribing success to others. Women more than men will suffer from low self-esteem, which is not natural but acquired. They often have internalized critical voices from others. Jung called these animus voices: all the men over the years who have judged women for their looks and intelligence. You want to catch these voices as they occur and rid yourself of them. Because failures or criticisms might affect you too deeply, you can become afraid to try something again, which narrows your learning possibilities. You need to adopt more of the masculine self-confidence, without the attendant stupidity. In your daily encounters, try to drop or minimize your emotional responses to events and see them from a greater distance. You are training yourself to not take things so personally." -Robert Greene
"Create a Ladder of Descending Goals" -Robert Greene
"But despite what you may think, good luck is more dangerous than bad luck. Bad luck teaches valuable lessons about patience,m timing, and the need to be prepared for the worst; good luck deludes you into the opposite lesson, making you think your brilliance will carry you through. Your fortune will inevitably turn, and when it does you will be completely unprepared." -Robert Greene
"Feeling motivated and energized, we can overcome almost anything. Feeling bored and restless, our minds shut off and we become increasingly passive." -Robert Greene
"Our natural response to reading or hearing about the darker qualities in human nature is to exclude ourselves. It is always the other person who is narcissistic, irrational, envious, grandiose, aggressive, or passive-aggressive. We almost always see ourselves as having the best intentions. If we go astray, it is the fault of circumstances or people forcing us to react negatively. The Laws will make you stop once and for all this Self-deluding process. We are all cut from the same cloth, and we all share the same tendencies. The sooner you realize this, the greater your power will be in overcoming these potential negative traits within you. You will examine your own motives, look at your own shadow, and become aware of your own passive-aggressive tendencies. This will make it that much easier to spot such traits in others." -Robert Greene
"you will feel differently about yourself. Your concept of time will expand and you will realize that if the past lives on in you, what you are doing today, the world you live in, will live on and affect the future, connecting you to the larger human spirit that moves through us all. You in this moment are a part of that unbroken chain. And this can be an intoxicating experience, a strange intimation of immortality." -Robert Greene
"We are all so careful and correct that when we feel the carefully channeled anger in a film or a book or wherever it is, it is like a fresh wind. It attracts all of our own frustrations and resentments and lets them out. We recognize that it is something real and authentic. In your expressive work, never shy away from anger but capture and channel it, letting it breathe into the work a sense of life and movement. In giving expression to such anger, you will always find an audience." -Robert Greene
"They are there, before our eyes, for us to see—'Yes, now the statue’s nose does look just right.' There are no offensive words, no possibility of misinterpretation. No one can argue with a demonstrated proof. As Baltasar Gracián remarks, 'The truth is generally seen, rarely heard." -Robert Greene
"Act boldly on one of your ideas today." -Robert Greene
"The envy elicited by Sir Walter Raleigh is the worst kind: It was inspired by his natural talent and grace, which he felt was best displayed in its full flower." -Robert Greene
"But fools carry with them a different scale of values. They place more importance on short-term matters—grabbing immediate money, getting attention from the public or media, and looking good. They are ruled by their ego and insecurities. They tend to enjoy drama and political intrigue for their own sake. When they criticize, they always emphasize matters that are irrelevant to the overall picture or argument. They are more interested in their career and position than in the truth. You can distinguish them by how little they get done, or by how hard they make it for others to get results. They lack a certain common sense, getting worked up about things that are not really important while ignoring problems that will spell doom in the long term." -Robert Greene
"those who follow a rigid, singular path in their youth often find themselves in a career dead end in their forties" -Robert Greene
"Our vanity, our passions, our spirit of imitation, our abstract intelligence, our habits have long been at work, and it is the task of art to undo this work of theirs, making us travel back in the direction from which we have come to the depths where what has really existed lies unknown within us. —Marcel Proust" -Robert Greene
"Two Kinds of Failure A thinker sees his own actions as experiments and questions—as attempts to find out something. Success and failure are for him answers above all. — FRIEDRICH NIETZSCHE, THE GAY SCIENCE" -Robert Greene
"man who knows the court is master of his gestures, of his eyes and of his face; he is profound, impenetrable; he dissimulates bad offices, smiles at his enemies, controls his irritation, disguises his passions, belies his heart, speaks and acts against his feelings. Jean de La Bruyère, 1645-1696" -Robert Greene
"… friendship and love blind every man to their interests. Nobody believes a friend can betray." -Robert Greene
"People simply spend less time in social interactions and more time socializing online, which makes it increasingly difficult to develop empathy and sharpen social skills." -Robert Greene
"Use the positive side of this emotional osmosis to advantage. If, for example, you are miserly by nature, you will never go beyond a certain limit; only generous souls attain greatness. Associate with the generous, then, and they will infect you, opening up everything that is tight and restricted in you. If you are gloomy, gravitate to the cheerful. If you are prone to isolation, force yourself to befriend the gregarious. Never associate with those who share your defects—they will reinforce everything that holds you back. Only create associations with positive affinities. Make this a rule of life and you will benefit more than from all the therapy in the world." -Robert Greene
"You might entertain the notion that this concept of the Shadow is somewhat antiquated. After all, we live in a much more rational, scientifically oriented culture today. People are more transparent and self-aware than ever, we might say. We are much less repressed than our ancestors, who had to deal with all sorts of pressures from organized religion. The truth, however, might very well be the opposite. In many ways we are more split than ever between our conscious, social selves and our unconscious Shadow. We live in a culture that enforces powerful codes of correctness that we must abide by or face the shaming that is now so common on social media. We are supposed to live up to ideals of selflessness, which are impossible for us because we are not angels. All of this drives the dark side of our personalities even further underground. We can read signs of this in how deeply and secretly we are all drawn to the dark side in our culture. We thrill at watching shows in which various Machiavellian characters manipulate, deceive, and dominate. We lap up stories in the news of those who have been caught acting out in some way and enjoy the ensuing shaming. Serial killers and diabolical cult leaders enthrall us. With these shows and the news we can always become moralistic and talk of how much we despise such villains, but the truth is that the culture constantly feeds us these figures because we are hungry for expressions of the dark side. All of this provides a degree of release from the tension we experience in having to play the angel and seem so correct." -Robert Greene
"The model goes like this: You want to learn as many skills as possible, following the direction that circumstances lead you to, but only if they are related to your deepest interests. Like a hacker, you value the process of self-discovery and making things that are of the highest quality." -Robert Greene
"Debes aprender a despertar la curiosidad de la gente dejándola vislumbrar algo de tu vida privada —las causas por las que luchas, la persona de la que estás enamorado (por el momento)—, algo que parezca revelar un elemento de tu personalidad. Déjala fantasear e imaginar." -Robert Greene
"Third, the Laws will empower you to take on and outthink the toxic types who inevitably cross your path and who tend to cause long-term emotional damage. Aggressive, envious, and manipulative people don’t usually announce themselves as such. They have learned to appear charming in initial encounters, to use flattery and other means of disarming us. When they surprise us with their ugly behavior, we feel betrayed, angry, and helpless. They create constant pressure, knowing that in doing so they overwhelm our minds with their presence, making it doubly hard to think straight or strategize." -Robert Greene
"Lo que se hace por amor se hace siempre más allá del bien y del mal. FRIEDRICH NIETZSCHE, Más allá del bien y del mal" -Robert Greene
"Mistakes and failures are precisely your means of education." -Robert Greene
"Many people spend time studying the properties of animals or herbs; how much more important it would be to study those of people, with whom we must live or die!" -Robert Greene
"And at the root of this mental transformation are two simple biological traits—the visual and the social—that primitive humans leveraged into power." -Robert Greene
"When choosing people to work and associate with, do not be mesmerized by their reputation or taken in by the surface image they try to project. Instead, train yourself to look deep within them and see their character." -Robert Greene
"Divided leadership is dangerous because people in groups often think and act in ways that are illogical and ineffective—call it Groupthink. People in groups are political: they say and do things that they think will help their image within the group. They aim to please others, to promote themselves, rather than to see things dispassionately. Where an individual can be bold and creative, a group is often afraid of risk. The need to find a compromise among all the different egos kills creativity. The group has a mind of its own, and that mind is cautious, slow to decide, unimaginative, and sometimes downright irrational." -Robert Greene
"Nothing in the realm of power is set in stone. Overt deceptiveness will sometimes cover your tracks, even making you admired for the honesty of your dishonesty." -Robert Greene
"When T. E. Lawrence was fighting the Turks in the deserts of the Middle East during World War I, he had an epiphany: It seemed to him that conventional warfare had lost its value. The old-fashioned soldier was lost in the enormous armies of the time, in which he was ordered about like a lifeless pawn. Lawrence wanted to turn this around. For him, every soldier's mind was a kingdom he had to conquer. A committed, psychologically motivated soldier would fight harder and more creatively than a puppet." -Robert Greene
"We can see the difference in the decisions and actions that people take and the results that ensue. Rational people demonstrate over time that they are able to finish a project, to realize their goals, to work effectively with a team, and to create something that lasts. Irrational people reveal in their lives negative patterns—mistakes that keep repeating, unnecessary conflicts that follow them wherever they go, dreams and projects that are never realized, anger and desires for change that are never translated into concrete action." -Robert Greene
"When you go into society, leave behind your own ideas and values, and put on the mask that is most appropriate for the group in which you find yourself." -Robert Greene
"In the end, the ability to think inside other people is no different from the intuitive feel Masters gain" -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: Do something today that you used to love doing as a kid. Try to reconnect with your impulse voices. Robert Greene in conversation at Live Talks Los Angeles, February 11, 2019" -Robert Greene
"People tend to wear the mask that shows them off in the best possible light - humble, confident, diligent. They say the right things, smile, and seem interested in our ideas. They learn to conceal their insecurities and envy. [...] People continually leak out their true feelings and unconscious desires in thenonverbal cues they cannot completely control--facial expressions,vocal inflections, tension in the body, and nervous gestures. [...] On the other hand, since appearances are what people judge you by, you must learn how to present the best front and play your role to maximum effect." -Robert Greene
"Las ostras se abren por completo en luna llena; y cuando el cangrejo ve una, arroja en ella una piedra o alga marina y la ostra no puede volver a cerrarse, así que sirve de alimento al cangrejo. Tal es el destino de quien abre demasiado la boca y se pone de ese modo a merced del oyente. LEONARDO DA VINCI, 1452-1519" -Robert Greene
"You will need a degree of humility in this process. You can never know exactly what people are thinking and can easily make mistakes, and so you must not rush to judgments but keep yourself open to learning more. People are more complex than you imagine. Your goal is to simply see their point of view better. As you go through this process, it becomes like a muscle that gets stronger the more you exercise it." -Robert Greene
"Con demasiada frecuencia creemos que el poder cambia a la gente, cuando en realidad la muestra tal como es." -Robert Greene
"There is much to be known, life is short, and life is not life without knowledge. It is therefore an excellent device to acquire knowledge from everybody. Thus, by the sweat of another’s brow, you win the reputation of being an oracle. (Baltasar Gracián, 1601-1658)" -Robert Greene
"Debes creer en algo, y con tal firmeza que anime todos tus gestos y encienda tu mirada. Un prerrequisito de la creencia ardiente es una gran causa que junte a las personas, una cruzada." -Robert Greene
"Anger is the most destructive of emotional responses, for it clouds your vision the most. It also has a ripple effect that invariably makes situations less controllable and heightens your enemy’s resolve." -Robert Greene
"Once you step into a fight that is not of your own choosing, you lose all initiative. The combatants' interests becomes your interests; you become their tool. Learn to control yourself, to restrain your natural tendency to take sides and join the fight. Be friendly and charming to each of the combatants, then step back as they collide. With every battle they grow weaker, while you grow stronger with every battle you avoid." -Robert Greene
"Creating this feeling of validation is the golden key that will unlock people’s defenses. And we cannot survive and thrive in this highly competitive world without possessing such a power. We must discover the power that we can possess by giving people the validation they crave and lowering their defenses. And the key to making this happen in a realistic and strategic manner is to fully understand a fundamental law of human nature." -Robert Greene
"Avoidance of conflict becomes a habit, and you lose the taste for battle. Feeling guilty is pointless; it is not your fault you have enemies." -Robert Greene
"Conviction Bias I believe in this idea so strongly. It must be true." -Robert Greene
"One last warning: Do not imagine that your master’s dependence on you will make him love you. In fact, he may resent and fear you. But, as Machiavelli said, it is better to be feared than loved. Fear you can control; love, never." -Robert Greene
"In other words, concentrated practice over time cannot fail but produce results." -Robert Greene
"entre más obviamente persigas a una persona, más probable es que la ahuyentes. Demasiada atención puede ser interesante un rato, pero pronto se vuelve empalagosa, y al final es claustrofóbica y alarmante. Indica debilidad y necesidad, una combinación poco seductora." -Robert Greene
"Esto no debe anunciarse en tus palabras, sino en tu actitud. No te preocupes si esta cualidad oculta es negativa, como peligro, crueldad o amoralidad; la gente se sentirá atraída por el enigma de todas maneras, y es raro que la bondad pura sea seductora." -Robert Greene
"Plus vous vous laissez aller à parler, plus vous avez l’air banal et peu maître de vous-même. Même anodines, vos paroles sembleront originales si elles restent vagues et énigmatiques. Les personnages puissants impressionnent et intimident parce qu’ils sont peu loquaces. Plus vous en dites et plus vous risquez de dire des bêtises." -Robert Greene
"The key to success in any field is first developing skills in various areas, which you can later combine in unique and creative ways." -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: The fact that you are aware of this insignificance and smallness is paradoxically what renders you powerful and significant. It is an understanding of reality that no other animal is capable of. Such awareness can begin to restore to you that sense of awe and connection that comes from a proper sense of scale." -Robert Greene
"avoiding an argument with those who stand above you." -Robert Greene
"To imagine that we are not always in control of what we do is a frightening thought, but in fact it is the reality." -Robert Greene
"The human mind naturally freezes the relentless passage of time by presenting us with static images of people, our culture, and our own self-identity. But if we were truly sensitive to evolution, we would realize these are only passing shadows in a world of ceaseless flux." -Robert Greene
"Imagine a person who never develops these acting skills, whose face instantly grimaces when he dislikes what you say or cannot suppress a yawn when you fail to entertain him, who always speaks his mind, who completely goes his own way in his ideas and style, who acts the same whether he’s talking to his boss or to a child, and you have imagined a person who would be shunned, ridiculed, and despised." -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: Embrace your strangeness. Identify what makes you different. Fuse those things together and become an anomaly. Mastery, I: Discover Your Calling—The Life’s Task" -Robert Greene
"In any competitive environment in which there are winners or losers, the person who has the wider, more global perspective will inevitably prevail." -Robert Greene
"We are all in search of feeling more connected to reality…We indulge in drugs or alcohol, or engage in dangerous sports or risky behavior, just to wake ourselves up from the sleep of our daily existence and feel a heightened sense of connection to reality. In the end, however, the most satisfying and powerful way to feel this connection is through creative activity. Engaged in the creative process we feel more alive than ever, because we are making something and not merely consuming, masters of the small reality we create." -Robert Greene
"In other words, we do not have conscious access to the origins of our emotions and the moods they generate. Once we feel them, all we can do is try to interpret the emotion, translate it into language." -Robert Greene
"Chess contains the concentrated essence of life: First, because to win you have to be supremely patient and farseeing; and second, because the game is built on patterns, whole sequences of moves that have been played before and will be played again," -Robert Greene
"If you have no enemies, find a way to make them," -Robert Greene
"It must be considered that there is nothing more difficult to carry out, nor more doubtful of success, nor more dangerous to handle, than to initiate a new order of things. Niccolò Machiavelli, 1469-1527" -Robert Greene
"Increase your reaction time. This power comes through practice and repetition. When some event or interaction requires a response, you must train yourself to step back. This could mean physically removing yourself to a place where you can be alone and not feel any pressure to respond. Or it could mean writing that angry email but not sending it. You sleep on it for a day or two. You do not make phone calls or communicate while feeling some sudden emotion, particularly resentment. If you find yourself rushing to commit to people, to hire or be hired by them, step back and give it a day. Cool the emotions down. The longer you can take the better, because perspective comes with time. Consider this like resistance training—the longer you can resist reacting, the more mental space you have for actual reflection, and the stronger your mind will become." -Robert Greene
"Interdependence remains the law, independence a rare and often fatal exception. Better to place yourself in a position of mutual dependence, then, and to follow this critical law rather than look for its reversal. You will not have the unbearable pressure of being on top, and the master above you will in essence be your slave, for he will depend on you." -Robert Greene
"Interactions with people are the major source of emotional turmoil, but it doesn’t have to be that way. The problem is that we are continually judging people, wishing they were something that they are not. We want to change them. We want them to think and act a certain way, most often the way we think and act. And because this is not possible, because everyone is different, we are continually frustrated and upset. Instead, see other people as phenomena, as neutral as comets or plants. They simply exist. They come in all varieties, making life rich and interesting. Work with what they give you, instead of resisting and trying to change them. Make understanding people a fun game, the solving of puzzles. It is all part of the human comedy. Yes, people are irrational, but so are you. Make your acceptance of human nature as radical as possible. This will calm you down and help you observe people more dispassionately, understanding them on a deeper level. You will stop projecting your own emotions on to them. All of this will give you more balance and calmness, more mental space for thinking. Daily Law: Examine the faults you see in others and how they are in you as well." -Robert Greene
"In everyday life people can often do well at disguising their character flaws, but in times of stress or crisis these flaws can suddenly become very apparent." -Robert Greene
"Immersing yourself in details will combat the generalizing tendencies of the brain and bring you closer to reality." -Robert Greene
"if you’re in a boxing ring and the boxer punches you in the face, you don’t whine about the unfairness or the cruelty. No, that’s just part of the game." -Robert Greene
"Many harbor the illusion that science, dealing with facts as it does, is beyond the petty rivalries that trouble the rest of the world. Nikola Tesla was one of those. He believed science had nothing to do with politics, and claimed not to care for fame and riches. As he grew older, though, this ruined his scientific work. Not associated with any particular discovery, he could attract no investors to his many ideas. While he pondered great inventions for the future, others stole the patents he had already developed and got the glory for themselves. He wanted to do everything on his own, but merely exhausted and impoverished himself in the process." -Robert Greene
"The information in books is not tailored to your circumstances and individuality; it tends to be somewhat abstract. When you are young and have less experience of the world, this abstract knowledge is hard to put" -Robert Greene
"One day in 1885, the twenty-three-year old Henry Ford got his first look at the gas-powered engine, and it was instant love. Ford had apprenticed as a machinist and had worked on every conceivable device, but nothing could compare to his fascination with this new type of engine, one that created its own power. He envisioned a whole new kind of horseless carriage that would revolutionize transportation. He made it his Life’s Task to be the pioneer in developing such an automobile. Working the night shift at the Edison Illuminating Company as an engineer, during the day he would tinker with the new internal-combustion engine he was developing. He built a workshop in a shed behind his home and started constructing the engine from pieces of scrap metal he salvaged from anywhere he could find them. By 1896, working with friends who helped him build a carriage, he completed his first prototype, which he called the Quadricycle, and debuted it on the streets of Detroit. At the time there were many others working on automobiles with gas-powered engines. It was a ruthlessly competitive environment in which new companies died by the day. Ford’s Quadricycle looked nice and ran well, but it was too small and incomplete for large-scale production. And so he began work on a second automobile, thinking ahead to the production end of the process. A year later he completed it, and it was a marvel of design. Everything was geared toward simplicity and compactness. It was easy to drive and maintain. All that he needed was financial backing and sufficient capital to mass-produce it. To manufacture automobiles in the late 1890s was a daunting venture. It required a tremendous amount of capital and a complex business structure, considering all of the parts that went into production. Ford quickly found the perfect backer: William H. Murphy, one of the most prominent businessmen in Detroit. The new company was dubbed the Detroit Automobile Company, and all who were involved had high hopes. But problems soon arose. The car Ford had designed as a prototype needed to be reworked—the parts came from different places; some of them were deficient and far too heavy for his liking. He kept trying to refine the design to come closer to his ideal. But it was taking far too long, and Murphy and the stockholders were getting restless. In 1901, a year and a half after it had started operation, the board of directors dissolved the company. They had lost faith in Henry Ford." -Robert Greene
"Sooner or later something seems to call us onto a particular path. You may remember this something as a signal calling in childhood when an urge out of nowhere, a fascination, a peculiar turn of events struck like an annunciation: This is what I must do, this is what I’ve got to have. This is who I am. —James Hillman" -Robert Greene
"pay greater attention to those responses outside conscious control—a blush, an involuntary mirroring of some gesture of yours, an unusual shyness, even perhaps a flash of anger or resentment. All of these show that you are having an effect on a person who is open to your influence." -Robert Greene
"Your honesty is likely to offend people; it is much more prudent to tailor your words, telling people what they want to hear rather than the coarse and ugly truth of what you feel or think." -Robert Greene
"What makes your mind stronger, and more able to control your emotions, is internal discipline and toughness. No one can teach you this skill; you cannot learn it by reading about it. Like any discipline, it can come only through practice, experience, even a little suffering." -Robert Greene
"Piensa que siempre estás a punto de iniciar una batalla." -Robert Greene
"Siempre hay momentos en que el lugar del comandante no es la retaguardia con su estado mayor sino la vanguardia con sus tropas." -Robert Greene
"As they improved, the fighters would begin to tune him out, feeling like they already knew enough. Their egos would get in the way and they would stop learning." -Robert Greene
"Pero la fuente primaria de la inteligencia humana es el desarrollo de las neuronas espejo (ver aquí), lo que nos concede la aptitud de ponernos en los zapatos de otro e imaginar su experiencia." -Robert Greene
"But Masters inevitably possess another quality that complicates the work process: They are not easily satisfied by what they are doing. While able to feel excitement, they also feel doubt about the worthiness of their work. They have high internal standards. As they progress, they begin to detect flaws and difficulties in their original idea that they had not foreseen." -Robert Greene
"A good strategy to utilize is to see through the front they project. They inevitably try to cast a larger-than-life image, a mythic, intimidating quality; but in fact they are all too human, full of the same insecurities and weaknesses we all possess. Try to recognize these very human traits and demythologize them." -Robert Greene
"But this means that he will be disliked on account of his superiority; and if a man is to be liked, he must really be inferior in point of intellect. ARTHUR SCHOPENHAUER, 1788–1860" -Robert Greene
"The Way of the Samurai is in desperateness. Ten men or more cannot kill such a man. Common sense will not accomplish great things. Simply become insane and desperate." -Robert Greene
"The second factor is that almost all of us at some point in our lives have experienced moments of greater rationality. This often comes with what we shall call the maker’s mind-set. We have a project to get done, perhaps with a deadline. The only emotion we can afford is excitement and energy. Other emotions simply make it impossible to concentrate. Because we have to get results, we become exceptionally practical. We focus on the work—our mind calm, our ego not intruding. If people try to interrupt or infect us with emotions, we resent it. These moments—as fleeting as a few weeks or hours—reveal the rational self that is waiting to come out. It just requires some awareness and some practice." -Robert Greene
"Creating anything worthwhile is like a marathon, and you must train for it." -Robert Greene
"The Dimensional Mind has two essential requirements: one, a high level of knowledge about a field or subject; and two, the openness and flexibility to use this knowledge in new and original ways." -Robert Greene
"... it is far easier to avoid creating envy in the first place than to get rid of it once it is there, ..." -Robert Greene
"Trying to deny our self-absorbed nature, trying to pretend we are somehow more altruistic than others, make it impossible for us to transform ourselves." -Robert Greene
"ولذا فإن من المهم أن تبدأ في تعليم نفسك وتثقيفها من الآن. وعند قيامك بذلك يتعين أن تبقي في ذهنك مبدأً واحداً وهو: لا تميز أبداً بين الذين تدرسهم والذين تثق بهم. لا تثق بأي شخص ثقة كاملة، وادرس الجميع، بمن فيهم من الأصدقاء والأحبّة." -Robert Greene
"Never assume that the person you are dealing with is weaker or less important than you are. Some men are slow to take offense, which may make you misjudge the thickness of their skin, and fail to worry about insulting them. But should you offend their honor and their pride, they will overwhelm you with a violence that seems sudden and extreme given their slowness to anger. If you want to turn people down, it is best to do so politely and respectfully, even if you feel their request is impudent or their offer ridiculous. Never reject them with an insult until you know them better; you may be dealing with a Genghis Khan." -Robert Greene
"No good can ever come from deviating from the path that you were meant to follow" -Robert Greene
"Our skeptical, cynical attitudes can actually cut us off from so many interesting questions, and from reality itself." -Robert Greene
"First and foremost, a Siren must distinguish herself from other women. She is by nature a rare thing, mythic, only one to a group; she is also a valuable prize to be wrested away from other men. Cleopatra made herself different through her sense of high drama; the Empress Josephine Bonaparte’s device was her extreme languorousness; Marilyn Monroe’s was her little-girl quality. Physicality offers the best opportunities here, since a Siren is preeminently a sight to behold. A highly feminine and sexual presence, even to the point of caricature, will quickly differentiate you, since most women lack the confidence to project such an image." -Robert Greene
"somos verdadeiramente responsáveis por grande parte do que acontece conosco. As pessoas passivas criam um panorama mental um tanto árido. Em consequência de suas poucas experiências e iniciativas, todos os tipos de conexões do cérebro perecem por falta de uso. Para se opor à tendência de passividade dos tempos atuais, é preciso se empenhar para ver até que ponto é possível controlar as próprias circunstâncias e criar o tipo de mente almejada – não por meio de alucinógenos nem de medicamentos, mas em consequência da ação." -Robert Greene
"Hide your intentions not by closing up (with the risk of appearing secretive, and making people suspicious) but by talking endlessly about your desires and goals—just not your real ones." -Robert Greene
"Napoleon’s minister Talleyrand was a master at taking people into his confidence by revealing some apparent secret. This feigned confidence—a decoy—would then elicit a real confidence on the other person’s part." -Robert Greene
"Maintenez votre entourage dans l’incertitude et le flou en ne révélant jamais le but qui se cache derrière vos actions. S’ils n’ont aucune idée de ce que vous prévoyez, ils ne pourront pas préparer de défense. Guidez-les assez loin dans une autre direction, enveloppez-les d’un écran de fumée et quand ils perceront à jour vos desseins, il sera trop tard." -Robert Greene
"Stop Being So Nice Everyone carries a shadow, and the less it is embodied in the individual’s conscious life, the blacker and denser it is. —Carl Jung" -Robert Greene
"Do not be led astray by a false sense of honor,' said the Athenians. 'Honor often brings men to ruin when they are faced with an obvious danger that somehow affects their pride." -Robert Greene
"We must learn to develop ourselves. At the same time, it is a world teeming with critical problems and opportunities, best solved and seized by entrepreneurs—individuals or small groups who think independently, adapt quickly, and possess unique perspectives. Your individualized, creative skills will be at a premium." -Robert Greene
"Leaders who try to dissolve that distance through a false chumminess gradually lose the ability to inspire loyalty, fear, or love. Instead they elicit contempt." -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: Concentrate on maintaining a high sense of purpose, and the success will flow to you naturally. The Laws of Human Nature, 13: Advance with a Sense of Purpose—The Law of Aimlessness" -Robert Greene
"Tienen un don —facilidad de palabra, a menudo— que los distingue de la muchedumbre. Expresan una visión." -Robert Greene
"Never make it too clear what you are doing or about to do." -Robert Greene
"People who rush to the support of others tend to gain little respect in the process, for their help is so easily obtained, while those who stand back find themselves besieged with supplicants. Their aloofness is powerful, and everyone wants them on their side." -Robert Greene
"What makes us go astray in the first place is that we are unattuned to the present moment, insensitive to the circumstances. We are listening to our own thoughts, reacting to things that happened in the past, applying theories and ideas that we digested long ago but that have nothing to do with our predicament in the present. More books, theories, and thinking only make the problem worse." -Robert Greene
"Mack había sido capturado una vez y forzado a pasar tres años en Francia, donde había estudiado el estilo bélico de Napoleón." -Robert Greene
"This cycle is bound to happen again and again, is part of human nature. The irrational simply, just changes it’s look and fashions." -Robert Greene
"No one can argue with a demonstrated proof. As Baltasar Gracián remarks, 'The truth is generally seen, rarely heard." -Robert Greene
"human tongue is a beast that few can master. It strains constantly to break out of its cage, and if it is not tamed, it will run" -Robert Greene
"Better to have others depend on you out of fear of the consequences of losing you than out of love of your company." -Robert Greene
"Muestra heroísmo para conseguir carisma de por vida. A la inversa, el menor signo de cobardía o timidez arruinará el carisma que tengas." -Robert Greene
"Everyone has a thumbscrew, a gap in the castle wall. Once found, it is a thumbscrew you can turn to your advantage." -Robert Greene
"La gente está cada vez más aislada, y ansía experiencias colectivas. Permite que tu ferviente y contagiosa fe, en prácticamente todo, le dé algo en qué creer." -Robert Greene
"What gets us into trouble in the realm of power is often our own overreaction to the moves of our enemies and rivals. That overreaction creates problems we would have avoided had we been more reasonable." -Robert Greene
"A priest asked the dying Spanish statesman and general Ramón Maria Narváez. (1800-1868), 'Does your Excellency forgive all your enemies ? 'I do not have to forgive my enemies,' answered Narváez, 'I have had them all shot." -Robert Greene
"Entre sus varios seres posibles, cada hombre siempre encuentra uno que es su ser genuino y auténtico. La voz que lo llama a ese ser auténtico es lo que denominamos 'vocación'. Pero la mayoría de los hombres se dedican a silenciar esa voz de la vocación y negarse a oírla. Consiguen hacer ruido en ellos [...] para distraer su atención a fin de no escucharla; y se defraudan sustituyendo su ser genuino por un falso curso de vida. –JOSÉ ORTEGA Y GASSET" -Robert Greene
"Today we have reached the ultimate point in the evolution of seduction. Now more than ever, force or brutality of any kind is discouraged. All areas of social life require the ability to persuade people in a way that does not offend or impose itself. Forms of seduction can be found everywhere, blending male and female strategies. Advertisements insinuate, the soft sell dominates. If we are to change people’s opinions—and affecting opinion is basic to seduction—we must act in subtle, subliminal ways." -Robert Greene
"The Laws will teach you how to identify these types in advance, which is your greatest defense against them." -Robert Greene
"and in games you do not judge your opponents by their intentions but by the effect of their actions." -Robert Greene
"Everybody steals in commerce and industry. I’ve stolen a lot myself. But I know how to steal. Thomas Edison, 1847-1931" -Robert Greene
"The Laws will help you avoid falling into this trap by revealing that people are generally dealing with emotions and issues that have deep roots. They’re experiencing some desires and disappointments that predate you by years and decades. You cross their path at a particular moment and become the convenient target of their anger or frustration." -Robert Greene
"There is much to be known, life is short, and life is not life without knowledge. It is therefore an excellent device to acquire knowledge from everybody. Thus, by the sweat of another’s brow, you win the reputation of being an oracle." -Robert Greene
"la coqueta emite señales contradictorias que estimulan respuestas contradictorias, hundiendo a la víctima en la confusión." -Robert Greene
"وكلما زاد كلام كوريولانوس كان يظهر ضعفه أكثر، كشخص غير قادر على السيطرة على كلماته، وبذلك أظهر أنه لا يستطيع السيطرة على نفسه وبالتالي فهو غير جدير بالاحترام. ولو قلل كوريولانوس من كلامه، لما كان لدى الناس سبب للشعور بالغيظ وجرح مشاعرهم، ولما عرفوا أحاسيسه الحقيقية، ولحافظ على هالة القوة التي كانت تحيط بشخصيته، ولتم انتخابه قنصلًا بالتأكيد، ولتمكن من تحقيق أهدافه المعادية للديمقراطية." -Robert Greene
"Understand this: In the game of power, the people you associate with are critical. The risk of associating with infectors is that you will waste valuable time and energy trying to free yourself. Through a kind of guilt by association, you will also suffer in the eyes of others. Never underestimate the dangers of infection." -Robert Greene
"A través de una exposición continua a la gente y tratando de pensar dentro de ella podemos obtener una sensación creciente de su perspectiva, pero esto requiere un esfuerzo de nuestra parte." -Robert Greene
"You must alter your very concept of creativity and try to see it from a new angle. Most often, people associate creativity with something intellectual, a particular way of thinking. The truth is that creative activity is one that involves the entire self—our emotions, our levels of energy, our characters, and our minds." -Robert Greene
"Desire often creates paradoxical effects. The more you want something, the more you chase after it, the more it eludes you. The more interest you show, the more you repel the object of your desire. This is because your interest is too strong — it makes people awkward, even fearful. Uncontrollable desire makes you seem weak, unworthy, pathetic." -Robert Greene
"This longing to commit a madness stays with us throughout our lives. Who has not, when standing with someone by an abyss or high up on a tower, had a sudden impulse to push the other over? And how is it that we hurt those we love although we know that remorse will follow? Our whole being is nothing but a fight against the dark forces within ourselves. To live is to war with trolls in heart and soul. To write is to sit in judgment on oneself. —Henrik Ibsen" -Robert Greene
"Puedes jugar al gato y al ratón con él, primero pareciendo interesado y retrocediendo después, para incitarlo activamente a que te siga a tu telaraña. Hagas lo que hagas y cualquiera que sea el tipo de seducción que practiques, evita a toda costa la tendencia natural a hostigar a tu blanco. No cometas el error de creer que perderá interés a menos que lo presiones, o que un torrente de atención le agradará. Demasiada atención prematura en realidad sólo sugerirá inseguridad, y despertará dudas sobre tus motivos. Peor todavía, no dará a tu objetivo margen para imaginar. Da un paso atrás; permite que las ideas que suscitas lleguen a él como si fueran propias." -Robert Greene
"The Laws of Human Nature is designed to immerse you in all aspects of human behavior and illuminate its root causes. If you let it guide you, it will radically alter how you perceive people and your entire approach to dealing with them. It will also radically change how you see yourself." -Robert Greene
"What withdraws, what becomes scarce, suddenly seems to deserve our respect and honor." -Robert Greene
"When you meet a swordsman, draw your sword: Do not recite poetry to one who is not a poet. FROM A CH’AN BUDDHIST CLASSIC, QUOTED IN THUNDER IN THE SKY, TRANSLATED BY THOMAS CLEARY, 1993" -Robert Greene
"Petulance is not power, it is a sign of helplessness. People may temporarily be cowed by your tantrums, but in the end they lose respect for you. They also realize they can easily undermine a person with so little self-control." -Robert Greene
"words have that insidious ability to be interpreted according to the other person’s mood and insecurities. Even the best argument has no solid foundation, for we have all come to distrust the slippery nature of words. And days after agreeing with someone, we often revert to our old opinion out of sheer habit." -Robert Greene
"people never do something just once. They might try to excuse themselves, to say they lost their heads in the moment, but you can be sure they will repeat whatever foolishness they did on another occasion, compelled by their character and habits." -Robert Greene
"Oysters open completely when the moon is full; and when the crab sees one it throws a piece of stone or seaweed into it and the oyster cannot close again so that it serves the crab for meat. Such is the fate of him who opens his mouth too much and thereby puts himself at the mercy of the listener. Leonardo da Vinci, 1452-1519" -Robert Greene
"After all, you might argue, we are now so sophisticated and technologically advanced, so progressive and enlightened; we have moved well beyond our primitive roots; we are in the process of rewriting our nature. But the truth is in fact the opposite—we have never been more in the thrall of human nature and its destructive potential than now. And by ignoring this fact, we are playing with fire." -Robert Greene
"Finally, it is worth cultivating moments in life in which we feel immense satisfaction and happiness divorced from our own success or achievements. This happens commonly when we find ourselves in a beautiful landscape—the mountains, the sea, a forest. We do not feel the prying, comparing eyes of others, the need to have more attention or to assert ourselves. We are simply in awe of what we see, and it is intensely therapeutic. This can also occur when we contemplate the immensity of the universe, the uncanny set of circumstances that had to come together for us to be born, the vast reaches of time before us and after us. These are sublime moments, and as far removed from the pettiness and poisons of envy as possible." -Robert Greene
"To make a discovery, to invent something that connects with the public, to fashion a work of art that is meaningful, inevitably requires time and effort. This often entails years of experimentation, various setbacks and failures, and the need to maintain a high level of focus. You must have patience and faith that what you are doing will yield something important." -Robert Greene
"Being around people stirs up our anxieties and insecurities as to how others perceive us." -Robert Greene
"Los débiles siempre se benefician con las luchas entre los poderosos'." -Robert Greene
"The whole law of human existence consists in nothing other than a man’s always being able to bow before the immeasurably great. If people are deprived of the immeasurably great, they will not live and will die in despair. The immeasurable and infinite are as necessary for man as the small planet he inhabits. —Fyodor Dostoyevsky" -Robert Greene
"It is occasionally wiser to imitate the court jester, who plays the fool but knows he is smarter than the king." -Robert Greene
"One final but very subtle nonverbal means of asserting dominance in a relationship comes through the symptom. One partner suddenly develops headaches or some other illness, or starts drinking, or generally falls into a negative pattern of behavior. This forces the other side to play by their rules, to tend to their weaknesses. It is the willful use of sympathy to gain power and it is extremely effective." -Robert Greene
"If you are doing something primarily for money and without a real emotional commitment, it will translate into something that lacks a soul and that has no connection to you. You may not see this, but you can be sure that the public will feel it and that they will receive your work in the same lackluster spirit it was created in." -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: If you see such looks in the first few encounters with someone, and they happen more than once, be on the lookout for a dangerous envier entering your life." -Robert Greene
"People do not want truth and honesty, no matter how much we hear such nonsense endlessly repeated. They want their imaginations to be stimulated and to be taken beyond their banal circumstances. They want fantasy and objects of desire to covet and grope after." -Robert Greene
"Instead of relying on friends, Sung used his enemies, one after the other, transforming them into far more reliable subjects. While a friend expects more and more favors, and seethes with jealousy, these former enemies expected nothing and got everything. A man suddenly spared the guillotine is a grateful man indeed, and will go to the ends of the earth for the man who has pardoned him. In time, these former enemies became Sung’s most trusted friends." -Robert Greene
"Animals feel fear for a brief time, then it is gone. We dwell on our fears, intensifying them and making them last well past the moment of danger, even to the point of feeling constant anxiety." -Robert Greene
"We are taught early on in life that those who are outwardly combative and aggressive pay a social price: unpopularity and isolation. These values of harmony and cooperation are perpetuated in subtle and not-so-subtle ways—through books on how to be successful in life; through the pleasant, peaceful exteriors that those who have gotten ahead in the world present to the public; through notions of correctness that saturate the public space." -Robert Greene
"... circumstances never repeat themselves exactly." -Robert Greene
"Our brain developed to its present size because of the complex operations of our hands." -Robert Greene
"On the other hand, an attack on another man’s reputation is a potent weapon, particularly when you have less power than he does." -Robert Greene
"Image: The Racehorse. From up close we would see the strain, the effort to control the horse, the labored, painful breathing. But from the distance where we sit and watch, it is all gracefulness, flying through the air. Keep others at a distance and they will only see the ease with which you move." -Robert Greene
"Reading books and materials that go beyond what is required is always a good starting point. Being exposed to ideas in the wide world, you will tend to develop a hunger for more and more knowledge;" -Robert Greene
"Do not underestimate the power of Tafari. He creeps like a mouse but he has jaws like a loin. - Balcha of Sidamo's last words before entering the monastery." -Robert Greene
"Boldness directs attention outward and keeps the illusion alive. It never induces awkwardness or embarrassment. And so we admire the bold, and prefer to be around them, because their self-confidence infects us and draws us outside our own realm of inwardness and reflection." -Robert Greene
"Reading and thinking about [new ideas] won't work. You must put them into effect." -Robert Greene
"At the Congress of Vienna (1814–1815) he did his spying in other ways: He would blurt out what seemed to be a secret (actually something he had made up), then watch his listeners’ reactions. He might tell a gathering of diplomats, for instance, that a reliable source had revealed to him that the czar of Russia was planning to arrest his top general for treason. By watching the diplomats’ reactions to this made-up story, he would know which ones were most excited by the weakening of the Russian army—perhaps their governments had designs on Russia? As Baron von Stetten said, 'Monsieur Talleyrand fires a pistol into the air to see who will jump out the window." -Robert Greene
"If, like Jung, you are somewhat confused and ambivalent about your direction, it can be useful to choose someone who can help you gain some clarity about what you want, someone important in the field who might not fit perfectly with your tastes." -Robert Greene
"It is sometimes best to leave things alone. If there is something you want but cannot have, show contempt for it. The less interest you reveal, the more superior you seem." -Robert Greene
"Primero, debes tener una presencia tan desbordante que llene la mente de tu objetivo como un close-up llena la pantalla. Debes poseer un estilo o presencia que te distinga de los demás. Sé vago e irreal, pero no distante ni ausente: no se trata de que las personas no puedan contemplarte ni recordarte. Tienen que verte en su mente cuando no estás con ellas." -Robert Greene
"تذكر ان ثروتك الوحيدة هي الجهد و الوقت و كل لحظة تهدرها في شئون الاخرين تخصم من ثروتك" -Robert Greene
"[... You] will tend to deny that you ever experience any envy, at least strong enough to act on. you are simply not being honest with yourself." -Robert Greene
"In fact, whenever you must learn a new skill or alter your career path later in life, you reconnect with that youthful, adventurous part of yourself." -Robert Greene
"Sudden Gains or Losses Sudden success or winnings can be very dangerous. Neurologically, chemicals are released in the brain that give a powerful jolt of arousal and energy, leading to the desire to repeat this experience." -Robert Greene
"Your timidity infects people with awkward energy, elicits embarrassment. Doubt springs up on all sides. Boldness destroys such gaps." -Robert Greene
"Comprenda que, si bien la audacia no es natural, tampoco lo es la timidez. Ésta no es sino un hábito adquirido, adoptado a partir de un deseo de evitar conflictos. Si la timidez lo domina, extírpela." -Robert Greene
"On the other hand, far more people suddenly feel entitled to treat others differently now that they have the power. That is what happened to Lyndon Johnson once he attained a position of ultimate security in the Senate, as Senate majority leader. Tired of the years he had to spend playing the perfect courtier, he now relished the power he had to upset or humiliate those who had crossed him in the past. Now he would go up to such a senator and make a point of talking only to his assistant. Or he would get up and leave the floor when a senator he did not like was giving an important speech, making other senators follow him. In general there are always signs of these character traits in the past if you look closely enough (Johnson had revealed such nasty signs in the earliest parts of his political career), but, more important, you need to take notice of what people reveal once they are in power. So often we think that power has changed people, when in fact it simply reveals more of who they are." -Robert Greene
"Be like a slippery ball that cannot be held: Let no one know what gets to you, or where your weaknesses lie." -Robert Greene
"En Japón hay un dicho popular que reza: 'Tada yori takai mono wa nai', que significa: 'Nada es más caro que algo que se da gratis'. The Unspoken Way, MICHIHIRO MATSUMOTO, 1988" -Robert Greene
"Once you step into a fight that is not of your own choosing, you lose all initiative. The combatants’ interests become your interests; you become their tool. Learn to control yourself, to restrain your natural tendency to take sides and join the fight. Be friendly and charming to each of the combatants, then step back as they collide. With every battle they grow weaker, while you grow stronger with every battle you avoid." -Robert Greene
"Even while you know you are practicing a kind of deception on yourself, act like a king. You are likely to be treated as one." -Robert Greene
"you have more to fear from friends than from enemies. If you have no enemies, find a way to make them." -Robert Greene
"When the job you are doing is neither above nor below your talents but at your level, you are neither exhausted nor bored and depressed. You suddenly have new energy and creativity." -Robert Greene
"If deception is the most potent weapon in your arsenal, then patience in all things is your crucial shield. Patience will protect you from making moronic blunders. Like mastering your emotions, patience is a skill—it does not come naturally." -Robert Greene
"By being unabashedly open you make yourself so predictable and familiar that it is almost impossible to respect or fear you, and power will not accrue to a person who cannot inspire such emotions." -Robert Greene
"Look wider and think further ahead' must be your motto." -Robert Greene
"Preferiría ser mendiga y soltera, que reina y casada. REINA ISABEL I, 1533-1603" -Robert Greene
"Remember: In the beginning, make yourself not scarce but omnipresent. Only what is seen, appreciated, and loved will be missed in its absence." -Robert Greene
"Some 2,600 years ago the ancient Greek poet Pindar wrote, 'Become who you are by learning who you are." -Robert Greene
"Remember the following: Never take your position for granted and never let any favors you receive go to your" -Robert Greene
"Most of us spend our lives avoiding the thought of death. Instead, the inevitability of death should be continually on our minds. Understanding the shortness of life fills us with a sense of purpose and urgency to realize our goals. Training ourselves to confront and accept this reality makes it easier to manage the inevitable setbacks, separations, and crises in life. [...] By becoming deeply aware of our mortality, we intensify our experience of every aspect of life." -Robert Greene
"This should not upset you but liberate you. The book will teach you to stop taking personally their insinuating comments, shows of coldness, or moments of irritation. The more you grasp this, the easier it will be to react not with your emotions but rather with the desire to understand where their behavior might come from." -Robert Greene
"Keep withdrawing, surprising, and stimulating the chase. As long as you do, you have the power." -Robert Greene
"Ideas are things to play with." -Robert Greene
"Y la emoción más común de todas es el deseo de placer y la evasión del dolor." -Robert Greene
"Rationality and ethical qualities must be achieved through awareness and effort. They do not come naturally. They come through a maturation process." -Robert Greene
"Pense nos idiotas da mesma forma que em crianças ou animais domésticos - não são suficientemente importantes para afectar o sue equilíbrio mental." -Robert Greene
"Quien pretende ser bueno en todo momento, está destinado a la perdición en medio del enorme número de quienes no lo son'." -Robert Greene
"This could be a project you work on outside your job. It is not the number of hours you put in but the intensity and consistent effort you bring to it." -Robert Greene
"There may be no more Sun Kings but there are still plenty of people who believe the sun revolves around them." -Robert Greene
"We can also try to look at the world as if we were seeing things for the last time—the people around us, the everyday sights and sounds, the hum of the traffic, the sound of the birds, the view outside our window. Let us imagine these things still going on without us, then suddenly feel ourselves brought back to life—those same details will now appear in a new light, not taken for granted or half perceived. Let the impermanence of all life forms sink in. The stability and solidity of the things we see are mere illusions. We must not be afraid of the pangs of sadness that ensue from this perception. The tightness of our emotions, usually so wound up around our own needs and concerns, is now opening up to the world and to the poignancy of life itself, and we should welcome this." -Robert Greene
"Los científicos han demostrado que, por el contrario, es muy plástico: que nuestros pensamientos determinan nuestro paisaje mental." -Robert Greene
"If you can get other people to dig their own graves, why sweat yourself? Pickpockets work this to perfection. The key to picking a pocket is knowing which pocket contains the wallet. Experienced pickpockets often ply their trade in train stations and other places where there is a clearly marked sign reading BEWARE OF PICKPOCKETS. Passersby seeing the sign invariably feel for their wallet to make sure it is still there. For the watching pickpockets, this is like shooting fish in a barrel." -Robert Greene
"Emotions originate as physical arousal designed to capture our attention and cause us to take notice of something around us. They begin as chemical reactions and sensations that we must then translate into words to try to understand." -Robert Greene
"Tenga especial cuidado con el sarcasmo: la satisfacción momentánea que obtenga con sus cáusticas palabras siempre será menor que el precio que deberá pagar por ellas." -Robert Greene
"Emotions originate as physical arousal designed to capture our attention and cause us to take notice of something around us. They begin as chemical reactions and sensations that we must then translate into words to try to understand" -Robert Greene
"The leaders of such past generations resonate through history and take on a kind of mythic hue the more time passes. By associating yourself with those figures or times, you can give added weight to whatever movement or innovation you are promoting. You take some of the emotionally loaded symbols and styles of that historical period and adapt them, giving the impression that what you are attempting in the present is a more perfect and progressive version of what happened in the past. In doing this, think in grand, mythic terms." -Robert Greene
"If you're on the false path, get off. Find energy in rebellion." -Robert Greene
"Most men are ruled by the heart, not the head. Their plans are vague, and when they meet obstacles they improvise. But improvisation will only get you as far as the next crisis, and is never a substitute for thinking several steps ahead and planning to the end." -Robert Greene
"Leonardo ansiaba aprender todas esas habilidades, pero pronto descubrió algo en sí mismo: no podía hacer sencillamente lo que se le encargara; debía convertirlo en algo propio, inventar en vez de imitar al maestro." -Robert Greene
"Right now, you are living off the fruits of millions of people in the past who have made your life incomparably easier through their strugglesand inventions. You have benefited from an education that embodies the wisdom of thousands of years of experience. It is so easy to takethis all for granted, to imagine that it all just came about naturally and that you are entitled to have all of these powers. That is the view ofspoiled children, and you must see any signs of such an attitude within you as shameful. This world needs constant improvement and renewal.You are here not merely to gratify your impulses and consume what others have made but to make and contribute as well, to serve a higherpurpose." -Robert Greene
"You are one of a kind. Your combination of skills and experience is not replicable. That represents true freedom and the ultimate power we humans can possess." -Robert Greene
"Falling in love is a matter not of magic but of psychology. Once you understand your target’s psychology, and strategize to suit it, you will be better able to cast a 'magical' spell. A seducer sees love not as sacred but as warfare, where all is fair." -Robert Greene
"وفي آخر الأمر فإن الحياة قصيرة، والفرص قليلة، وليس لديك سوى طاقة محدودة تعتمد عليها وتسحب من رصيدها." -Robert Greene
"If the scapegoat appears too weak and his punishment too cruel, you may end up the victim of your own device." -Robert Greene
"Being in a group does not stimulate independent reasoning but rather the intense desire to belong." -Robert Greene
"You will also become humbler, realizing you’re not superior to others in the way you had imagined. This will not make you feel guilty or weighed down by your self-awareness, but quite the opposite. You will accept yourself as a complete individual, embracing both the good and the bad, dropping your falsified self-image as a saint. You will feel relieved of your hypocrisies and free to be more yourself. People will be drawn to this quality in you." -Robert Greene
"Let us call this sensation mastery—the feeling that we have a greater command of reality, other people, and ourselves. Although it might be something we experience for only a short while, for others—Masters of their field—it becomes their way of life, their way of seeing the world." -Robert Greene
"So much of our obsessive, internal thought process tends to disconnect us from the world." -Robert Greene
"quienes son capaces de prever por adelantado y planear con paciencia para lograr que sus planes den sus frutos tienen un poder cercano al de los dioses." -Robert Greene
"Second, learn to take advantage of other people’s work to further your own cause. Time is precious and life is short. If you try to do it all on your own, you run yourself ragged, waste energy, and burn yourself out. It is far better to conserve your forces, pounce on the work others have done, and find a way to make it your own." -Robert Greene
"The same should apply to an entrepreneurial venture. Mistakes and failures are precisely your means of education. They tell you about your own inadequacies." -Robert Greene
"La gente de tu tipo gravitará hacia ti, se identificará contigo, compartirá tu alegría o tristeza. La atracción debe ser insconsciente, y no han de transmitirla tus palabras sino tu pose, tu actitud." -Robert Greene
"Your first task is to look at those emotions that are continually infecting your ideas and decisions. Learn to question yourself: Why this anger or resentment? Where does this incessant need for attention come from? Under such scrutiny, your emotions will lose their hold on you." -Robert Greene
"Genuinely innocent people may still be playing for power, and are often horribly effective at the game, since they are not hindered by reflection. Once again, those who make a show or display of innocence are the least innocent of all." -Robert Greene
"Los hombres son más prestos a devolver un agravio que un favor, porque la gratitud es una carga y la venganza un placer. TÁCITO, ca. 55-120 d.C." -Robert Greene
"You will also want a degree of flexibility built into the process. At certain moments you reassess your progress and adjust the various goals as necessary, constantly learning from experience and adapting and improving your original objective." -Robert Greene
"The person in peak-experiences feels himself, more than other times, to be the responsible, active, creating center of his activities and of his perceptions. He feels more like a prime-mover, more self-determined (rather than caused, determined, helpless, dependent, passive, weak, bossed). He feels himself to be his own boss, fully responsible, fully volitional, with more free-will than at other times, master of his fate, an agent. —Abraham Maslow" -Robert Greene
"Weakness is no sin, and can even become a strength if you learn how to play it right." -Robert Greene
"The power of demonstrating your idea is that your opponents do not get defensive, and are therefore more open to persuasion. Making them literally and physically feel your meaning is infinitely more powerful than argument." -Robert Greene
"This intense connection and desire allows them to withstand the pain of the process—the self-doubts, the tedious hours of practice and study, the inevitable setbacks, the endless barbs from the envious. They develop a resiliency and confidence that others lack." -Robert Greene
"Espiritualiza tu guerra. Cada día enfrentas batallas: ésta es la realidad de todas las criaturas en su lucha por sobrevivir. Pero tu mayor batalla es contigo mism@: tus debilidades, tus emociones, tu falta de resolución para llevar las cosas hasta su término. Debes declarar una guerra incesante contra ti. Como guerrer@ en la vida, acepta el combate y el conflicto como medios para ponerte a prueba, mejorar tus habilidades y aumentar tu valor, experiencia y seguridad en ti mism@. En lugar de reprimir tus dudas y temores, debes eliminarlos, trabar batalla con ellos. Tú" -Robert Greene
"The court imagined itself the pinnacle of refinement, but underneath its glittering surface a cauldron of dark emotions - greed, envy, lust, hatred - boiled and simmered. Our world today similarly imagines itself the pinnacle of fairness, yet the same ugly emotions still stir within us, as they have forever." -Robert Greene
"The famous seventeenth-century Ming painter Chou Yung relates a story that altered his behavior forever. Late one winter afternoon he set out to visit a town that lay across the river from his own town. He was bringing some important books and papers with him and had commissioned a young boy to help him carry them. As the ferry neared the other side of the river, Chou Yung asked the boatman if they would have time to get to the town before its gates closed, since it was a mile away and night was approaching. The boatman glanced at the boy, and at the bundle of loosely tied papers and books—'Yes,' he replied, 'if you do not walk too fast.' As they started out, however, the sun was setting. Afraid of being locked out of the town at night, prey to local bandits, Chou and the boy walked faster and faster, finally breaking into a run. Suddenly the string around the papers broke and the documents scattered on the ground. It took them many minutes to put the packet together again, and by the time they had reached the city gates, it was too late." -Robert Greene
"Powerful people impress and intimidate by saying less. The more you say, the more likely you are to say something foolish." -Robert Greene
"Deception is a developed art of civilization and the most potent weapon in the game of power." -Robert Greene
"People do not advertise their rigidity. You will only trip up against it if you try to introduce a new idea or procedure. Some in the group—the hyper-rigid—will become irritable, even panicky at the thought of any kind of change. If you press your case with logic and reason, you will tend to make them even more defensive and resistant." -Robert Greene
"The moment that you rest, thinking that you have attained the level you desire, a part of your mind enters a phase of decay." -Robert Greene
"And then by the fifth chapter, something unexpected happened. The fifth chapter is about the creative process itself. And the idea is that once you do enough work on a project, enough preparation, and you’ve had all of these months of experience delving into the subject, you often reach a state of creativity where ideas come to you out of nowhere. And suddenly this was happening to me." -Robert Greene
"There is no good and bad, there are only circumstances." -Robert Greene
"Periodically return to your original vision and imagine the immense satisfaction you will have when it comes to fruition." -Robert Greene
"Without any visual cues or any action on the part of others, we can place ourselves inside their minds and imagine what they might be thinking." -Robert Greene
"Do not be naive: At this very moment, while you are slaving away on some project, there are vultures circling above trying to figure out a way to survive and even thrive off your creativity. It is useless to complain about this, or to wear yourself ragged with bitterness, as Tesla did. Better to protect yourself and join the game. Once you have established a power base, become a vulture yourself, and save yourself a lot of time and energy." -Robert Greene
"فلا تضيع زمناً ثميناً، ولا راحة ذهنك، على قضايا الآخرين - فذلك ثمن أعلى من اللازم فلا تدفعه." -Robert Greene
"Power depends on the ability to fill a void ..." -Robert Greene
"In ancient times, many great leaders, such as Alexander the Great and Julius Caesar, felt that they were descended from gods and part divine. Such self-belief would translate into high levels of confidence [... thus,] a self-fulling prophecy. You do not need to indulge in such grandiose thoughts, but feeling that you are destined for something great or important will give you a degree of resilience when people oppose or resist you. [...] You will continually try new things, even taking risks, confident in your ability to bounce back from failures and feeling destined to succeed." -Robert Greene
"Remake yourself into a character of power. Working on yourself like clay should be one your greatest and most pleasurable life tasks. It makes you in essence an artist - an artist creating yourself." -Robert Greene
"Progress and technology have not rewired us; they have merely altered the forms of our emotions and the type of irrationality that comes with them." -Robert Greene
"Ask more of them. Expect them to work like adults. Quietly alter the spirit with which things are done. Emphasize efficiency: anybody can be efficient (it isn’t a question of talent), efficiency breeds success, and success raises morale. Once the spirit and personality of the group start to shift, everything else will fall into place." -Robert Greene
"But if, to avoid the taint of power, you attempt to treat everyone equally and fairly, you will confront the problem that some people do certain things better than others. Treating everyone equally means ignoring their differences, elevating the less skillful and suppressing those who excel. Again, many of those who behave this way are actually deploying another power strategy, redistributing people’s rewards in a way that they determine." -Robert Greene
"Patience is bitter, but its fruit is sweet. —Aristotle" -Robert Greene
"Como o controle das suas emoções, a paciência é uma arte – ela não surge naturalmente. Mas nada quando se trata de poder é natural; poder é a coisa mais divina no mundo natural. E paciência é a suprema virtude dos deuses, que nada possuem a não ser tempo. Tudo de bom acontecerá – a grama crescerá de novo se você lhe der tempo e prever antecipadamente várias etapas no futuro. A" -Robert Greene
"Think Like a Writer" -Robert Greene
"People are more complicated than the masks they wear in society" -Robert Greene
"We constantly feel emotions, and they continually infect our thinking, making us veer toward thoughts that please us and soothe our egos. It is impossible to not have our inclinations and feelings somehow involved in what we think. Rational people are aware of this and through introspection and effort are able, to some extent, to subtract emotions from their thinking and counteract their effect. Irrational people have no such awareness. They rush into action without carefully considering the ramifications and consequences." -Robert Greene
"وهناك سبب آخر لجعلك تخفي طرقك المختصرة وأحابيلك: وهو أنك عندما تترك هذه المعلومات تخرج إلى العلن فإنك تعطي الناس أفكاراً يمكن أن يستخدموها ضدك، فَتَفْقِدُ مزايا الاحتفاظ بالصمت." -Robert Greene
"Your first impulse should always be to find the evidence that disconfirms your most cherished beliefs and those of others. That is true science." -Robert Greene
"If we don’t try too much in life, if we limit our circle of action, we can give ourselves the illusion of control." -Robert Greene
"Ve las cosas como son, no como tus emociones las colorean. En la estrategia debes ver tus reacciones emocionales a los hechos como una especie de enfermedad por curar." -Robert Greene
"Anger is the most destructive of emotional responses, for it clouds your vision the most. It also has a ripple effect that invariably makes situations less controllable and heightens your enemy’s resolve. If you are trying to destroy an enemy who has hurt you, far better to keep him off-guard by feigning friendliness than showing your anger." -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: What’s something you’ve always felt a pull toward? Dive deep into it today. Mastery, I: Discover Your Calling—The Life’s Task" -Robert Greene
"What has worth is worth paying for. By paying your own way you stay clear of gratitude, guilt, and deceit. It is also often wise to pay the full price—there is no cutting corners with excellence." -Robert Greene
"Excuses satisfy no one and apologies make everyone uncomfortable. The mistake does not vanish with an apology; it deepens and festers. Better to cut it off instantly, distract attention from yourself, and focus attention on a convenient scapegoat before people have time to ponder your responsibility or your possible incompetence." -Robert Greene
"Use this tactic in the following manner: Hide your intentions not by closing up (with the risk of appearing secretive, and making people suspicious) but by talking endlessly about your desires and goals—just not your real ones. You will kill three birds with one stone: You appear friendly, open, and trusting; you conceal your intentions; and you send your rivals on time-consuming wild-goose chases." -Robert Greene
"And just when you thought you had this fluid, larger-than-life woman, she would turn distant or angry, making it clear that everything was on her terms. You never possessed Cleopatra, you worshiped her. In this way a woman who had been exiled and destined for an early death managed to turn it all around and rule Egypt for close to twenty years." -Robert Greene
"ولكن اللسان البشري وحش لا يستطيع السيطرة عليه إلاَّ قليلون." -Robert Greene
"tienen una mirada penetrante que perturba las emociones de sus objetivos, ejerciendo fuerza sin palabras ni actos. Los ojos del carismático nunca indican temor ni nervios." -Robert Greene
"Aprende a ejercer el hechizo del en- cantador apuntando a las debilidades primarias de la gente: vanidad y amor propio." -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: Be brutally honest with yourself, aware of how your need to fit in can shape and warp your thinking. Does that anxiety or sense of outrage that we feel come completely from within, or is it inspired by the group?" -Robert Greene
"Drunk with success and sick with ambition, such empires expand to grotesque proportions and meet a ruin that is total. This" -Robert Greene
"Half of your mastery of power comes from what you do not do, what you do not allow yourself to get dragged into. For this skill you must learn to judge all things by what they cost you. As Nietzsche wrote, 'The value of a thing sometimes lies not in what one attains with it, but in what one pays for it—what it costs us.' Perhaps you will attain your goal, and a worthy goal at that, but at what price? Apply this standard to everything, including whether to collaborate with other people or come to their aid. In the end, life is short, opportunities are few, and you have only so much energy to draw on. And in this sense time is as important a consideration as any other. Never waste valuable time, or mental peace of mind, on the affairs of others—that is too high a price to pay." -Robert Greene
"The horse and rider must work together. This means we consider our actions beforehand; we bring as much thinking as possible to a situation before we make a decision. But once we decide what to do, we loosen the reins and enter action with boldness and a spirit of adventure. Instead of being slaves to this energy, we channel it. That is the essence of rationality." -Robert Greene
"al adoptar rasgos psicológicos del sexo opuesto, apelan a nuestro narcisismo inherente. Esta suerte de travestismo mental —la capacidad de acceder al espíritu del sexo opuesto, adaptarse a su manera de pensar, ser reflejo de sus gustos y actitudes— puede ser un elemento clave en la seducción. Es una manera de hipnotizar a tu víctima. El dandy femenino (el hombre ligeramente andrógino) tienta a la mujer justo con lo que a ella le gusta: una presencia conocida, grata. En su calidad de reflejo de la psicología femenina, ostenta cuidado en su apariencia, sensibilidad a los detalles y cierto grado de coquetería, pero también un toque de masculina crueldad. Las mujeres son narcisistas y se enamoran de los encantos de su sexo. Al presentarles un encanto femenino, un hombre puede hipnotizarlas y desarmarlas, y volverlas vulnerables a un embate masculino audaz." -Robert Greene
"Confidence without self-awareness and control can become grandiosity." -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: Instead of merely reacting, step back and look at the wider context. Consider the ramifications of any action you take. Realize that is often better to do nothing, to not react, to let time go by and see what it reveals." -Robert Greene
"The Blame Bias I learn from my experience and mistakes. Mistakes and failures elicit the need to explain. We want to learn the lesson and not repeat the experience. But in truth, we do not like to look too closely at what we did; our introspection is limited. Our natural response is to blame others, circumstances, or a momentary lapse of judgment. The reason for this bias is that it is often too painful to look at our mistakes. It calls into question our feelings of superiority. It pokes at our ego." -Robert Greene
"The first game of a chess tournament is critical, since it sets the tone for the months to come. It is often a slow and quiet struggle, with the two players preparing themselves for the war and trying to read each other’s strategies. This game was different." -Robert Greene
"When you are weaker, there is nothing to be gained by fighting a useless fight. No one comes to help the weak—by doing so they would only put themselves in jeopardy. The weak are alone and must submit. Fighting gives you nothing to gain but martyrdom, and in the process a lot of people who do not believe in your cause will die." -Robert Greene
"The lesson is twofold: First, the credit for an invention or creation is as important, if not more important, than the invention itself. You must secure the credit for yourself and keep others from stealing it away, or from piggy-backing on your hard work. To accomplish this you must always be vigilant and ruthless, keeping your creation quiet until you can be sure there are no vultures circling overhead. Second, learn to take advantage of other people’s work to further your own cause. Time is precious and life is short. If you try to do it all on your own, you run yourself ragged, waste energy, and burn yourself out. It is far better to conserve your forces, pounce on the work others have done, and find a way to make it your own." -Robert Greene
"When she was writing, she could completely forget herself and inhabit her characters. It was a religious-like experience of losing the ego." -Robert Greene
"You can slog through life, making endless mistakes, wasting time and energy trying to do things from your own experience. Or you can use the armies of the past. As Bismarck once said, 'Fools say that they learn by experience. I prefer to profit by others’ experience." -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: When it comes to the ideas and opinions you hold, see them as toys or building blocks that you are playing with. Some you will keep, others you will knock down, but your spirit remains flexible and playful. The Laws of Human Nature, 7: Soften People’s Resistance by Confirming Their Self-Opinion—The Law of Defensiveness" -Robert Greene
"Any success that we have in life inevitably depends on some good luck, timings, the contributions of others, the teachers who helped us along the way, the whims of the public in need of something new. Our tendency is to forget all of this and imagine that any success stems from our superior self." -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: With some distance and awareness, you can become much more than a follower of or a rebel against your generation; you can mold your own relationship to the zeitgeist and become a formidable trendsetter." -Robert Greene
"Men of this type often had strong mother figures in their childhood. They became good, obedient boys, excellent students at school. Consciously they are attracted to well-educated women, to those who seem good and perfect. But unconsciously they are drawn to women who are imperfect, bad, of dubious character. They secretly crave what is the opposite of themselves. It is the classic split of the mother/whore—they want the mother figure for a wife but feel a much stronger physical attraction to the whore, the Fallen Woman, the type who likes to display her body. They have repressed the playful, sensual, and earthy sides of the character they had as boys. They are too rigid and civilized. The only way they can relate to these qualities is through women who appear to be so different from themselves. Like Swann, they find a way to idealize them with some highbrow reference that has no relation to reality. They project onto such women weakness and vulnerability. They tell themselves they want to help and protect them. But what really attracts them is the danger and naughty pleasures these women seem to promise. Underestimating the strength of such women, they often end up as their pawns. Their anima is passive and masochistic. Men who engage in this kind of projection need to develop the less conventional sides of their character. They need to move outside their comfort zone and try new experiences on their own. They require more challenges, and even a bit of danger that will help loosen them up. Perhaps they need to take more risks at work. They also need to develop the more physical and sensual side of their character. Not having to get what they crave by looking for the Fallen Woman type, they can actually begin to satisfy their urges with any type of woman, not passively waiting for her to lead them astray but actively initiating the guilty pleasures." -Robert Greene
"In dealing with any problem, you must train yourself to look at how it inevitably connects to a larger picture." -Robert Greene
"Make your masters appear more brilliant than they are" -Robert Greene
"Perspective comes with time." -Robert Greene
"What this means is that we humans are continually plagued by feelings of helplessness that come from many sources. If this feeling is strong enough or lasts for too long, it can become unbearable. We are willful creatures who crave power. This desire for power is not evil or antisocial; it is a natural response to the awareness of our essential weakness and vulnerability. In essence, what drives much of our behavior is to have control over circumstances, to feel the connection between what we do and what we get—to feel that we can influence people and events to some extent. This mitigates our sense of helplessness and makes the unpredictability of life tolerable. We satisfy this need by developing solid work skills that help us secure our career status and give us a feeling of control over the future. We also try to develop social skills that allow us to work with other people, earn their affection, and have a degree of influence over them." -Robert Greene
"inducted into the International Boxing Hall of" -Robert Greene
"Over the next few years, Marilyn taught herself through trial and error how to heighten the effect she had on men. Her voice had always been attractive—it was the voice of a little girl. But on film it had limitations until someone finally taught her to lower it, giving it the deep, breathy tones that became her seductive trademark, a mix of the little girl and the vixen. Before appearing on set, or even at a party, Marilyn would spend hours before the mirror. Most people assumed this was vanity—she was in love with her image. The truth was that image took hours to create. Marilyn spent years studying and practicing the art of makeup. The voice, the walk, the face and look were all constructions, an act. At the height of her fame, she would get a thrill by going into bars in New York City without her makeup or glamorous clothes and passing unnoticed." -Robert Greene
"Because we are not really relating to women and men as they are, but rather to our projections, we will eventually feel disappointed in them, as if they are to blame for not being what we had imagined. The relationship will often tend to fall apart from the misreading and miscommunications on both sides, and not aware of the source of this, we will go through precisely the same cycle with the next person." -Robert Greene
"If your orders are vague and halfhearted, by the time they reach the field they will be meaningless. Let people work unsupervised and they will revert to their natural selfishness: they will see in your orders what they want to see, and their behavior will promote their own interests. Unless you adapt your leadership style to the weaknesses of the people in your group, you will almost certainly end up with a break in the chain of command." -Robert Greene
"Anyone who would spend years absorbing the techniques of their field, trying them out, mastering them, exploring and personalizing them, would inevitebly find their authentic voice and give birth to something unique and expressive" -Robert Greene
"The ability to measure people and to know who you’re dealing with is the most important skill of all in gathering and conserving power. Without it you are blind: Not only will you offend the wrong people, you will choose the wrong types to work on, and will think you are flattering people when you are actually insulting them." -Robert Greene
"لقد اكتشف الفنان الأمريكي آندي وارهول في شبابه أن من المستحيل عموماً أن تجعل الناس يفعلون ما تريدهم أن يفعلوه بالتحدث معهم. بل إنهم سينقلبون ضدك، ويعاكسون رغباتك ويعصونك بسبب بحبِّهم للعناد والمشاكسة المحضة. فقال لصديق له ذات مرة: لقد تعلمت أن لك سلطة أكثر عندما تغلق فمك." -Robert Greene
"Be like a slippery ball that cannot be held: Let no one know what gets to you, or where your weaknesses like." -Robert Greene
"Below the surface, however, the tide is moving; nothing in human culture stands still. Those you are younger than you no longer have the same level of respect for certain values or institutions that you have. Power dynamics—among the classes, regions, industries—are in a state of flux. People are beginning to socialize and interact new ways. New symbols and myths are being formed, and old ones are fading. All of these things can seeing rather disconnected until there is some crisis or clash that people must confront what was once seemingly invisible or separate, in the form of some sort of revolution or cry for change." -Robert Greene
"When it is time to ask for a favor or help, you must think first of appealing to people’s self-interest in some way." -Robert Greene
"La víctima perfecta no tiene facciones específicas o el mismo gusto musical que tú, o metas similares en la vida. Éstos son los criterios del seductor banal para elegir a sus objetivos. La víctima perfecta es la persona que te incita en una forma que no puede explicarse con palabras, cuyo efecto en ti no tiene nada que ver con superficialidades. Esa persona" -Robert Greene
"You become what you think, your daily thoughts your reality. You create the rich or arid landscape of your brain. If you constrict your thoughts to the same obsessions, to the tiny realm of your smartphone, that is the world that you create for yourself." -Robert Greene
"judge all things by what they cost you." -Robert Greene
"But if you attempt to move in the opposite direction, you will notice the opposite dynamic—continual expansion, mental doors opening up in every direction, creative connections and new ideas flooding your brain." -Robert Greene
"It is advisable to let everyone of your acquaintance—whether man or woman—feel now and then that you could very well dispense with their company" -Robert Greene
"Infectors can be recognized by the misfortune they draw on themselves, their turbulent past, their long line of broken relationships, their unstable careers, and the very force of their character, which sweeps you up and makes you lose your reason." -Robert Greene
"But hire a former enemy and he will be more loyal than a friend, because he has more to prove. In fact, you have more to fear from friends than from enemies. If you have no enemies, find a way to make them." -Robert Greene
"em mim, e manter sob controle rigoroso" -Robert Greene
"The Laws of Human Nature, 16: See the Hostility Behind the Friendly Façade—The Law of Aggression" -Robert Greene
"Cada cual tiene su suerte en las manos, como un escultor la materia que convertirá en figura. Pero con ese tipo de actividad artística es igual que con los demás: nacimos apenas con la capacidad de realizarla. La habilidad para hacer de ese material lo que queramos debe aprenderse y cultivarse atentamente. —JOHANN WOLFGANG VON GOETHE" -Robert Greene
"… it does sometimes happen that it is better to let your enemies destroy themselves, if such a thing is possible, than to make them suffer by your hand." -Robert Greene
"These steps are: Deep Observation (The Passive Mode), Skills Acquisition (The Practice Mode), and Experimentation (The Active Mode)." -Robert Greene
"Keep in mind that there are generally more extroverts than introverts in the world." -Robert Greene
"[Chekhov] made a vow to himself: no more bowing and apologizing to people; no more complaining and blaming; no more disorderly living and wasting time. The answer to everything was work and love, work and love." -Robert Greene
"We like to present a particular appearance to the world, one that highlights our strengths. When in love, however, opposite traits often come to the fore. A person who is normally strong and independent can suddenly become rather helpless, dependent, and hysterical. A nurturing, empathetic person can suddenly become tyrannical, demanding, and self-absorbed. As adults we feel relatively mature and practical, but in love we can suddenly regress to behavior that can only be seen as childish. We experience fears and insecurities that are greatly exaggerated. We feel terror at the thought of being abandoned, like a baby who has been left alone for a few minutes. We have wild mood swings—from love to hate, from trust to paranoia. Normally we like to imagine that we are good judges of other people’s character. Once infatuated or in love, however, we mistake the narcissist for a genius, the suffocator for a nurturer, the slacker for the exciting rebel, the control freak for the protector. Others can often see the truth and try to disabuse us of our fantasies, but we won’t listen. And what is worse, we will often continue to make the same types of mistaken judgments again and again." -Robert Greene
"feelings are nothing final or original; behind feelings there stand judgments and evaluations which we inherit in the form of . . . inclinations, aversions. The inspiration born of a feeling is the grandchild of a judgment—and often of a false judgment!—and in any event not a child of your own!" -Robert Greene
"People are of infinite complexity and you can spend a lifetime watching them without ever fully understanding them" -Robert Greene
"All of us are mortal and face the same dreadful fate, and all of us share the desire for attachment and belonging. Stir up these emotions and you captivate our hearts. The best way to do this is with a dramatic jolt, of the kind that Chuko Liang created when he fed and released prisoners who expected only the worst from him. Shaking them to the core, he softened their hearts. Play on contrasts like this: Push people to despair, then give them relief. If they expect pain and you give them pleasure, you win their hearts. Creating pleasure of any kind, in fact, will usually bring you success, as will allaying fears and providing or promising security." -Robert Greene
"Desarrolle la habilidad de percibir los problemas mientras todavía sean pequeños y atacarlos antes de que se vuelvan incontrolables o ya no tengan remedio." -Robert Greene
"Any man who tries to be good all the time is bound to come to ruin among the great number who are not good. Hence a prince who wants to keep his authority must learn how not to be good, and use that knowledge, or refrain from using it, as necessity requires. THE PRINCE, Niccolò Machiavelli, 1469-1527" -Robert Greene
"In dealing with fools you must adopt the following philosophy: they are simply a part of life, like rocks or furniture." -Robert Greene
"We have learned the rules so well that we can now be the ones to break or rewrite them." -Robert Greene
"Blending in is the perfect smoke screen for spying. The better you do it, the better you can conceal your intentions." -Robert Greene
"Make understanding people a fun game, the solving of puzzles. It is all part of the human comedy. Yes, people are irrational, but so are you. Make your acceptance of human nature as radical as possible. This will calm you down and help you observe people more dispassionately, understanding them on a deeper level. You will stop projecting your own emotions on to them. All of this will give you more balance and calmness, more mental space for thinking." -Robert Greene
"Al comenzar, no debe ha- ber nada seductor en tu actitud. La seducción ha de iniciarse desde un ángulo, indirectamente, para que el objetivo  se percate de ti en forma gra- dual." -Robert Greene
"Leonardo was eager to learn all of these skills, but soon he discovered in himself something else: he could not simply do an assignment; he needed to make it something of his own, to invent rather than imitate the Master." -Robert Greene
"Return to the harder or softer sides of your character that you have lost or repressed." -Robert Greene
"In facing a serious problem—controlling superior numbers—Sparta reacted like an animal that develops a shell to protect itself from the environment. But like a turtle, the Spartans sacrificed mobility for safety. They managed to preserve stability for three hundred years, but at what cost? They had no culture beyond warfare, no arts to relieve the tension, a constant anxiety about the status quo. While their neighbors took to the sea, learning to adapt to a world of constant motion, the Spartans entombed themselves in their own system. Victory would mean new lands to govern, which they did not want; defeat would mean the end of their military machine, which they did not want, either. Only stasis allowed them to survive. But nothing in the world can remain stable forever, and the shell or system you evolve for your protection will someday prove your undoing. In the case of Sparta, it was not the armies of Athens that defeated it, but the Athenian money. Money flows everywhere it has the opportunity to go; it cannot be controlled, or made to fit a prescribed pattern. It is inherently chaotic. And in the long run, money made Athens the conqueror, by infiltrating the Spartan system and corroding its protective armor. In the battle between the two systems, Athens was fluid and creative enough to take new forms, while Sparta could grow only more rigid until it cracked." -Robert Greene
"You may have brilliant ideas, you may be able to invent unbeatable strategies—but if the group that you lead, and that you depend on to execute your plans, is unresponsive and uncreative, and if its members always put their personal agendas first, your ideas will mean nothing. You must learn the lesson of war: it is the structure of the army—the chain of command and the relationship of the parts to the whole—that will give your strategies force." -Robert Greene
"The mind must not wander from goal to goal, or be distracted by success from its sense of purpose and proportion. What is concentrated, coherent, and connected to its past has power." -Robert Greene
"Hurrying betrays a lack of control over yourself, and over time." -Robert Greene
"Spiritualize your warfare." -Robert Greene
"The future belongs to those who learn more skills and combine them in creative ways. And the process of learning skills, no matter how virtual, remains the same." -Robert Greene
"Pay attention to those above you for signs of insecurity and envy. They will inevitably have a track record of firing people for strange reasons. They will not seem particularly happy with that excellent report you turned in. Always play it safe by deferring to bosses, making them look better, and earning their trust. Couch your brilliant ideas as their ideas. Let them get all the credit for your hard work. Your time to shine will come," -Robert Greene
"Patience will protect you from making moronic blunders. Like mastering your emotions, patience is a skill—it does not come naturally. But nothing about power is natural; power is more godlike than anything in the natural world. And patience is the supreme virtue of the gods, who have nothing but time." -Robert Greene
"According to Klein, these common strategies are brittle and will break down under stress—a downturn in their career, bouts of depression, wounds to their ego. The envy they experienced in their earliest years remains continually latent and ready to be directed at others. They are literally looking for people to envy so they can reexperience the primal emotion." -Robert Greene
"Trata de persuadir a una persona apelando a su conciencia, diciendo lo que quieres, mostrando todas tus cartas, ¿y qué esperanza te queda? Serás sólo una irritación más por eliminar." -Robert Greene
"he will replace you with someone less intelligent, less attractive, less threatening," -Robert Greene
"The world is full of fools—people who cannot wait to get results, who change with the wind, who can’t see past their noses. You encounter them everywhere: the indecisive boss, the rash colleague, the hysterical subordinate. When working alongside fools, do not fight them. Instead think of them the way you think of children, or pets, not important enough to affect your mental balance." -Robert Greene
"Los errores suelen perdo-narse, pero el desprecio nunca. Nues-tro orgullo lo recuerda para siem-pre. (Lord Chesterfield, 1694-1773)" -Robert Greene
"That is precisely the wrong approach. What makes us go astray in the first place is that we are unattuned to the present moment, insensitive to the circumstances. We are listening to our own thoughts, reacting to things that happened in the past, applying theories and ideas that we digested long ago but that have nothing to do with our predicament in the present. More books, theories, and thinking only make the problem worse." -Robert Greene
"This law admits of no reversal. Its application is universal. There is nothing to be gained by associating with those who infect you with their misery; there is only power and good fortune to be obtained by associating with the fortunate. Ignore this law at your peril." -Robert Greene
"People feel superior to the person whose actions they can predict. If you show them who is in control by playing against their expectations, you both gain their respect and tighten your hold on their fleeting attention." -Robert Greene
"Mistakes and failures are precisely your means of education. They tell you about your own inadequacies." -Robert Greene
"Beware of people who hide behind a façade of vague abstractions and impartiality: no one is impartial. A sharply worded question, an opinion designed to offend, will make them react and take sides. Man exists only in so far as he is opposed.GEORG HEGEL, 1770–1831" -Robert Greene
"You are not tied to a particular position; your loyalty is not to a career or a company. You are committed to your Life’s Task, to giving it full expression. It is up to you to find it and guide it correctly. It is not up to others to protect or help you. You are on your own. Change is inevitable, particularly in such a revolutionary moment" -Robert Greene
"There is almost a desire to destroy and unsettle. You could spend a lifetime studying the pathology of infecting characters, but don’t waste your time—just learn the lesson. When you suspect you are in the presence of an infector, don’t argue, don’t try to help, don’t pass the person on to your friends, or you will become enmeshed." -Robert Greene
"Be extra careful in the work environment with those who like to maintain their position through charm and being political, rather than by getting things done." -Robert Greene
"وعلى سبيل المثال إذا كنت شحيحاً بطبعك، فإنك لن تتعدى حدّاً معيناً؛ فالعظمة لا يصل إليها إلاَّ ذوو النفوس السخية. فاختلط بالكرام إذن، وسيصيبونك بالعدوى، فيفتحون كل شيء مغلق ومحكم ومقيَّد فيك." -Robert Greene
"Absence diminishes minor passions and inflames great ones, as the wind douses a candle and fans a fire. La Rochefoucauld, 1613-1680" -Robert Greene
"Normally, if we pay attention to people’s behavior, we are in a rush to fit their actions into categories and to hurry to conclusions, so we settle for the judgment that suits our own preconceptions. Or we accept their self-serving explanations. The Laws will rid you of this habit by making it clear how easy it is to misread people and how deceptive first impressions can be." -Robert Greene
"conduct experiments to verify or alter our speculations. Now when we look at the phenomenon yet again, weeks or months later, we see more and more aspects of its hidden reality." -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: Work at what connects to you emotionally and ideas will come to you. Mastery, V: Awaken the Dimensional Mind—The Creative-Active" -Robert Greene
"While a friend expects more and more favors, and seethes with jealousy, these former enemies expected nothing and got everything." -Robert Greene
"elige una causa, un ideal, una visión, y demuestra que no te desvías de tu meta. La gente imaginará que tu seguridad procede de algo real." -Robert Greene
"The key in life is to always be willing to walk away." -Robert Greene
"The Stars in the Sky. There can be only one sun at a time. Never obscure the sunlight, or rival the sun’s brilliance; rather, fade into the sky and find ways to heighten the master star’s intensity." -Robert Greene
"la esencia de la coqueta no radica en el señuelo y la tentación, sino en la posterior marcha atrás, la reticencia emocional. Ésta es la clave del deseo esclavizador." -Robert Greene
"In the evolution of species, protective armor has almost always spelled disaster. Although there are a few exceptions, the shell most often becomes a dead end for the animal encased in it; it slows the creature down, making it hard to forage for food and making it a target for fast-moving predators. Animals that take to the sea or sky, and that move swiftly and unpredictably, are infinitely more powerful and secure." -Robert Greene
"They forget the favors they have received and imagine they have earned their success by their own merits." -Robert Greene
"su  narcisismo re- sulta endemoniadamente  atractivo." -Robert Greene
"The Laws of Human Nature, 6: Elevate Your Perspective—The Law of Shortsightedness" -Robert Greene
"Learning never exhausts the mind.—Leonardo da Vinci" -Robert Greene
"Una superficie brillante puede tener encanto decorativo, pero lo que te hace voltear a ver un cuadro es la profundidad de campo, una ambigüedad inexpresable, una complejidad surreal." -Robert Greene
"Por último, frente a un impetuoso y precipitado enemigo, no reaccionar resulta una reacción excelente. La táctica de Talleyrand: Nada es tan irritante como un hombre que mantiene la calma mientras que los demás la pierden. Cuando usted pueda obtener una ventaja desconcertando a su adversario, adopte una posición de aristocrática displicencia, sin burlarse, ni mostrarse triunfante sino solo haciendo gala de su indiferencia. Esto encenderá la mecha. Cuando su adversario se haya puesto en una situación embarazosa a raíz de sus arranques de ira, usted habrá ganado varias victorias, una de las cuales es que, frente a una actitud infantil, usted logró mantener su dignidad y compostura." -Robert Greene
"People who are envious cannot help feeling some glee when they hear of the bad luck of those they envy." -Robert Greene
"this often neutralizes their behavior—they expected, even wanted you to react with force and so they are caught off-guard and confounded by your lack of resistance." -Robert Greene
"The character you seem to have been born with is not necessarily who you are; beyond the characteristics you have inherited, your parents, your friends, and your peers have helped to shape your personality. The Promethean task of the powerful is to take control of the process, to stop allowing others that ability to limit and mold them. Remake yourself into a character of power. Working on yourself like clay should be one of your greatest and most pleasurable life tasks. It makes you in essence an artist – an artist creating yourself." -Robert Greene
"parents like to see themselves more as equals, with a bit more knowledge and experience, whose role is really to validate their children’s feelings and make sure they are continually entertained and occupied. They are more like older friends. This same leveling dynamic applies to teachers and students, where learning must be fun." -Robert Greene
"[Strategy] is more than a science: it is the application of knowledge to practical life, the development of thought capable of modifying the original guiding idea in the light of ever-changing situations; it is the art of acting under the pressure of the most difficult conditions.HELMUTH VON MOLTKE, 1800–1891" -Robert Greene
"The problem with using or hiring friends is that it will inevitably limit your power. The friend is rarely the one who is most able to help you; and in the end, skill and competence are far more important than friendly feelings." -Robert Greene
"Depend on your own arms." -Robert Greene
"وإذن، فإن من الأفضل أحيانًا استخدام الأعداء كأعداء بدلاً من تحويلهم إلى أصدقاء أو حلفاء." -Robert Greene
"We often notice a similar sensation of confusion and helplessness when it comes to ourselves and our own behavior. For instance, we suddenly say something that offends our boss or colleague or friend— we are not quite sure where it came from, but we are frustrated to find that some anger and tension from within has leaked out in a way that we regret." -Robert Greene
"Consider Mastery as an invaluable tool in guiding you through this transformative process." -Robert Greene
"The shadow is something we deny and repress. It is so much easier to dig up and moralize about the dark qualities of others. It is almost unnatural for us to look inward at this side of ourselves. But remember you are only half a human if you keep this buried. Be intrepid in this process." -Robert Greene
"Absence and presence have very primal effects upon us. Too much presence suffocates; a degree of absence spurs our interest. We are marked by the continual desire to possess what we do not have— the object projected by our fantasies. Learn to create some mystery around you, to use strategic absence to make people desire your return, to want to possess you. Dangle in front of others what they are missing most in life, what they are forbidden to have, and they will go crazy with desire. The grass is always greener on the other side of the fence. Overcome this weakness in yourself by embracing your circumstances, your fate." -Robert Greene
"The bigger it bloats, the harder it falls." -Robert Greene
"frente a los agresivos, retírate, déjalos conseguir sus pequeñas victorias." -Robert Greene
"Commit harmless mistakes that will not hurt you in the long run but will give you the chance to ask for his help. Masters adore such requests." -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: Remember that what you are after is a series of practical results and accomplishments, not a list of unrealized dreams and aborted projects. Working with smaller, embedded goals will keep you moving in such a direction. The Laws of Human Nature, 13: Advance with a Sense of Purpose—The Law of Aimlessness" -Robert Greene
"In moving toward mastery, you are bringing your mind closer to reality and to life itself. Anything that is alive is in a continual state of change and movement. The moment that you rest, thinking that you have attained the level you desire, a part of your mind enters a phase of decay. You lose your hard-earned creativity and others begin to sense it. This is a power and intelligence that must be continually renewed or it will die." -Robert Greene
"Having such clarity about ourselves and others could change the course of our lives in so many ways, but first we must clear up a common misconception: we tend to think of our behavior as largely conscious and willed." -Robert Greene
"غيِّر ميدان اللعب:" -Robert Greene
"Avoid the Counterforces to Mastery" -Robert Greene
"الاستنتاج: إن ما يجعلنا نطور هذه القوى في التشاعر هو الحاجة، فإذا شعرنا أن بقاءنا يعتمد على حسن قياسنا لمزاجات وعقول الآخرين فإننا سنجد التركيز اللازم، ونستغل تلك القوى، ونحن في الحالة الطبيعية لا نشعر بالحاجة إلى ذلك، فنحن نتصور أننا نفهم الناس الذين نتعامل معهم أحسن الفهم. والحياة يمكن أن تكون قاسية، وعلينا الكثير من الواجبات الأخرى لا بد لنا من الاهتمام بها، ويقعدنا الكسل، فترانا نفضل الاعتماد على الأحكام الجاهزة مسبقًا، إلا أن الحقيقة هي أن ذلك أمر حياة أو موت، ونجاحنا يعتمد [فعلًا] على تطوير هذه المهارات. ونحن ببساطة لا ندرك ذلك؛ لأننا لا نرى الصلة بين المشكلات التي تواجهنا في حياتنا، وقراءتنا الخاطئة المستمرة لمزاجات الناس ومقاصدهم، ولا نرى الفرص الضائعة الكثيرة من جراء ذلك. إذًا فالخطوة الأولى هي أهم خطوة: إنها إدراكك بأن لديك أداة اجتماعية مهمة لم تصقلها [بعدُ]. وأفضل السبل لصقلها هي تجربتها؛ فلتوقِف أحاديث مناجاتك الداخلية الدائمة، ولتنتبه إلى الناس أحسن انتباه، وناغم نفسك مع المزاجات المتغيرة للأفراد والمجموعة، واقرأ الطبيعة النفسية لكل شخص على حدة، واكتشف ما يحركهم، وحاول أن تنظر بعيونهم، وتدخل في عالمهم ومنظومة قيمهم، وستدرك فجأة عالمًا بأكمله من السلوكيات بلا كلام، لم تكن تعرف بتاتًا بوجوده، وكأن عينيك أصبحتا فجأة تريان الضوء فوق البنفسجي، وعندما تحس بهذه الطاقة، سوف تشعر بأهميتها وتتنبه لفرص اجتماعية جديدة. أنا لا أسأل الجريح عن شعوره ... أنا نفسي أصبح الشخص الجريح." -Robert Greene
"People trying to make a show of their authority are easily deceived by the surrender tactic. Your outward sign of submission makes them feel important; satisfied that you respect them, they become easier targets for a later counterattack," -Robert Greene
"See Beyond the Moment" -Robert Greene
"Masters are those who by nature have suffered to get to where they are. They have experienced endless criticisms of their work, doubts about their progress, setbacks along the way. They know deep in their bones what is required to get to the creative phase and beyond." -Robert Greene
"If you run away or fight back, in the long run you cannot win. If you surrender, you will almost always emerge victorious." -Robert Greene
"The trick is simple: You simply blend in with those around you. The better you blend, the less suspicious you become." -Robert Greene
"Understanding the permeability of emotions, you will learn that the most effective means of influence is to alter your moods and attitude. People are responding to your energy and demeanor even more than to your words." -Robert Greene
"The Laws of Human Nature, 10: Beware the Fragile Ego—The Law of Envy" -Robert Greene
"También debes mantener a la gente a prudente distancia, para evitar que te comprenda." -Robert Greene
"The mind must be able to feel doubt and uncertainty for as long as possible. As it remains in this state and probes deeply into the mysteries of the universe, ideas will come that are more dimensional and real than if we had jumped to conclusions and formed judgments early on." -Robert Greene
"Everyone has insecurities. When you show yourself in the world and display your talents, you naturally stir up all kinds of resentment, envy, and other manifestations of insecurity. This is to be expected." -Robert Greene
"The Prussian military theoretician Carl von Clausewitz famously argued that war is the continuation of politics by other means." -Robert Greene
"The leaders of such past generations resonate through history and take on a kind of mythic hue the more time passes. By associating yourself with those figures or times, you can give added weight to whatever movement or innovation you are promoting. You take some of the emotionally loaded symbols and styles of that historical period and adapt them, giving the impression that what you are attempting in the present is a more perfect and progressive version of what happened in the past." -Robert Greene
"You often do not know your friends as well as you imagine. Friends often agree on things in order to avoid an argument. They cover up their unpleasant qualities so as to not offend each other. They laugh extra hard at each other's jokes. Since honesty rarely strengthens friendship, you may never know how a friend truly feels. Friends will say that they love your poetry, adore your music, envy your taste of clothes-- maybe they mean it, often they do not." -Robert Greene
"In nineteenth-century India, under British colonial rule, authorities decided there were too many venomous cobras in the streets of Delhi, making life uncomfortable for the British residents and their families. To solve this they offered a reward for every dead cobra residents would bring in. Soon enterprising locals began to breed cobras in order to make a living from the bounty. The government caught on to this and canceled the program. The breeders, resentful of the rulers and angered by their actions, decided to release their cobras back on the streets, thereby tripling the population from before the government program." -Robert Greene
"The book will teach you to stop taking personally their insinuating comments, shows of coldness, or moments of irritation. The more you grasp this, the easier it will be to react not with your emotions but rather with the desire to understand where their behavior might come from. You will feel much calmer in the process. And as this takes root in you, you will be less prone to moralize and judge people; instead you will accept them and their flaws as part of human nature. People will like you all the more as they sense this tolerant attitude in you." -Robert Greene
"Descubrió de este modo que, al dibujar cosas, tenía que observarlas con más detenimiento y captar los detalles que les daban vida." -Robert Greene
"It is the natural course of things that power eventually fades and weakens." -Robert Greene
"There Are No Superior Callings" -Robert Greene
"entre más se relaje el objetivo, más fácil te será inclinarlo a tu voluntad." -Robert Greene
"Instead, see other people as phenomena, as neutral as comets or plants. They simply exist. They come in all varieties, making life rich and interesting. Work with what they give you, instead of resisting and trying to change them." -Robert Greene
"There are very few men—and they are the exceptions—who are able to think and feel beyond the present moment." -Robert Greene
"Be wary of friends—they will betray you more quickly, for they are easily aroused to envy. They also become spoiled and tyrannical" -Robert Greene
"Not only because of the fact that . . . oppression usually increases if it is suffered calmly and without protest, but also because opposition gives us inner satisfaction, distraction, relief . . . Our opposition makes us feel that we are not completely victims of the circumstances.GEORG SIMMEL, 1858–1918" -Robert Greene
"As Bismarck once said, 'Fools say that they learn by experience. I prefer to profit by others’ experience." -Robert Greene
"As long as there are humans, the irrational will find its voices and means of spreading. Rationality is something to be acquired by individuals, not by mass movements or technological progress. Feeling superior and beyond it is a sure sign that the irrational is at work." -Robert Greene
"You must avoid the common mistake of making judgments based on your initial impressions of people. Such impressions can sometimes tell you something, but more often they are misleading. There are several reasons for this. In your initial encounter you tend to be nervous, less open, and more inward. You are not really paying attention. Furthermore, people have trained themselves to appear a certain way; they have a persona they use in public that acts like a second skin to protect them. Unless you are incredibly perceptive, you will tend to mistake the mask for the reality." -Robert Greene
"The inventor Thomas Edison understood how much better he worked under pressure. He would deliberately talk to the press about an idea before it was ready. This would create some publicity and excitement in the public as to the possibilities of the proposed invention." -Robert Greene
"Authority: Do everything pleasant yourself, everything unpleasant through third parties. By adopting the first course you win favor, by taking the second you deflect ill will. Important affairs often require rewards and punishments. Let only the good come from you and the evil from others. (Baltasar Gracián, 1601–1658)" -Robert Greene
"The reason for this is twofold: first, we are quick to discern the mistakes and defects of others, but when it comes to ourselves we are generally too emotional and insecure to look squarely at our own. Second, people rarely tell us the truth about what it is that we do wrong." -Robert Greene
"Perfect economy, then, does not mean hoarding your resources. That is not economy but stinginess—deadly in war. Perfect economy means finding a golden mean, a level at which your blows count but do not wear you out." -Robert Greene
"تقبَّل الناس كأنهم حقائق: التأثر مع الناس هو المصدر الرئيس للاضطراب العاطفي، إلا أنه ليس بالضرورة أن يكون كذلك؛ فالمشكلة هي أننا نحكم على الناس باستمرار، ونتمنى لو أنهم كانوا على خلاف ما هم عليه، فنريد أن نغيرهم، ونريد منهم التفكير والتصرف بطريقة معينة، وغالبًا ما تكون تلك الطريقة نفسها التي نفكر ونتصرف بها. وبما أن هذا الأمر مستحيل؛ لأن كل إنسان يختلف عن غيره، ترانا دائمًا محبطين ومنزعجين، لكن بدلًا من ذلك انظر إلى الآخرين كأنهم ظواهر، ظواهر حيادية، كالمذنبات والنباتات؛ إنهم موجودون ببساطة، وهم من كل صنف ونوع، يزيدون الحياة غنًى وإمتاعًا، فاعمل بما يقدمونه إليك، بدلًا من أن تقاومهم وتحاول تغييرهم،" -Robert Greene
"When it comes to power, outshining the master is perhaps the worst mistake of all." -Robert Greene
"We all believe we are masters in the realm of opinions and reasoning. You must be careful, then: Learn to demonstrate the correctness of your ideas indirectly." -Robert Greene
"patience is a skill—it does not come naturally." -Robert Greene
"it is not a weakness to disguise your strengths if in the end they lead to power. By letting others outshine you, you remain in control, instead of being a victim of their insecurity. This will all come in handy the day you decide to rise above your inferior status." -Robert Greene
"Clearly the words rational and irrational can be quite loaded. People are always labeling those who disagree with them 'irrational.' What we need is a simple definition that can be applied as a way of judging, as accurately as possible, the difference between the two. The following shall serve as our barometer: We constantly feel emotions, and they continually infect our thinking, making us veer toward thoughts that please us and soothe our egos. It is impossible to not have our inclinations and feelings somehow involved in what we think. Rational people are aware of this and through introspection and effort are able, to some extent, to subtract emotions from their thinking and counteract their effect. Irrational people have no such awareness. They rush into action without carefully considering the ramifications and consequences." -Robert Greene
"Authority: I certainly think that it is better to be impetuous than cautious, for fortune is a woman, and it is necessary, if you wish to master her, to conquer her by force; and it can be seen that she lets herself be overcome by the bold rather than by those who proceed coldly." -Robert Greene
"Your idea of power is wrong. You have mistaken aggressive action for effective action." -Robert Greene
"What is important when you are young, she decided, is to train yourself to get by with little money and make the most of your youthful energy. For the next few years she would work as a dance teacher, keeping her hours to the minimum for survival. The rest of the time she would train herself in the new style of dancing she wanted to create. Knowing the alternative was slavery to some commercial job, she made the most of every free minute, creating in these few years the groundwork for the most radical revolution in modern dance." -Robert Greene
"Honesty is actually a blunt instrument, which bloodies more than it cuts. Your honesty is likely to offend people; it is much more prudent to tailor your words, telling people what they want to hear rather than the coarse and ugly truth of what you feel or think. More important, by being unabashedly open you make yourself so predictable and familiar that it is almost impossible to respect or fear you, and power will not accrue to a person who cannot inspire such emotions." -Robert Greene
"Most people believe that they are in fact aware of the future, that they are planning and thinking ahead. They are usually deluded: What they are really doing is succumbing to their desires, to what they want the future to be." -Robert Greene
"Nunca dividía a su ejército en unidades menores, ya que eso infringiría el principio militar de mantener concentradas las fuerzas; además, dispersarlas dificultaría su monitoreo, y se perdería el control de la batalla." -Robert Greene
"El problema es que, por lo general, estamos demasiado absortos en nosotros mismos: pensamos más en lo que queremos de otras personas que en lo que ellas podrían querer de nosotros." -Robert Greene
"To learn requires a sense of humility." -Robert Greene
"Absence and presence have very primal effects upon us." -Robert Greene
"In any event, you will want to go as far as you can in cultivating your uniqueness and the originality that goes with it. In a world full of people who seem largely interchangeable, you cannot be replaced." -Robert Greene
"If we limit our circle of action, we can give ourselves the illusion of control. The less we attempt, the less chances of failure." -Robert Greene
"إن كل أوضاع العمل تتطلب نوعاً من المسافة الفاصلة بين الناس. فأنت تحاول أن تعمل، لا أن تكوّن صداقات. والصداقة (حقيقة كانت أم مزيفة) لا تفعل شيئاً سوى طمس هذه الحقيقة." -Robert Greene
"Any success that we have in life inevitably depends on some good luck, timing, the contributions of others," -Robert Greene
"The Blame Bias I learn from my experience and mistakes. Mistakes and failures elicit the need to explain. We want to learn the lesson and not repeat the experience. But in truth, we do not like to look too closely at what we did; our introspection is limited. Our natural response is to blame others, circumstances, or a momentary lapse of judgment. The reason for this bias is that it is often too painful to look at our mistakes." -Robert Greene
"Unlike other animals, we humans retain what is known as neoteny—mental and physical traits of immaturity—well into our adult years. We have the remarkable capability of returning to a childlike spirit, especially in moments in which we must learn something. Well into our fifties and beyond, we can return to that sense of wonder and curiosity, reviving our youth and apprenticeships." -Robert Greene
"To help yourself to cultivate serendipity, you should keep a notebook with you at all times." -Robert Greene
"Intense desire has a distracting power on a woman, just as the Siren’s physical presence does on a man." -Robert Greene
"They create in our thinking pronounced biases that are so deeply ingrained in us that we see evidence of them in all cultures and all periods of history. These biases, by distorting reality, lead to the mistakes and ineffective decisions that plague our lives. Being aware of them, we can begin to counterbalance their effects." -Robert Greene
"Stop listening so much to the words and opinions of others, telling you who you are and what you should like and dislike." -Robert Greene
"What if we could understand why some people turn envious and try to sabotage our work, or why their misplaced confidence causes them to imagine themselves as godlike and infallible?" -Robert Greene
"For instance, new forms of media have enhanced the age-old ability of politicians and others to play on our emotions, in ever subtler and more sophisticated ways. Advertisers bombard us with highly effective subliminal messages." -Robert Greene
"Understand: once people know what pleases you and what angers you, they turn into trained poodles, working to charm you with apparent good behavior." -Robert Greene
"Your goal [...] is tp be less a product of the times and to gain the ability to transform your relationship to your generation. A key way of doing this is through active associations with people of different generations. If you are younger, you try to interact more with those of older generations. Some of them, who seem to have a spirit you can identify with, you can try to cultivate as mentors and role models. Others you relate to as you would your peers- not feeling superior or inferior but paying deep attention to their values, ideas, and perspectives, helping to widen your own." -Robert Greene
"إفهم هذا: يريد العالم أن يوكل إليك دوراً في الحياة. وبمجرد أن تقبل الدور تحكم على نفسك بالإخفاق إذ أن سلطتك محدودة بالقَدْر الضئيل المخصص للدور الذي اخترته أو فُرِضَ عليك أن تؤديه." -Robert Greene
"You become subtly addicted to the material comforts you have acquired and before you know it, you uphold ideas that you think you believe in," -Robert Greene
"The Siren must prepare for age by paying attention early on to the more psychological, less physical forms of coquetry that can continue to bring her power once her beauty starts to fade." -Robert Greene
"by embracing the full picture of themselves, their self-love is more real and complete. From this stronger inner position, they can turn their attention outward more often and more easily. This attention goes in one of two directions, and sometimes both." -Robert Greene
"Una anécdota muy conocida sobre Kissinger se relaciona con un informe en el que Winston Lord había trabajado durante días. Le entregó el trabajo a Kissinger y éste se lo devolvió con una nota que decía: '¿Esto es lo mejor que puede hacer?'. Lord reescribió y pulió el informe y se lo volvió a dar a Kissinger, y de nuevo le fue devuelto con la misma pregunta tajante. Después de volver a elaborarlo una vez más —y de recibir una vez más la misma pregunta por parte de Kissinger—, Lord contestó en el mismo tono: '¡Maldita sea! Sí, es lo mejor que puedo hacer'. A lo cual Kissinger replicó: 'Bien, si es así, ahora sí lo voy a leer'. Kissinger, WALTER ISAACSON, 1992" -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: Reflect on those moments in life when you were active (followed your own path) and those moments when you were passive (followed what others wanted). Compare the emotions you experienced. The Laws of Human Nature, 15: Make Them Want to Follow You—The Law of Fickleness" -Robert Greene
"Así como un día rebosante trae consigo dulces sueños, una vida bien empleada procura una muerte dulce'." -Robert Greene
"Throughout history we witness continual cycles of rising and falling levels of the irrational. The great golden age of Pericles, with its philosophers and its first stirrings of the scientific spirit, was followed by an age of superstition, cults, and intolerance. This same phenomenon happened after the Italian Renaissance. That this cycle is bound to recur again and again is part of human nature." -Robert Greene
"indul-" -Robert Greene
"grandiosity and smugness." -Robert Greene
"Woe unto the statesman,' he said, 'who makes war without a reason that will still be valid when the war is over!" -Robert Greene
"If people are essentially lazy or foolish, they leave clues to this in the smallest of details that you can pick up well before their behavior harms you." -Robert Greene
"Right from the beginning, your troops must see you leading from the front, sharing their dangers and sacrifices—taking the cause as seriously as they do. Instead of trying to push them from behind, make them run to keep up with you." -Robert Greene
"Look at the part of a person that is most visible—their greed, their lust, their intense fear. These are the emotions they cannot conceal, and over which they have the least control. And what people cannot control, you can control for them." -Robert Greene
"The second kind comes from a bold and venturesome spirit. If you fail in this way, the hit that you take to your reputation is greatly outweighed by what you learn. Repeated failure will toughen your spirit and show you with absolute clarity how things must be done." -Robert Greene
"Napoleon, von Clausewitz wrote, 'We do claim that direct annihilation of the enemy’s forces must always be the dominant consideration.... Once a major victory is achieved there must be no talk of rest, of breathing space... but only of the pursuit, going for the enemy again, seizing his capital, attacking his reserves and anything else that might give his country aid and comfort." -Robert Greene
"It is a deadly but common misperception to believe that by displaying and vaunting your gifts and talents, you are winning the master’s affection." -Robert Greene
"A warning: Unpredictability can work against you sometimes, especially if you are in a subordinate position. There are times when it is better to let people feel comfortable and settled around you than to disturb them. Too much unpredictability will be seen as a sign of indecisiveness, or even of some more serious psychic problem. Patterns are powerful, and you can terrify people by disrupting them. Such power should only be used judiciously." -Robert Greene
"Envy occurs most commonly and painfully among friends. We assume that something in the course of the relationship caused the friend to turn against us. Sometimes all we experience is the betrayal, the sabotage, the ugly criticisms they throw at us, and we never understand the underlying envy that inspired these actions. What we need to grasp is something paradoxical: people who feel envy in the first place are often motivated to become our friends." -Robert Greene
"Either you will steer clear of them or, foreseeing their manipulative actions, you will not be blindsided and thus will be better able to maintain your emotional balance. You will learn to mentally cut them down to size and focus on the glaring weaknesses and insecurities behind all of their bluster. You will not fall for their myth, and this will neutralize the intimidation they depend on. You will scoff at their cover stories and elaborate explanations for their selfish behavior. Your ability to stay calm will infuriate them and often push them into overreaching or making a mistake." -Robert Greene
"The greatest discovery of my generation is the fact that human beings can alter their lives by altering their attitudes of mind. —William James" -Robert Greene
"So I went down to their office and I said, 'Well, I'll write a column for you.' So the first year I didn't get paid anything, but I wrote a little column every month" -Robert Greene
"Power is endlessly seductive and deceptive in its own way. It is a labyrinth—your mind becomes consumed with solving its infinite problems, and you soon realize how pleasantly lost you have become." -Robert Greene
"See yourself as an explorer." -Robert Greene
"Creativity is by its nature an act of boldness and rebellion." -Robert Greene
"The Obstacle Is the Way" -Robert Greene
"Our world today similarly imagines itself the pinnacle of fairness, yet the same ugly emotions still stir within us, as they have forever. The game is the same." -Robert Greene
"Masters return to this childlike state, their works displaying degrees of spontaneity and access to the unconscious, but at a much higher level than the child." -Robert Greene
"When we are tired, it is often because we are bored. When no real challenge faces us, a mental and physical lethargy sets in. 'Sometimes death only comes from a lack of energy,' Napoleon once said, and lack of energy comes from a lack of challenges, comes when we have taken on less than we are capable of. Take a risk and your body and mind will respond with a rush of energy. Make risk a constant practice; never let yourself settle down." -Robert Greene
"This book is an attempt to gather together this immense storehouse of knowledge and ideas from different branches (see the bibliography for the key sources), to piece together an accurate and instructive guide to human nature, basing itself on the evidence, not on particular viewpoints or moral judgments. It is a brutally realistic appraisal of our species, dissecting who we are so we can operate with more awareness." -Robert Greene
"When the great lord passes, the wise peasant bows deeply and silently farts. Ethiophan proverb" -Robert Greene
"the tendency to mistake appearances for reality—the feeling that if someone seems to belong to your group, their belonging must be real." -Robert Greene
"Like Proust, you must also maintain a sense of destiny, and feel continuously connected to it. You are unique, and there is a purpose to your uniqueness. You must see every setback, failure, or hardship as a trial along the way, as seeds that are being planted for further cultivation, if you know how to grow them. No moment is wasted if you pay attention and learn the lessons contained in every experience. By constantly applying yourself to the subject that suits your inclinations and attacking it from many different angles, you are simply enriching the ground for these seeds to take root." -Robert Greene
"Houdini for instance, could sometimes complete his escape acts in seconds—but he drew them out to minutes, to make the audience sweat." -Robert Greene
"Do not waste time on things you cannot change or influence." -Robert Greene
"Si no le importa cómo lo perciben los demás permitirá que otros decidan por usted. Sea el dueño de su propio destino, y también de su reputación." -Robert Greene
"By remaining focused and speaking socially through your work, you will both continue to raise your skill level and stand out among all the others who make a lot of noise but produce nothing." -Robert Greene
"Powerful people impress and intimidate by saying less." -Robert Greene
"banal" -Robert Greene
"Like men, they are deeply attracted to the forbidden, the dangerous, even the slightly evil. (Don Juan ends by going to hell, and the word 'rake' comes from 'rakehell,' a man who rakes the coals of hell; the devilish component, clearly, is an important part of the fantasy.) Always" -Robert Greene
"The harder you try to resist the lure of seduction—as an idea, as a form of power—the more you will find yourself fascinated. The reason is simple: most of us have known the power of having someone fall in love with us. Our actions, gestures, the things we say, all have positive effects on this person; we may not completely understand what we have done right, but this feeling of power is intoxicating. It gives us confidence, which makes us more seductive. We may also experience this in a social or work setting—one day we are in an elevated mood and people seem more responsive, more charmed by us. These moments of power are fleeting, but they resonate in the memory with great intensity." -Robert Greene
"El aislamiento es tan fatal para las artes creativas como para las artes sociales." -Robert Greene
"People have a desperate need to believe in something and they will find it anywhere. Polls have revealed increasing numbers believing in ghosts and spirits in the 21st century. As long as there are humans; the irrational will find its voices and means of spreading. Rationality is something to be acquired by individuals, not mass movements. Feeling superior is a sure sign that the irrational is at work." -Robert Greene
"Money gives its possessor the ability to give pleasure to others." -Robert Greene
"As many neuroscientists have affirmed, this evolution has led to the higher mammalian brain being composed of three parts. The oldest is the reptilian part of the brain, which controls all automatic responses that regulate the body. This is the instinctive part. Above that is the old mammalian or limbic brain, governing feeling and emotion. And on top of that has evolved the neocortex," -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: Displaying anger and emotion are signs of weakness; you cannot control yourself, so how can you control anything?" -Robert Greene
"As Winston Churchill said, 'Truth is so precious that she should always be attended by a bodyguard of lies." -Robert Greene
"Youth is happy because it has the capacity to see beauty. Anyone who keeps the ability to see beauty never grows old. —Franz Kafka" -Robert Greene
"It is a deadly but common misperception to believe that by displaying and vaunting your gifts and talents, you are winning the master’s affection. He may feign appreciation, but at his first opportunity he will replace you with someone less intelligent, less attractive, less threatening, just as Louis XIV replaced the sparkling Fouquet with the bland Colbert." -Robert Greene
"They experience it as an inner calling. It tends to dominate their thoughts and dreams. They find their way, by accident or sheer effort, to a career path in which this inclination can flourish." -Robert Greene
"What you want in the end is to internalize the voice of your Master so that you become both teacher and pupil." -Robert Greene
"Sometimes a powerful man will do the most irrational things, have an affair when it is least called for, just for a thrill, the danger of it all. The irrational can prove immensely seductive, even more so for men, who must always seem so reasonable." -Robert Greene
"As Baltasar Gracián remarks, 'The truth is generally seen, rarely heard." -Robert Greene
"we reason and plan to achieve a goal, but in the heat of action, we become emotional and lose perspective. We use cleverness and strategy to grab for what we want, but we do not stop to think about whether what we want is necessary or what the consequences of getting it will be" -Robert Greene
"When we unconsciously disconnect ourselves from the awareness of death, we forge a rather loose relationship with time. We image that we have more time than is reality. Our minds drift to the future, where all our hopes and wishes will be fulfilled." -Robert Greene
"Reputation is a treasure to be carefully collected and hoarded. Especially when you are first establishing it, you must protect it strictly, anticipating all attacks on it. Once it is solid, do not let yourself get angry or defensive at the slanderous comments of your enemies—that reveals insecurity, not confidence in your reputation. Take the high road instead, and never appear desperate in your self-defense." -Robert Greene
"People’s need for validation and recognition, their need to feel important, is the best kind of weakness to exploit. First, it is almost universal; second, exploiting it is so very easy." -Robert Greene
"The hyperfeminine woman will often be concealing a great deal of repressed anger and resentment at the role she has been forced to play. Her seductive, girlish behavior with men is actually a ploy for power, to tease, entrap, and hurt the target. Her masculine side will leak out in passive-aggressive behavior, attempts to dominate people in relationships in underhanded ways. Underneath the sweet, deferential façade, she can be quite willful and highly judgmental of others. Her willfulness, always under the surface, will come out in rather irrational stubbornness in petty matters." -Robert Greene
"My formula for greatness in a human being is amor fati: that one wants nothing to be other than it is, not in the future, not in the past, not in all eternity. Not merely to endure that which happens of necessity . . . but to love it. — FRIEDRICH NIETZSCHE" -Robert Greene
"You cannot worry about upsetting every person you come across, but you must be selectively cruel. If your superior is a falling star, there is nothing to fear from outshining him. Do not be merciful--your master had no such scruples in his own cold-blodded climb to the top. Gauge his strength. If he is weak, discreetly hasten his downfall: outdo, outcharm, outsmart him at key moments. If he is very weak and ready to fall, let nature take its course. Do not risk outshining a feeble superior--it might appear cruel or spiteful. But if your master is firm in his position, yet you know yourself to be the more capable, bide your time and be patient. IT is the natural course of things that power eventually fades and weakens. Your master will fall someday, and if you play it right, you will outlive and someday outshine him." -Robert Greene
"treat science as a kind of nine-to-five job; it was a competitive, cutthroat, almost corporate environment." -Robert Greene
"Test for Envy" -Robert Greene
"false path in life is generally something we are attracted to for the wrong reasons—money, fame, attention, and so on. If it is attention we need, we often experience a kind of emptiness inside that we are hoping to fill with the false love of public approval. Because the field we choose does not correspond with our deepest inclinations, we rarely find the fulfillment that we crave." -Robert Greene
"grasping at Option A as the single right answer, true strategy is positioning yourself to be able to do A, B, or C depending" -Robert Greene
"For, as Cicero says, even those who argue against fame still want the books they write against it to bear their name in the title and hope to become famous for despising it. Everything else is subject to barter: we will let our friends have our goods and our lives if need be; but a case of sharing our fame and making someone else the gift of our reputation is hardly to be found. Montaigne, 1533-1592" -Robert Greene
"Many take this change in value a step further, giving their passivity a positive veneer. They romanticize the self-destructive artist who loses control of him-or herself. Anything that smacks of discipline or effort seems fussy and passé: what matters is the feeling behind the artwork, and any hint of craftsmanship or work violates this principle. They come to accept things that are made cheaply and quickly. The idea that they might have to expend much effort to get what they want has been eroded by the proliferation of devices that do so much of the work for them, fostering the idea that they deserve all of this—that it is their inherent right to have and to consume what they want. 'Why bother working for years to attain mastery when we can have so much power with very little effort? Technology will solve everything.' This passivity has even assumed a moral stance: 'mastery and power are evil; they are the domain of patriarchal elites who oppress us; power is inherently bad; better to opt out of the system altogether,' or at least make it look that way." -Robert Greene
"The mentor-protégé relationship is the most efficient and productive form of learning. The right mentors know where to focus your attention and how to challenge you." -Robert Greene
"The novelist Stendhal, in his book On Love , calls this phenomenon ""crystallization,"" telling the story of how, in Salzburg, Austria, they used to throw a leafless branch into the abandoned depths of a salt mine in the middle of winter. When the branch was pulled out months later, it would be covered with spectacular crystals. That is what happens to a loved one in our minds." -Robert Greene
"In fact, it is a curse to have everything go right on your first attempt. You will fail to question the element of luck, making you think that you have the golden touch. When you do inevitably fail, it will confuse and demoralize you past the point of learning." -Robert Greene
"We see the results—our thoughts, moods, and actions—but have little conscious access to what actually moves our emotions and compels us to behave in certain ways." -Robert Greene
"Es una sencilla ley de la psicología humana que tus pensamientos tenderán a girar en torno a lo que más valoras. Si es el dinero, escogerás como sitio de aprendizaje el lugar que te ofrezca el sueldo más alto. Inevitablemente, sentirás ahí grandes presiones para demostrar que vales lo que se te paga, con frecuencia antes de estar preparado siquiera para hacerlo. Fijarás tu atención en ti mismo, tus inseguridades y la necesidad de complacer e impresionar a la gente indicada, no en adquirir habilidades. Cometer errores y aprender de ellos será tan costoso que desarrollarás un enfoque cauto, conservador. Al avanzar en la vida, te volverás adicto a un salario abultado y esto determinará la dirección que sigas, lo que pienses y lo que hagas. A la larga, el tiempo que no dedicaste a adquirir habilidades te cobrará la factura y tu caída será dolorosa." -Robert Greene
"Tear out my eyes, oh King, and fix them on the gate of Wu, so that I may see the triumphant entry of Yueh." -Robert Greene
"time. There seems to be no defining purpose to our lives. We are perhaps not conscious of this emptiness, but it infects us in all kinds of ways. Feeling that we are called to accomplish something is the most positive way for us to supply this sense of purpose and direction. It is a religious-like quest for each of us. This quest should not be seen as selfish or antisocial. It is in fact connected to something much larger than our individual lives. Our evolution as a species has depended on the creation of a tremendous diversity of skills and ways of thinking." -Robert Greene
"We like to scoff at the superstitious and irrational ideas that most people held in the seventeenth century. Imagine how those of the twenty-fifth century will scoff at ours. Our knowledge of the world is limited, despite the advances of science. Our ideas are conditioned by the prejudices instilled in us by our parents, by our culture, and by the historical period we live in. They are further limited by the increasing rigidity of the mind. A bit more humility about what we know would make us all more curious and interested in a wider range of ideas." -Robert Greene
"You must never disdain an apprenticeship with no pay. In fact, it is often the height of wisdom to find the perfect mentor and offer your services as an assistant for free." -Robert Greene
"A reasonable man in love may act like a madman, but he should not and cannot act like an idiot." -Robert Greene
"If they have success, a terrible momentum is set in place—more people are attracted to their leadership, which only inflates their grandiose tendencies. If anyone dares to challenge them, they are more prone than others to go into that deep narcissistic rage. They are hypersensitive. They also like to stir up constant drama as a means to justify their power—they are the only ones who can solve the problems they create. This also gives them more opportunities to be the center of attention. The workplace is never stable under their direction." -Robert Greene
"Let us look at the pedestrians in any busy city and realize that in ninety years it is likely that none of them will be alive, including us. Think of the millions and billions who have already come and gone, buried and long forgotten, rich and poor alike." -Robert Greene
"One thing is for certain: we are completely drawn to the authentic types and unconsciously repulsed by their opposite. The reason for this is simple: we all secretly mourn for the child part of our character we have lost—the wildness, the spontaneity, the intensity of experience, the open mind. Our overall energy is diminished by the loss. Those who emit that air of authenticity signal to us another possibility—that of being an adult who has managed to integrate the child and the adult, the dark and the light, the unconscious and the conscious mind." -Robert Greene
"Desperate to win the French over to the American cause and understanding their nature quite well, he had transformed himself into what they had wanted to see in him—the American version of the French spirit and way of life. He was appealing to their notorious narcissism." -Robert Greene
"In the end what you really must covet is a deeper relationship to reality, which will bring you calmness, focus, and practical powers to alter what it is possible to alter." -Robert Greene
"Los individuos con mucho tiempo en sus manos son extremadamente susceptibles a la seducción." -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: Instead of using this remarkable instrument as a means to get attention or to vent your rage and display your superiority, see the internet in this different light—an invitation to a fascinating journey inside a global brain and the surprises it can bring you by roaming freely in this vast space and making surprising connections." -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: Keep in mind that power lies in asserting your uniqueness, even if that offends some people along the way. Study your Shadow side today. The Laws of Human Nature, 9: Confront Your Dark Side—The Law of Repression" -Robert Greene
"What we need are not impossible and inhuman ideals of peace and cooperation to live up to, and the confusion that brings us, but rather practical knowledge on how to deal with conflict and the daily battles we face. And this knowledge is not about how to be more forceful in getting what we want or defending ourselves but rather how to be more rational and strategic when it comes to conflict, channeling our aggressive impulses instead of denying or repressing them. If there is an ideal to aim for, it should be that of the strategic warrior, the man or woman who manages difficult situations and people through deft and intelligent maneuver." -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: You must see your attempt at attaining mastery as something extremely necessary and positive. Mastery, I: Discover Your Calling—The Life’s Task" -Robert Greene
"Our relationship to time is more malleable than we think. Although we cannot stop the aging process or defy the ultimate reality of death, we can alter the experience of them, transforming what is painful and depressing into something much different. We can make time feel more cyclical than linear; we can even step outside the stream and experience forms of timelessness. We do not have to remain locked in the hold of our generation and its perspective." -Robert Greene
"man said to a Dervish: 'Why do I not see you more often?' The Dervish replied, 'Because the words ‘Why have you not been to see me?’ are sweeter to my ear than the words ‘Why have you come again?" -Robert Greene
"Try the thing you don’t think you’re quite ready for." -Robert Greene
"Alexander instinctively recognized that privileges of birth are impediments to power. Be merciless with the past, then—not only with your father and his father but with your own earlier achievements. Only the weak rest on their laurels and dote on past triumphs; in the game of power there is never time to rest." -Robert Greene
"It is even more damaging for a minister to say foolish things than to do them." -Robert Greene
"It is simple: Human nature is stronger than any individual, than any institution or technological invention. It ends up shaping what we create to reflect itself and its primitive roots. It moves us around like pawns." -Robert Greene
"Being self-reliant is critical. To make yourself less dependent on others and so-called experts, you need to expand your repertoire of skills." -Robert Greene
"We humans like to imagine that we have an objective knowledge of the world. We take it for granted that what we perceive on a daily basis is reality—this reality being more or less the same for everybody. But this is an illusion. No two people see or experience the world in the same way. What we perceive is our personal version of reality, one that is of our own creation. To realize this is a critical step in our understanding of human nature." -Robert Greene
"The formation of proper alliances was in some ways a more important art than that of warfare itself, and the statesmen adept at this art were more powerful than military leaders." -Robert Greene
"intended to convince people of one’s noble, good-hearted, selfless character. It is a form of persuasion, even a subtle form of coercion." -Robert Greene
"parsimony" -Robert Greene
"Человек существует лишь до той поры, пока он борется. Георг Вильгельм Фридрих Гегель (1770–1831)" -Robert Greene
"O caminho falso na vida é, em geral, algo a que somos atraídos por motivos equivocados – dinheiro, fama, atenção, e assim por diante. Se é de atenção que precisamos, em geral experimentamos uma espécie de vazio interior, que esperamos preencher com o falso amor" -Robert Greene
"Repeated failure will toughen your spirit and show you with absolute clarity how things must be done. In fact, it is a curse to have everything go right on your first attempt. You will fail to question the element of luck, making you think that you have the golden touch. When you do inevitably fail, it will confuse and demoralize you past the point of learning." -Robert Greene
"Power is a game—this cannot be repeated too often—and in games you do not judge your opponents by their intentions but by the effect of their actions." -Robert Greene
"Timidity has no place in the realm of power; you will often benefit, however, by being able to feign it. At that point, of course, it is no longer timidity but an offensive weapon: You are luring people in with your show of shyness, all the better to pounce on them boldly later." -Robert Greene
"There are two kinds of failure. The first comes from never trying out your ideas because you are afraid, or because you are waiting for the perfect time. This kind of failure you can never learn from, and such timidity will destroy you. The second kind comes from a bold and venturesome spirit. If you fail in this way, the hit that you take to your reputation is greatly outweighed by what you learn. Repeated failure will toughen your spirit and show you with absolute clarity how things must be done." -Robert Greene
"So accept envy as a badge of honor. Don’t be naive, be aware. When attacked by a moralist persecutor, do not be taken in by their crusade; it is motivated by envy, pure and simple. You can blunt it by being less of a Rake, asking forgiveness, claiming to have reformed, but this will damage your reputation, making you seem less lovably rakish. In the end, it is better to suffer attacks with dignity and keep on seducing." -Robert Greene
"Les gens jugent tout à l’apparence ; ce qui n’est pas visible ne compte pour rien. Ne vous laissez jamais noyer dans la foule ni sombrer dans l’oubli. Soyez à tout prix le point de mire, celui que l’on remarque. Faites-vous plus grand, plus chatoyant, plus mystérieux que la masse terne et morne, soyez l’aimant qui attire tous les regards." -Robert Greene
"Understand: we live in the world of a sad separation that began some five hundred years ago when art and science split apart. Scientists and technicians live in their own world, focusing mostly on the 'how' of things. Others live in the world of appearances, using these things but not really understanding how they function. Just before this split occurred, it was the ideal of the Renaissance to combine these two forms of knowledge." -Robert Greene
"It is an extremely human response to not look inward after a mistake or crime, but rather to look outward and to affix blame and guilt on a convenient object." -Robert Greene
"It takes patience and humility to dull your brilliant colors, to put on the mask of the inconspicuous. Do not despair at having to wear such a bland mask--it is often your unreadability that draws people to you and makes you appear a person of power." -Robert Greene
"Dealing with authority figures in the court tends to regress us to our childhood and the family dynamic. The way we adapted to our parents’ power and the presence of our siblings will play itself out again in adult form in the court. If we felt the deep need to please our parents in every way in order to feel more secure, we will become the pleaser type in the court. If we resented our siblings for the parental attention they drew away from us, and tried to dominate these siblings, we will be the envious type and resort to passive aggression. We may want to monopolize the leaders’ attention as we once tried to do with our mother or father." -Robert Greene
"You are angry. Let the feeling settle from within, and think about it. Was it triggered by something seemingly trivial or petty? That is a sure sign that something or someone else is behind it. Perhaps a more uncomfortable emotion is at the source—such as envy or paranoia. You need to look at this square in the eye. Dig below any trigger points to see where they started. For these purposes, it might be wise to use a journal in which you record your self-assessments with ruthless objectivity. Your greatest danger here is your ego and how it makes you unconsciously maintain illusions about yourself. These may be comforting in the moment, but in the long run they make you defensive and unable to learn or progress. Find a neutral position from which you can observe your actions, with a bit of detachment and even humor. Soon all of this will become second nature, and when the Emotional Self suddenly rears its head in some situation, you will see it as it happens and be able to step back and find that neutral position." -Robert Greene
"There are many different kinds of people in the world, and you can never assume that everyone will react to your strategies in the same way. Deceive or outmaneuver some people and they will spend the rest of their lives seeking revenge. They are wolves in lambs’ clothing. Choose your victims and opponents carefully, then—never offend or deceive the wrong person." -Robert Greene
"If strategy is the art of getting results, of putting ideas into practice, then it should be spread far and wide, particularly among those who have been traditionally kept ignorant of it, including women." -Robert Greene
"it is generally wise to try to gain the rudiments of social intelligence—to be able to read and recognize the sharks, and to charm and disarm difficult people." -Robert Greene
"These childhood attractions are hard to put into words and are more like sensations—that of deep wonder, sensual pleasure, power, and heightened awareness." -Robert Greene
"In 1917, during his later impoverished years, Tesla was told he was to receive the Edison Medal of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers. He turned the medal down. 'You propose,' he said, 'to honor me with a medal which I could pin upon my coat and strut for a vain hour before the members of your Institute. You would decorate my body and continue to let starve, for failure to supply recognition, my mind and its creative products, which have supplied the foundation upon which the major portion of your Institute exists." -Robert Greene
"To bring power, fantasy must remain to some degree unrealized, literally unreal." -Robert Greene
"To show your frustration is to show that you have lost your power to shape events; it is the helpless action of the child who resorts to a hysterical fit to get his way. The powerful never reveal this kind of weakness." -Robert Greene
"Like everyone, you think you are rational, but you are not. Rationality is not a power you are born with but one you acquire through training and practice." -Robert Greene
"Es mejor ser agredido o difamado que ignorado." -Robert Greene
"Reality is not brutal and ugly—it contains much that is sublime, beautiful, and worthy of wonder. We see this in the great works of other achievers. We want to have more encounters with the Sublime. Nothing is more awe-inspiring than the human brain itself—its complexity, its untapped potential. We want to realize some of that potential in our lives, not wallow in the cynical slacker attitude. We see a purpose behind everything that we experience and see. In the end, what we want is to fuse the curiosity and excitement we had toward the world as children, when almost everything seemed enchanting, with our adult intelligence." -Robert Greene
"Sometimes the best action is nonaction—let the dynamic play itself out to understand it better; let the enemy hang itself by its aggressive actions." -Robert Greene
"This reveals the power you have to short-circuit envy by placing attention on other people instead of yourself and engaging with them on a meaningful level." -Robert Greene
"clave para hacer que tus víctimas se sientan cómodas es ser su reflejo, adaptarse a sus estados de ánimo. Las personas son narcisistas; se sienten atraídas por quienes se parecen más a ellas. Hazles sentir que compartes sus valores y gustos, que comprendes su espíritu, y caerán bajo tu hechizo." -Robert Greene
"never inadvertently draw attention to the bothersome insect that will go away or die on its own." -Robert Greene
"Existence alone had never been enough for him; he had always wanted more. Perhaps it was only from the force of his desires that he had regarded himself as a man to whom more was permitted than to others. —Fyodor Dostoyevsky, Crime and Punishment" -Robert Greene
"...People get the mind and quality of brain that they deserve through their actions in life." -Robert Greene
"وإذا كان الخداع أكفأ سلاح في ترسانتك، فإن الصبر في كل الأشياء هو درعك الحساس الأهمية. فالصبر يحميك من ارتكاب الأخطاء الغبية." -Robert Greene
"Si quieres probar el carácter de un hombre, dale poder'." -Robert Greene
"Daily Law: Think more like a writer in approaching the people you deal with, even the worst sorts." -Robert Greene
"You can die from someone else's misery - emotional states are as infectious as diseases." -Robert Greene
"Authority: The shortest and best way to make your fortune is to let people see clearly that it is in their interests to promote yours. (Jean de La Bruyère, 1645-1696)" -Robert Greene
"It is the fool who always rushes to take sides. Do not commit to any side or cause but yourself." -Robert Greene
"Hesitation puts obstacles in your path, boldness eliminates them." -Robert Greene
"This process of hardwiring cannot occur if you are constantly distracted, moving from one task to another. In such a case, the neural pathways dedicated to this skill never get established; what you learn is too tenuous to remain rooted in the brain. It is better to dedicate two or three hours of intense focus to a skill than to spend eight hours of diffused concentration on it. You want to be as immediately present to what you are doing as possible." -Robert Greene
"In the realm of power, you must ask yourself, what is the point of chasing here and there, trying to solve problems and defeat my enemies, if I never feel in control? Why am I always having to react to events instead of directing them? The answer is simple: Your idea of power is wrong. You have mistaken aggressive action for effective action. And most often the most effective action is to stay back, keep calm, and let others be frustrated by the traps you lay for them, playing for long-term power rather than quick victory." -Robert Greene
"Appearance Bias I understand the people I deal with; I see them just as they are. We see people not as they are, but as they appear to us. And these appearances are usually misleading." -Robert Greene
"The essence of deception is distraction." -Robert Greene
"There are many roads to singularity, not all of them well traveled. The newest ones can be arduous, but they are often shortcuts to greatness. (Baltasar Gracián, 1601-1658)" -Robert Greene
"It" -Robert Greene
"Scene X" -Robert Greene
"And in life as in warfare, strategists will always prevail over tacticians." -Robert Greene
"On the eleventh day the vizier was called before the sultan, the charges were repeated, and the sultan watched as the vizier was tied up and thrown to the dogs. Yet when the beasts saw him, they ran up to him with wagging tails. They nibbled affectionately at his shoulders and began playing with him." -Robert Greene
"If one person stops to see your beggarman laying bricks in the street, more will do the same. They will gather like dust bunnies. Then, given a gentle push, they will enter your museum or watch your show. To create a crowd you have to do something different and odd. Any kind of curiosity will serve the purpose, for crowds are magnetically attracted by the unusual and inexplicable." -Robert Greene
"First, it is critical to recognize the spirit of the times. Fouché always looked two steps ahead, found the wave that would carry him to power, and rode it. You must always work with the times, anticipate twists and turns, and never miss the boat. Sometimes the spirit of the times is obscure: Recognize it not by what is loudest and most obvious in it, but by what lies hidden and dormant." -Robert Greene
"Rationality is something to be acquired by individuals, not by mass movements or technological progress." -Robert Greene
"Avoid the False Path At the center of your being you have the answer; you know who you are and you know what you want. —Lao Tzu" -Robert Greene
"When choosing people to work and associate with, do not be mesmerized by their reputation or taken in by the surface image they try to project. Instead, train yourself to look deep within them, to their past actions, to see their character." -Robert Greene
"Use the positive side of this emotional osmosis to advantage. If, for example, you are miserly by nature, you will never go beyond a certain limit; only generous souls attain greatness. Associate with the generous, then, and they will infect you, opening up everything that is tight and restricted in you. If you are gloomy, gravitate to the cheerful. If you are prone to isolation, force yourself to befriend the gregarious. Never associate with those who share your defects—they will reinforce everything that holds you back." -Robert Greene
"Reserva tu prudencia para las horas de la preparación; pero una vez empezado el combate, vacía tu mente de dudas. Ignora a quienes se acobardan ante cualquier revés y piden el repliegue." -Robert Greene