"1If it frightens you, do it.   2Don't settle. Every time you settle, you get exactly what you settled for.   3Put yourself first.   4No matter what happens, you will handle it.   5Whatever you do, do it 100%.   6If you do what you have always done, you will get what you have always got.   7You are the only person on this planet responsible for your needs, wants, and happiness.   8Ask for what you want.   9If what you are doing isn't working, try something different. 10Be clear and direct. 11Learn to say 'no.' 12Don't make excuses. 13If you are an adult, you are old enough to make your own rules. 14Let people help you. 15Be honest with yourself. 16Do not let anyone treat you badly. No one. Ever. 17Remove yourself from a bad situation instead of waiting for the situation to change. 18Don't tolerate the intolerable -- ever. 19Stop blaming. Victims never succeed. 20Live with integrity. Decide what feels right to you, then do it. 21Accept the consequences of your actions. 22Be good to yourself. 23Think 'abundance.' 24Face difficult situations and conflict head on. 25Don't do anything in secret. 26Do it now. 27Be willing to let go of what you have so you can get what you want. 28Have fun. If you are not having fun, something is wrong. 29Give yourself room to fail. There are no mistakes, only learning experiences. 30Control is an illusion. Let go; let life happen. It" Robert A. Glover
"There are no perfect relationships. There are no perfect partners. Relationships by their very nature are chaotic, eventful, and challenging." Robert A. Glover
"Just about everything a Nice Guy does is consciously or unconsciously calculated to gain someone's approval or to avoid disapproval." Robert A. Glover
"What one man can do, another man can do." Robert A. Glover
"there is plenty for everyone. Everything we need is flowing by us -- all we have to do is get out of the way of our own small thinking and let it come. Look" Robert A. Glover
"In dog obedience school we learned that if you want an undesirable behavior to go away, you stop paying attention to it." Robert A. Glover
"An integrated male possesses many of the following attributes: -He has a strong sense of self. He likes himself just as he is. -He takes responsibility for getting his own needs met. -He is comfortable with his masculinity and his sexuality. -He has integrity. He does what is right, not what is expedient. -He is a leader. He is willing to provide for and protect those he cares about. -He is clear, direct, and expressive of his feelings. -He can be nurturing and giving without caretaking or problem-solving. -He knows how to set boundaries and is not afraid to work through conflict." Robert A. Glover
"Relationships are messy and there is no way to eliminate the bumps and potholes, but we don't have to make them any more difficult than they already are." Robert A. Glover
"List one fear that has been controlling your life. Once you decide to confront the fear, begin repeating to yourself, 'I can handle it. No matter what happens, I will handle it.' Keep repeating this mantra until you take action and stop feeling fear." Robert A. Glover
"Discovering passion and purpose requires figuring out what works and what doesn't. Mature, successful people establish their on rules. These rules are measured by only one standard: do they work?" Robert A. Glover
"In reality, the primary paradigm of the Nice Guy Syndrome is nothing more than a big covert contract with life. Breaking" Robert A. Glover
"By trying to please everyone, Nice Guys often end up pleasing no one -- including themselves. Seeking" Robert A. Glover
"When recovering Nice Guys decide they will no longer settle for anything less than good sex, they begin to take responsibility for doing something different. -​They let go of the concept of being a great lover. -​They practice being clear and direct. -​They choose available partners. -​They don't settle for scraps. -​They decide that bad sex is not better than no sex!" Robert A. Glover
"Surrendering Helps Nice Guys Reclaim Their Personal Power Ironically, the most important aspect of reclaiming personal power and getting what one wants in love and life is surrender. Surrender doesn't mean giving up, it means letting go of what one can't change and changing what one can. Letting go doesn't mean not caring or not trying. Letting go means letting be. It is like opening up a tightly clenched fist and releasing the tension stored inside. At first the fingers will want to return to their former clenched position. The hand almost has to be retrained to open up and relax. So it is with learning how to surrender and let go." Robert A. Glover
"covert contracts and caretaking only lead to frustration and resentment." Robert A. Glover
"Fathers need to take their sons hunting and fishing, work on cars with them, take them to work, coach their teams, take them to ball games, work out with them, take them on business trips, and let them tag along with them when they go out with the guys. All of these activities help boys move successfully into the male world. This process is not just limited to a man's biological sons. Nice Guys can get involved with young relatives, scouts, sports teams, school activities, or big brothers." Robert A. Glover
"I'm a chameleon,' revealed Todd, a 30-year-old single Nice Guy. 'I will become whatever I believe a person wants me to be in order to be liked. With my smart friends I act intelligent and use a big vocabulary. Around my mother, I look like the perfect loving son. With my dad, I talk sports. With the guys at work I cuss and swear … whatever it takes to look cool. Underneath it all, I'm not sure who I really am or if any of them would like me just for who I am. If I can't figure out what people want me to be, I'm afraid I will be all alone. The funny thing is, I feel alone most of the time anyway." Robert A. Glover
"I define personal power as a state of mind in which a person is confident he can handle whatever may come. This kind of power not only successfully deals with problems, challenges and adversity, it actually welcomes them, meets them head on, and is thankful for them. Personal power isn't the absence of fear. Even the most powerful people have fear. Personal power is the result of feeling fear, but not giving in to the fear." Robert A. Glover
"Toxic shame is the belief that one is inherently bad, defective, different, or unlovable. Toxic shame is not just a belief that one does bad things, it is a deeply held core belief that one is bad. Survival" Robert A. Glover
"He came to realize that he would be OK regardless of whether he and Barb made it as a couple. Much to his surprise, their relationship began to improve. As he let go of trying to solve her problems and detached from her moods, Gil found that he had fewer frustrations and resentments. He even began to see Barb as a 'gift' to help him work through his issues with his angry father. A year later he announced to his men's group that he and Barb had set a date to get married. He reported that they were getting along better than he would have ever imagined. He shared that the turning point seemed to be when he made the decision that he didn't care whether they made it together or not. That decision represented a conscious letting go of trying to control something that was clearly not in his control. Ironically, he shared that the process of letting go allowed him to receive what he really wanted." Robert A. Glover
"Breaking Free Activity #15 It can be difficult to make a direct link between your caretaking behavior and the emotional pukes which inevitably follow. Observe the ways you hurt the people you love. -Do you make cutting remarks or hurtful 'jokes'? -Do you embarrass them in public? -Are you frequently late? -Do you 'forget' things they've asked you to do? -Do you criticize them? -Do you withdraw from them or threaten to leave? -Do you let frustration build until you blow up at them? Ask the significant others in your life to give you feedback about your caretaking and emotional pukes. This information may be hard to hear and may trigger a shame attack, but it is important information for breaking out of the victim triangle." Robert A. Glover
"Surrender allows recovering Nice Guys to see each life experience as a 'gift' from the universe to stimulate growth, healing and learning. Instead of asking, 'Why is this happening to me?' the recovering Nice Guy can respond to life's challenges by pondering, 'What do I need to learn from this situation?" Robert A. Glover
"A Force Of Nature The very thing that makes sex so exciting is exactly what makes it so terrifying. Sex is powerful, chaotic, and wild. It crackles with cosmic energy. It draws us like a moth to a flame. As recovering Nice Guys release their sexual shame and fear, take responsibility for their own pleasure, refuse to settle for bad sex, and practice being just who they are, they put themselves in the position to embrace this cosmic force without fear or reservation. This is when the sex really gets good." Robert A. Glover
"In many ways, humans aren't much different from pets. People often behave the way they have been trained to behave. For example, if a person gives his dog a treat when he pisses on the carpet, the dog will keep pissing on the carpet. The same is true for humans. If the Nice Guy reinforces his partner's undesirable behaviors, she will keep behaving in undesirable ways." Robert A. Glover
"Good sex consists of two people taking full responsibility for meeting their own needs. It has no goal. It is free of agendas and expectations. Rather than being a performance, it is an unfolding of sexual energy. It is about two people revealing themselves in the most intimate and vulnerable of ways. Good sex occurs when two people focus on their own pleasure, passion, and arousal, and stay connected to those same things in their partner. All of these dynamics allow good sex to unfold in unpredictable, spontaneous, and memorable ways." Robert A. Glover
"Telling the truth is not a magic formula for having a smooth life. But living a life of integrity is actually easier than living one built around deceit and distortion." Robert A. Glover
"The following are a few of the ways Nice Guys unconsciously maintain a monogamous bond to their mothers. Look over the list. Note any of the behavior patterns that may serve to keep you monogamous to your mother. Share this information with a safe person. -​Over-involvement with work or hobbies. -​Creating relationships with people who need fixing. -​Addictions to drugs or alcohol. -​Sexual addictions to pornography, masturbation, fantasy, chat lines, or hookers. -​Affairs. -​Sexual dysfunction -- lack of desire, inability to get or maintain an erection, or premature ejaculation. -​Forming relationships with women who are angry, sick, depressive, compulsive, addicted, unfaithful, or otherwise unavailable. -​Avoiding intercourse or taking vows of celibacy." Robert A. Glover
"Most Nice Guys will really like the last benefit on the list. Helpless, whiny, wimpy, and needy are not attractive on a man. Confidence and self-assurance are. Most folks are attracted to men who have a sense of self. Putting the self first doesn't drive people away, it attracts them. Putting the self first is essential for getting what one wants in love and life. Taking" Robert A. Glover
"Self-respect, courage, and integrity look good on a man. As recovering Nice Guys chart their own" Robert A. Glover
"One client, who hadn't had sex with his wife in 14 months, shared in a Nice Guy group that he was tired of listening to his wife complain about her work problems. That night, for the first time in 15 years of marriage, he told his wife that he was too tired to listen. Even though she was initially angry, later that night she asked him if he wanted to make love." Robert A. Glover
"Nice Guys are wimps. This may not sound like a nice thing to say, but it's true. Nice Guys tend to be wimpy victims because their life paradigm and childhood survival mechanisms require them to sacrifice their personal power." Robert A. Glover
"These aspects of masculinity include strength, discipline, courage, passion, persistence, and integrity." Robert A. Glover
"As they become aware of how much time and energy they spend trying to garner approval, they can begin living an inside-out kind of life. This means, rather than focusing outward for acceptance and approval, they turn inward. In doing so, they can begin asking themselves the important questions: 'What do I want,' 'What feels right to me,' 'What would make me happy?" Robert A. Glover
"As a result of this dependency, every child's greatest fear is abandonment. To children, abandonment means death. Second," Robert A. Glover
"Self-respect, courage, and integrity look good on a man. As recovering Nice Guys chart their own" Robert A. Glover
"Most Nice Guys will really like the last benefit on the list. Helpless, whiny, wimpy, and needy are not attractive on a man. Confidence and self-assurance are. Most folks are attracted to men who have a sense of self. Putting the self first doesn't drive people away, it attracts them. Putting the self first is essential for getting what one wants in love and life. Taking" Robert A. Glover
"One client, who hadn't had sex with his wife in 14 months, shared in a Nice Guy group that he was tired of listening to his wife complain about her work problems. That night, for the first time in 15 years of marriage, he told his wife that he was too tired to listen. Even though she was initially angry, later that night she asked him if he wanted to make love." Robert A. Glover
"-​IF I can hide my flaws and become what I think others want me to be -​THEN I will be loved, get my needs met, and have a problem-free life." Robert A. Glover
"As long as a Nice Guy is willing to settle for bad sex, he limits his opportunities to experience good sex. I regularly tell Nice Guys, 'You have to be willing to let go of what you've got to get what you want.' Good sex can occur only when a recovering" Robert A. Glover
"Many of these mothers raised their daughters to not need a man. At" Robert A. Glover
"Do you believe that people can see your human imperfections and still love you? How would you be different if you knew the people who care about you would never leave you or stop loving you -- no matter what?" Robert A. Glover
"all Nice Guys developed the same paradigm: 'If I am good, then I will be loved, get my needs met, and have a problem-free life." Robert A. Glover
"recovering Nice Guys will change the way they have relationships. Nice Guys can: -​Approve of themselves. -​Put themselves first. -​Reveal themselves to safe people. -​Eliminate covert contracts. -​Take responsibility for their own needs. -​Surrender. -​Dwell in reality. -​Express their feelings. -​Develop integrity. -​Set boundaries. -​Embrace their masculinity." Robert A. Glover
"Decisions are now made by one individual, rather than by a committee. He no longer has to mind read, predict, or try to please multiple voices with conflicting agendas. When putting himself first all the information he needs to make a decision is within him: 'Is this what I want? Yes. Then that's what I'll do." Robert A. Glover
"As long as a Nice Guy is willing to settle for bad sex, he limits his opportunities to experience good sex. I regularly tell Nice Guys, 'You have to be willing to let go of what you've got to get what you want.' Good sex can occur only when a recovering Nice Guy decides to stop settling for bad sex!" Robert A. Glover
"Helpless, whiny, wimpy, and needy are not attractive on a man. Confidence and self-assurance are attractive. Most folks are attracted to men who have a sense of self. Putting the self first doesn't drive people away, it attracts them. Putting the self first is essential for getting what one wants in love and life." Robert A. Glover
"If he asks himself what he believes is right but doesn't do it, he is also out of integrity. Only by asking himself what he believes is right and then doing it does he become a man of integrity." Robert A. Glover
"Giving to get creates a cycle of craziness called the victim triangle. The victim triangle consists of three predictable sequences: 1) The Nice Guy gives to others hoping to get something in return. 2) When it doesn't seem that he is getting as much as he gives or he isn't getting what he expected, he feels frustrated and resentful. Remember, the Nice Guy is the one keeping score and he isn't totally objective. 3) When this frustration and resentment builds up long enough, it spills out in the form of rage attacks, passive-aggressive behavior, pouting, tantrums, withdrawing, shaming, criticizing, blaming, even physical abuse. Once the cycle has been completed, it usually just begins all over again." Robert A. Glover
"By trying to please everyone, Nice Guys often end up pleasing no one -- including themselves." Robert A. Glover
"In time, they also learn that boundary setting isn't about getting other people to be different. It's about getting themselves to be different. If someone is crossing their boundary, it isn't the other person's problem; it is theirs." Robert A. Glover
"In an attempt to cope with their childhood abandonment experiences, all Nice Guys developed the same paradigm: 'If I am good, then I will be loved, get my needs met, and have a problem-free life.' Unfortunately, this paradigm not only produces the opposite of what is desired, it guarantees nothing but feelings of perpetual powerlessness." Robert A. Glover
"Breaking Free Activity #39 Consider going on a sexual moratorium. Consciously refrain from sex for a predetermined period of time. No matter what your sexual situation is, it can be a powerful learning experience. Most guys initially resist the idea, but once they make the decision to do it, they find it to be a very positive experience. A sexual moratorium can have many benefits: -​Helps break dysfunction cycles. -​Eliminates pursuing and distancing. -​Releases resentment. -​Allows the Nice Guy to see that he can live without sex. -​Helps the Nice Guy realize that no one else but him holds the key to his sexual experience. -​Helps the Nice Guy see how he settles for bad sex. -​Eliminates fear that the Nice Guy's partner can withhold sex or approval. -​Helps the Nice Guy pay attention to the meaning of sexual impulses. Whenever the Nice Guy feels the impulse to be sexual, he can automatically ask himself, 'Why am I feeling sexual?' -​Helps break addictive patterns by eliminating compulsive masturbation, pornography, and other addictive behaviors. -​Helps the Nice Guy begin to address feelings he has been avoiding with sex. Before beginning a sexual moratorium, discuss it with your partner. It helps to set a specific time. I suggest three to six months. It can be done. Decide on the parameters of the moratorium. Once you have begun, pay attention to slips and sabotaging behaviors, from both you and your partner. Remember, it is a learning experience. You don't have to do it perfectly." Robert A. Glover
"Do you make cutting remarks or hurtful 'jokes'? -​Do you embarrass them in public? -​Are you frequently late? -​Do you 'forget' things they've asked you to do? -​Do you criticize them? -​Do you withdraw from them or threaten to leave? -​Do you let frustration build until you blow up at them? Ask the significant others in your life to give you feedback about your caretaking and emotional pukes. This information may be hard to hear and may trigger a shame attack, but it is important information for breaking out of the victim triangle." Robert A. Glover
"Recovery from the Nice Guy Syndrome is dependent on revealing one's self and receiving support from safe people. It is essential, therefore, that men who want to break free from the Nice Guy Syndrome find safe people to assist them in this process." Robert A. Glover
"Later, Elizabeth revealed to me (and several of her friends) how much safer she felt when I had my feelings. She was able to hear that I was upset about the car but that I didn't think she was bad, and I wasn't going to abandon her. The fact that I had such intensity about not letting her push me away actually made her feel secure and loved. As a result, she felt safe to stay connected to me and hear my feelings about the car." Robert A. Glover
"Like his mother, his wife was only attentive when she was emotionally needy. Like his father, she could be critical and controlling. By applying his childhood road map to his marriage--trying to do everything right, being attentive and nurturing, never being a moment's problem, hiding his mistakes--Jason created an illusion that he could get his wife to approve of him all the time, be sexually available whenever he wanted, and never get mad at him. His defective paradigm prevented him from seeing that no matter what he did, his wife would still at times be cold, critical, and unavailable, and that maybe he needed her to be that way." Robert A. Glover
"Personal power is the result of feeling fear, but not giving in to the fear. There is a solution to the helplessness and vulnerability Nice Guys feel. Recovery from the Nice Guy Syndrome allows Nice Guys to embrace the personal power that is their birthright. Reclaiming personal power includes: -​Surrendering. -​Dwelling in reality. -​Expressing feelings. -​Facing fears. -​Developing integrity. -​Setting boundaries." Robert A. Glover
"Humans connect with humans. Hiding one's humanity and trying to project an image of perfection makes a person vague, slippery, lifeless, and uninteresting. I often refer to Nice Guys as Teflon Men. They work so hard to be smooth, nothing can stick to them. Unfortunately, this Teflon coating also makes it difficult for people to get close. It is actually a person's rough edges and human imperfections that give others something to connect with." Robert A. Glover
"Beneath this facade of needlessness and wantlessness, all Nice Guys are actually extremely needy. Consequently, when they go about trying to get their needs met, Nice Guys are frequently indirect, unclear, manipulative, and controlling." Robert A. Glover
"will become whatever I believe a person wants me to be in order to be liked. With" Robert A. Glover
"What do I think is right?' or uses the committee method, he will always be out of integrity. If he asks himself what he believes is right but doesn't do it, he is also out of integrity. Only by asking himself what he believes is right and then doing it does he become a man of integrity." Robert A. Glover
"The unpredictability of not having their needs met in a timely, judicious fashion was not only frightening, it was potentially life-threatening." Robert A. Glover
"Helpless, whiny, wimpy, and needy are not attractive on a man. Confidence and self-assurance are. Most folks are attracted to men who have a sense of self. Putting the self first doesn't drive people away, it attracts them. Putting the self first is essential for getting what one wants in love and life." Robert A. Glover
"I have found Nice Guys to be prone to hidden, compulsive sexual behavior. I have developed a theory that states, the nicer the guy, the darker the sexual secrets. I find this to be consistently true. Sex is a basic human drive. Because most Nice Guys believe they are bad for being sexual, or believe that other people will think they are bad, sexual impulses have to be kept hidden from view." Robert A. Glover
"Developing integrity is an essential part of recovery from the Nice Guy Syndrome. My definition of integrity is 'deciding what feels right and doing it." Robert A. Glover
"I define masculinity as that part of a man that equips him to survive as an individual, clan, and species. Without this masculine energy we would have all become extinct eons ago. Masculinity empowers a man to create and produce. It also empowers him provide for and protect those who are important to him." Robert A. Glover
"A year later he announced to his men's group that he and Barb had set a date to get married. He reported that they were getting along better than he would have ever imagined. He shared that the turning point seemed to be when he made the decision that he didn't care whether they made it together or not. That decision represented a conscious letting go of trying to control something that was clearly not in his control. Ironically, he shared that the process of letting go allowed him to receive what he really wanted." Robert A. Glover
"Choose one area in which you have been out of integrity. Identify your fear that keeps you from telling the truth or doing the right thing. Reveal this situation to a safe person. Then go and tell the truth or do what you have to do to make the situation right. Tell yourself you can handle it. Since telling the truth may create a crisis for you or others, have faith that everyone involved will survive this crisis." Robert A. Glover
"Ask a friend or family member to do the same. I know several people who keep a gratitude stone in their pocket. Every time they put their hand in their pocket and touch the stone or remove it from their pocket, they think about things for which they are grateful." Robert A. Glover
"The seeking of external validation is just one way in which Nice Guys frequently do the opposite of what works. By trying to please everyone, Nice Guys often end up pleasing no one--including themselves." Robert A. Glover
"Nice Guys have a difficult time comprehending that in general, people are not drawn to perfection in others. People are drawn to shared interests, shared problems, and an individual's life energy." Robert A. Glover
"Chameleons usually don't draw much of a crowd or get many ovations. By" Robert A. Glover
"It is actually a person's rough edges and human imperfections that give others something to connect with." Robert A. Glover
"An integrated male doesn't strive to be perfect or gain the approval of others. Instead, he accepts himself just as he is, warts and all. An integrated male accepts that he is perfectly imperfect." Robert A. Glover
"Being integrated means being able to accept all aspects of one's self. An integrated man is able to embrace everything that makes him unique: his power, his assertiveness, his courage, and his passion, as well as his imperfections, his mistakes, and his dark side." Robert A. Glover
"Nice Guys are terrified of two kinds of feelings -- their own and everyone else's. Any kind of intensity causes Nice Guys to feel out of control." Robert A. Glover
"Interestingly enough, when Nice Guys take responsibility for their own needs and make them a priority, those around them benefit too. Gone are the covert contracts, the guessing games, the anger outbursts, and passive-aggressive behavior. Gone are the manipulation, the controlling behavior, and the resentment. I learned this lesson first-hand a few years back." Robert A. Glover
"As Nice Guys stop seeking approval and stop trying to hide their perceived flaws, they open a door to start getting what they really want in love and life." Robert A. Glover
"The progression from perfect little boy to Nice Guy basically occurs in three stages: abandonment, internalization of toxic shame, and the creation of survival mechanisms." Robert A. Glover
"women, security means not having to guess what a man is thinking or where he wants to go. Furthermore, it means not having to take responsibility for making all the decisions and not having to take charge." Robert A. Glover
"What gets us into trouble is not what don't know. It's what we know for sure that just ain't so.' - Mark Twain" Robert A. Glover
"A Distorted Self-Image PreventsNice Guys From Getting the Life They Want Because their needs were not met in a timely, judicious fashion in childhood, Nice Guys developed a distorted view of themselves. With a naive, immature logic they came to the conclusion that if their needs were not important, neither were they. This is the basis of their toxic shame. At their core, all Nice Guys believe they are not important or good enough. If a Nice Guy was called on to take care of a critical, needy, or dependent parent, he received a double dose of toxic shame. A child believes he should be able to please a critical parent, fix the problems of a depressed parent, and meet the needs of a smothering parent. Unfortunately, he can't. As a result of their inability to fix, please, or take care of one or more parents, many Nice Guys developed a deep-seated sense of inadequacy." Robert A. Glover
"handing his paycheck over to Susan to control, he began giving himself an allowance to spend how he" Robert A. Glover
"Life isn't a merry-go-round, it's a roller coaster." Robert A. Glover
"They're really not trying to protect anyone from harm, they're just trying to keep their world smooth and under control. I" Robert A. Glover
"Since Nice Guys learned to sacrifice themselves in order to survive, recovery must center on learning to put themselves first and making their needs a priority." Robert A. Glover
"define personal power as a state of mind in which a person is confident he can handle whatever may come. This kind of power not only successfully deals with problems, challenges and adversity, it actually welcomes them, meets them head on, and is thankful for them. Personal power isn't the absence of fear. Even the most powerful people have fear. Personal power is the result of feeling fear, but not giving in to the fear." Robert A. Glover
"■​If I can hide my flaws and become what I think others want me to be, then I will be loved, get my needs met, and have a problem-free life" Robert A. Glover