"If you find yourself asking yourself (and your friends), 'Am I really a writer? Am I really an artist?' chances are you are. The counterfeit innovator is wildly self-confident. The real one is scared to death." -Steven Pressfield
"Are you paralyzed with fear? That’s a good sign. Fear is good. Like self-doubt, fear is an indicator. Fear tells us what we have to do. Remember one rule of thumb: the more scared we are of a work or calling, the more sure we can be that we have to do it." -Steven Pressfield
"Our job in this life is not to shape ourselves into some ideal we imagine we ought to be, but to find out who we already are and become it." -Steven Pressfield
"The most important thing about art is to work. Nothing else matters except sitting down every day and trying." -Steven Pressfield
"We must do our work for its own sake, not for fortune or attention or applause." -Steven Pressfield
"The Principle of Priority states (a) you must know the difference between what is urgent and what is important, and (b) you must do what’s important first." -Steven Pressfield
"This is the other secret that real artists know and wannabe writers don’t. When we sit down each day and do our work, power concentrates around us. The Muse takes note of our dedication. She approves. We have earned favor in her sight. When we sit down and work, we become like a magnetized rod that attracts iron filings. Ideas come. Insights accrete." -Steven Pressfield
"A cavalryman's horse should be smarter than he is. But the horse must never be alowed to know this." -Steven Pressfield
"The artist committing himself to his calling has volunteered for hell, whether he knows it or not. He will be dining for the duration on a diet of isolation, rejection, self-doubt, despair, ridicule, contempt, and humiliation." -Steven Pressfield
"Are you a born writer? Were you put on earth to be a painter, a scientist, an apostle of peace? In the end the question can only be answered by action.Do it or don't do it.It may help to think of it this way. If you were meant to cure cancer or write a symphony or crack cold fusion and you don't do it, you not only hurt yourself, even destroy yourself,. You hurt your children. You hurt me. You hurt the planet.You shame the angels who watch over you and you spite the Almighty, who created you and only you with your unique gifts, for the sole purpose of nudging the human race one millimeter farther along its path back to God.Creative work is not a selfish act or a bid for attention on the part of the actor. It's a gift to the world and every being in it. Don't cheat us of your contribution. Give us what you've got." -Steven Pressfield
"A child has no trouble believing the unbelievable, nor does the genius or the madman. It’s only you and I, with our big brains and our tiny hearts, who doubt and overthink and hesitate." -Steven Pressfield
"We fear discovering that we are more than we think we are. More than our parents/children/teachers think we are. We fear that we actually possess the talent that our still, small voice tells us. That we actually have the guts, the perseverance, the capacity. We fear that we truly can steer our ship, plant our flag, reach our Promised Land. We fear this because, if it’s true, then we become estranged from all we know. We pass through a membrane. We become monsters and monstrous." -Steven Pressfield
"Fear is good. Like self-doubt, fear is an indicator. Fear tells us what we have to do. Remember our rule of thumb: The more scared we are of a work or calling, the more sure we can be that we have to do it. Resistance is experienced as fear; the degree of fear equates to the strength of Resistance. Therefore the more fear we feel about a specific enterprise, the more certain we can be that that enterprise is important to us and to the growth of our soul. That's why we feel so much Resistance. If it meant nothing to us, there'd be no Resistance." -Steven Pressfield
"Fear doesn't go away. The warrior and the artist live by the same code of necessity, which dictates that the battle must be fought anew every day." -Steven Pressfield
"A king does not abide within his tent while his men bleed and die upon the field. A king does not dine while his men go hungry, nor sleep when they stand at watch upon the wall. A king does not command his men's loyalty through fear nor purchase it with gold; he earns their love by the sweat of his own back and the pains he endures for their sake. That which comprises the harshest burden, a king lifts first and sets down last. A king does not require service of those he leads but provides it to them...A king does not expend his substance to enslave men, but by his conduct and example makes them free." -Steven Pressfield
"This man has conquered the world! What have you done?'The philosopher replied without an instant's hesitation, 'I have conquered the need to conquer the world." -Steven Pressfield
"Most of us have two lives. The life we live, and the unlived life within us. Between the two stands Resistance." ,Steven Pressfield
"It’s better to be in the arena, getting stomped by the bull, than to be up in the stands or out in the parking lot." -Steven Pressfield
"A horse must be a bit mad to be a good cavalry mount, and its rider must be completely so." -Steven Pressfield
"O Divine Poesy, goddess, daughter of Zeus, sustain for me this song of the various-minded man who, after he had plundered the innermost citadel of hallowed Troy, was made to stay grievously about the coasts of men, the sport of their customs, good and bad, while his heart, through all the sea-faring, ached with an agony to redeem himself and bring his company safe home. Vain hope – for them. The fools! Their own witlessness cast them aside. To destroy for meat the oxen of the most exalted Sun, wherefore the Sun-god blotted out the day of their return. Make this tale live for us in all its many bearings, O Muse." – from Homer’s Odyssey, translation by T.E. Lawrence (Lawrence of Arabia)" -Steven Pressfield
"Of any activity you do, ask yourself: If I were the last person on earth, would I still do it?" -Steven Pressfield
"Someone once asked Somerset Maughham if he wrote on a schedule or only when struck by inspiration. 'I write only when inspiration strikes,' he replied. 'Fortunately it strikes every morning at nine o'clock sharp." -Steven Pressfield
". . . None of us are born as passive generic blobs waiting for the world to stamp its imprint on us. Instead we show up possessing already a highly refined and individuated soul.Another way of thinking of it is: We're not born with unlimited choices.We can't be anything we want to be.We come into this world with a specific, personal destiny. We have a job to do, a calling to enact, a self to become. We are who we are from the cradle, and we're stuck with it.Our job in this lifetime is not to shape ourselves into some ideal we imagine we ought to be, but to find out who we already are and become it." -Steven Pressfield
"Resistance is always lying and always full of shit." -Steven Pressfield
"The most pernicious aspect of procrastination is that it can become a habit. We don't just put off our lives today; we put them off till our deathbed.Never forget: This very moment, we can change our lives. There never was a moment, and never will be, when we are without the power to alter our destiny. This second we can turn the tables on Resistance.This second, we can sit down and do our work." -Steven Pressfield
"The professional has learned that success, like happiness, comes as a by-product of work. The professional concentrates on the work and allows rewards to come or not come, whatever they like." -Steven Pressfield
"Go tell the Spartans, stranger passing by, that here obedient to their laws we lie." -Steven Pressfield
"Rule of thumb: The more important a call or action is to our soul's evolution, the Resistance we will feel toward pursuing it." -Steven Pressfield
"Creative work is not a selfish act or a bid for attention on the part of the actor. It's a gift to the world and every being in it. Don't cheat us of your contribution. Give us what you've got." ,Steven Pressfield
"Nothing fires the warrior’s heart more with courage than to find himself and his comrades at the point of annihilation, at the brink of being routed and overrun, and then to dredge not merely from one’s own bowels or guts but from one’s discipline and training the presence of mind not to panic, not to yield to the possession of despair, but instead to complete those homely acts of order which Dienekes had ever declared the supreme accomplishment of the warrior: to perform the commonplace under far-from-commonplace conditions." -Steven Pressfield
"The hardship of the exercises is intended less to strengthen the back than to toughen the mind. The Spartans say that any army may win while it still has its legs under it; the real test comes when all strength is fled and the men must produce victory on will alone." -Steven Pressfield
"To labor in the arts for any reason other than love is prostitution." -Steven Pressfield
"You have never tasted freedom, friend,' Dienekes spoke, 'or you would know it is purchased not with gold, but steel." -Steven Pressfield
"The professional learns to recognize envy-driven criticism and to take it for what it is: the supreme compliment. The critic hates most that which he would have done himself if he had had the guts." -Steven Pressfield
"The artist cannot look to others to validate his efforts or his calling. If you don't believe me, ask Van Gogh, who produced masterpiece after masterpiece and never found a buyer in his whole life." -Steven Pressfield
"The sign of the amateur is overglorification of and preoccupation with the mystery. The professional shuts up. She doesn't talk about it. She does her work." -Steven Pressfield
"Start before you're ready." -Steven Pressfield
"The opposite of fear is love - love of the challenge, love of the work, the pure joyous passion to take a shot at our dream and see if we can pull it off." -Steven Pressfield
"The professional loves her work. She is invested in it wholeheartedly. But she does not forget that the work is not her." -Steven Pressfield
"If you're are paralyzed with fear it's a good sign. It shows you what you have to do." ,Steven Pressfield
"We’re all pros already. 1) We show up every day 2) We show up no matter what 3) We stay on the job all day 4) We are committed over the long haul 5) The stakes for us are high and real 6) We accept remuneration for our labor 7) We do not overidentify with our jobs 8 ) We master the technique of our jobs 9) We have a sense of humor about our jobs 10) We receive praise or blame in the real world" -Steven Pressfield
"Resistance by definition is self-sabotage." -Steven Pressfield
"The amateur believes he must first overcome his fear; then he can do his work. The professional knows that fear can never be overcome. He knows there is no such thing as a fearless warrior or a dread-free artist." ,Steven Pressfield
"Next morning I went over to Paul’s for coffee and told him I had finished. "Good for you," he said without looking up. "Start the next one today." -Steven Pressfield
"A work-in-progress generates its own energy field. You, the artist or entrepreneur, are pouring love into the work; you are suffusing it with passion and intention and hope." -Steven Pressfield
"The song we’re composing already exists in potential. Our work is to find it." -Steven Pressfield
"The opposite of fear,' Dienekes said, 'is love." -Steven Pressfield
"The sure sign of an amateur is he has a million plans and they all start tomorrow." -Steven Pressfield
"When a warrior fights not for himself, but for his brothers, when his most passionately sought goal is neither glory nor his own life's preservation, but to spend his substance for them, his comrades, not to abandon them, not to prove unworthy of them, then his heart truly has achieved contempt for death, and with that he transcends himself and his actions touch the sublime. That is why the true warrior cannot speak of battle save to his brothers who have been there with him. The truth is too holy, too sacred, for words.' -Suicide (Gates of Fire)" ,Steven Pressfield
"War, not peace, produces virtue. War, not peace, purges vice. War, and preparation for war, call forth all that is noble and honorable in a man. It unites him with his brothers and binds them in selfless love, eradicating in the crucible of necessity all which is base and ignoble. There in the holy mill of murder the meanest of men may seek and find that part of himself, concealed beneath the corrupt, which shines forth brilliant and virtuous, worthy of honor before the gods. Do not despise war, my young friend, nor delude yourself that mercy and compassion are virtues superior to andreia, to manly valor." -Steven Pressfield
"Our job in this lifetime is not to shape ourselves into some ideal we imagine we ought to be, but to find out who we already are and become it." -Steven Pressfield
"The artist and the mother are vehicles, not originators. They don't create the new life, they only bear it. This is why birth is such a humbling experience. The new mom weeps in awe at the little miracle in her arms. She knows it came out of her but not from her, through her but not of her." -Steven Pressfield
"The amateur believes he must first overcome his fear; then he can do his work. The professional knows that fear can never be overcome." -Steven Pressfield
"Always attack. Even in defense, attack. The attacking arm possesses theinitiative and thus commands the action. To attack makes men brave; to defendmakes them timorous." -Steven Pressfield
"The more resistance you experience, the more important your unmanifested art/project/enterprise is to you - and the more gratification you will fell when you finally do it." -Steven Pressfield
"For what can be more noble than to slay oneself? Not literally. Not with a blade in the guts. But to extinguish the selfish self within, that part which looks only to its own preservation, to save its own skin. That, I saw, was the victory you Spartans had gained over yourselves. That was the glue. It was what you had learned and it made me stay, to learn it too." -Steven Pressfield
"Resistance is directly proportional to love. If you're feeling massive Resistance, the good news is that it means there's tremendous love there too." -Steven Pressfield
"At least twice a week, I pause in the rush of work and have a meeting with myself. (If I were part of a team, I’d call a team meeting.) I ask myself, again, of the project: "What is this damn thing about?" Keep refining your understanding of the theme; keep narrowing it down." -Steven Pressfield
"It's not the writing part that's hard. What's hard is sitting down to write.What keeps us from sitting down is Resistance." -Steven Pressfield
"As all born teachers, he was primarily a student." -Steven Pressfield
"He who whets his steel, whets his courage" -Steven Pressfield
"Persian envoy 'our arrows will black out the sun...' Dienekes of the Spartans..'Good, then we'll fight in the shade." -Steven Pressfield
"The amateur dreads becoming who she really is because she fears that this new person will be judged by others as 'different.' The tribe will declare us 'weird' or 'queer' or 'crazy.' The tribe will reject us. Here's the truth: the tribe doesn't give a shit. There is no tribe. That gang or posse that we imagine is sustaining us by the bonds we share is in fact a conglomeration of individuals who are just as fucked up as we are and just as terrified. Each individual is so caught up in his own bullshit that he doesn't have two seconds to worry about yours or mine, or to reject or diminish us because of it. When we truly understand that the tribe doesn't give a damn, we're free. There is no tribe, and there never was. Our lives are entirely up to us." -Steven Pressfield
"Resistance is not a peripheral opponent. Resistance arises from within. It is self-generated and self-perpetuated. resistance is the enemy within." -Steven Pressfield
"Whatever you can do, or dream you can, begin it. Boldness has genius, magic, and power in it. Begin it now.' — W. H. Murray," -Steven Pressfield
"This, I realized now watching Dienekes rally and tend to his men, was the role of the officer: to prevent those under this command, at all stages of battle--before, during and after--from becoming 'possessed.' To fire their valor when it flagged and rein in their fury when it threatened to take them out of hand. That was Dienekes' job. That was why he wore the transverse-crested helmet of an officer. His was not, I could see now, the heroism of an Achilles. He was not a superman who waded invulnerably into the slaughter, single-handedly slaying the foe by myriads. He was just a man doing a job. A job whose primary attribute was self-restraint and self-composure, not for his own sake, but for those whom he led by his example." -Steven Pressfield
"You know, Hitler wanted to be an artist. At eighteen he took his inheritance, seven hundred kronen, and moved to Vienna to live and study... Ever see one of his paintings? Neither have I. Resistance beat him. Call it overstatement but I'll say it anyway: it was easier for Hitler to start World War II than it was for him to face a blank square of canvas." ,Steven Pressfield
"The paradox seems to be, as Socrates demonstrated long ago, that the truly free individual is free only to the extent of his own self-mastery. While those who will not govern themselves are condemned to find masters to govern over them." -Steven Pressfield
"To feel ambition and to act upon it is to embrace the unique calling of our souls. Not to act upon that ambition is to turn our backs on ourselves and on the reason for our existence." -Steven Pressfield
"Stay stupid. Follow your unconventional, crazy heart." -Steven Pressfield
"The best and only thing that one artist can do for another is to serve as an example and an inspiration." -Steven Pressfield
"Here's another test. Of any activity you do, aks yourself: If I were the last person on earth, would I still do it?" -Steven Pressfield
"What finally convinced me to go ahead was simply that I was so unhappy not going ahead. I was developing symptoms. As soon as I sat down and began, I was okay." -Steven Pressfield
"...she (the artist, the writer) doesn't wait for inspiration, she acts in the anticipation of its apparition." -Steven Pressfield
"I'm keenly aware of the Principle of Priority, which states (a) you must know the difference between what is urgent and what is important, and (b) you must do what's important first." -Steven Pressfield
"Resistance cannot be seen, touched, heard, or smelled. But it can be felt." -Steven Pressfield
"Habit will be your champion. When you train the mind to think one way and one way only, when you refuse to allow it to think in another, that will produce great strength in battle." -Steven Pressfield
"In other words, any act that rejects immediate gratification in favor of long-term grown, health, or integrity. Or, expressed another way, any act that derives from our high nature instead of our lower. Any of these will elicit Resistance." -Steven Pressfield
"Resistance will tell you anything to keep you from doing your work." -Steven Pressfield
"Like a magnetized needle floating on a surface of oil, Resistance will unfailingly point to true North - meaning that calling or action it most wants to stop us from doing.We can use this. We can use it as a compass. We can navigate by Resistance, letting it guide us to that calling or action that we must follow before all others." -Steven Pressfield
"You are the commanders, your men will look to you and act as you do. Let no officer keep to himself or his brother officers, but circulate daylong among his men. Let them see you and see you unafraid. Where there is work to do, turn your hand to it first; the men will follow. Some of you, I see, have erected tents. Strike them at once. We will all sleep as I do, in the open. Keep your men busy. If there is no work, make it up, for when soldiers have time to talk, their talk turns to fear. Action, on the other hand, produces the appetite for more action." -Steven Pressfield
"The counterfeit innovator is wildly self-confident. The real one is scared to death." -Steven Pressfield
"To yield to Resistance deforms our spirit. It stunts us and makes us less than we are and were born to be." -Steven Pressfield
"Socrates demonstrated long ago, that the truly free individual is free only to the extent of his own self-mastery. While those who will not govern themselves are condemned to find masters to govern over them." -Steven Pressfield
"We feed it [Resistance] with power by our fear of it. Master that fear and we conquer Resistance." -Steven Pressfield
"When we're living as amateurs, we're running away from our calling — meaning our work, our destiny, the obligation to become our truest and highest selves. Addiction becomes a surrogate for our calling. We enact the addiction instead of embracing the calling. Why? Because to follow a calling requires work. It's hard. It hurts. It demands entering the pain-zone of effort, risk, and exposure." -Steven Pressfield
"The professional cannot take rejection personally because to do so reinforces Resistance. Editors are not the enemy; critics are not the enemy. Resistance is the enemy. The battle is inside our own heads. We cannot let external criticism, even if it's true, fortify our internal foe. That foe is strong enough already." -Steven Pressfield
"Turning pro is like kicking a drug habit or stopping drinking. It's a decision, a decision to which we must re-commit every day." -Steven Pressfield
"Resistance is the most toxic force on the planet." -Steven Pressfield
"Never forget, Alexandros, that this flesh, this body, does not belong to us. Thank God it doesn’t. If I thought this stuff was mine, I could not advance a pace into the face of the enemy. But it is not ours, my friend. It belongs to the gods and to our children, our fathers and mothers and those of Lakedaemon a hundred, a thousand years yet unborn. It belongs to the city which gives us all we have and demands no less in requital." -Steven Pressfield
"No matter how great a writer, artist, or entrepreneur, he is a mortal, he is fallible. He is not proof against Resistance. He will drop the ball; he will crash. That’s why they call it rewriting." -Steven Pressfield
"The working artist will not tolerate trouble in her life because she knows trouble prevents her from doing her work." -Steven Pressfield
"Start before you’re ready." ,Steven Pressfield
"Nothing is as empowering as real-world validation, even if it's for failure." -Steven Pressfield
"Don’t think. Act. We can always revise and revisit once we’ve acted. But we can accomplish nothing until we act." -Steven Pressfield
"Individuals who are realized in their own lives almost never criticize others. If they speak at all, it is to offer encouragement. Watch yourself. Of all the manifestations of Resistance, most only harm ourselves. Criticism and cruelty harm others as well." -Steven Pressfield
"How many pages have I produced? I don't care. Are they any good? I don't even think about it. All that matters is I've put in my time and hit it with all I've got. All that counts is that, for this day, for this session, I have overcome Resistance." -Steven Pressfield
"Fear conquers fear. This is how we Spartans do it, counterpoising to fear of death a greater fear: that of dishonor. Of exclusion from the pack." -Steven Pressfield
"Resistance obstructs movement only from a lower sphere to a higher. It kicks in when we seek to pursue a calling in the arts, launch an innovative enterprise, or evolve to a high station morally, ethically, or spiritually." -Steven Pressfield
"In their minds it is the mark of an ill-prepared and amateur army to rely in the moments before battle on what they call pseudoandreia, false courage, meaning the artificially inflated martial frenzy produced by a general's eleventh-hour harangue or some peak of bronze-banging bravado built to by shouting, shield-pounding and the like[...] It made no difference. None was a match for the warriors of Lakedaemon, and all knew it." -Steven Pressfield
"Stay Stupid The three dumbest guys I can think of: Charles Lindbergh, Steve Jobs, Winston Churchill. Why? Because any smart person who understood how impossibly arduous were the tasks they had set themselves would have pulled the plug before he even began. Ignorance and arrogance are the artist and entrepreneur’s indispensable allies. She must be clueless enough to have no idea how difficult her enterprise is going to be—and cocky enough to believe she can pull it off anyway. How do we achieve this state of mind? By staying stupid. By not allowing ourselves to think. A child has no trouble believing the unbelievable, nor does the genius or the madman. It’s only you and I, with our big brains and our tiny hearts, who doubt and overthink and hesitate. Don’t think. Act." -Steven Pressfield
"The professional arms himself with patience, not only to give the stars time to align in his career, but to keep himself from flaming out in each individual work." -Steven Pressfield
"When a warrior fights not for himself, but for his brothers, when his most passionately sought goal is neither glory nor his own life’s preservation, but to spend his substance for them, his comrades, not to abandon them, not to prove unworthy of them, then his heart truly has achieved contempt for death, and with that he transcends himself and his actions touch the sublime." -Steven Pressfield
"We're wrong if we think we're the only ones struggling with Resistance. Everyone who has a body experiences Resistance." -Steven Pressfield
"Resistance gets us to plunge into a project with an overambitious and unrealistic timetable for its completion." -Steven Pressfield
"The hardest thing in the world is to be ourselves. Who are we? Our family tells us, society tells us, laws and customs tell us. But what do we say? How do we get to that place of self-knowledge and conviction where we are able to state without doubt, fear or anger, "This is who I am, this is what I believe, this is how I intend to live my life"?" -Steven Pressfield
"The enemy is Resistance." -Steven Pressfield
"The drawing is also a reminder that there’s an artist within each of us, and we must encourage that artist to do the work, to make something that matters, regardless of anything else that is going on." -Steven Pressfield
"The payoff of living in the past or the future is you never have to do your work in the present." -Steven Pressfield
"The amateur tweets. The pro works." -Steven Pressfield
"Lat at nigh have you experienced a vision of the person you might become, the work you could accomplish, the realized being you were mean to be? Are you a writer who doesn't write, a painter who doesn't pain, an entrepreneur who never starts a venture? Then you know what Resistance is." -Steven Pressfield
"Resistance cannot be seen, touched, heard, or smelled. But it can be felt. We experience it as an energy field radiating from a work-in-potential. It’s a repelling force. It’s negative. Its aim is to shove us away, distract us, prevent us from doing our work." -Steven Pressfield
"Our deepest fear is not that we are inadequate. Our deepest fear is that we are powerful beyond measure. It is our light, not our darkness, that most frightens us. We ask ourselves, Who am I to be brilliant, gorgeous, talented, fabulous? Actually, who are you not to be? You are a child of God. Your playing small does not serve the world. There is nothing enlightened about shrinking so that other people won’t feel insecure around you. We are all meant to shine, as children do. We were born to make manifest the glory of God that is within us. It’s not just in some of us; it’s in everyone. And as we let our own light shine, we unconsciously give other people permission to do the same. As we are liberated from our own fear, our presence automatically liberates others." -Steven Pressfield
"In my younger days dodging the draft, I somehow wound up in the Marine Corps. There's a myth that Marine training turns baby-faced recruits into bloodthirsty killers. Trust me, the Marine Corps is not that efficient. What it does teach, however, is a lot more useful.The Marine Corps teaches you how to be miserable.This is invaluable for an artist.Marines love to be miserable. Marines derive a perverse satisfaction in having colder chow, crappier equipment, and higher casualty rates than any outfit of dogfaces, swab jockeys, or flyboys, all of whom they despise. Why? Because these candy-asses don't know how to be miserable.The artist committing himself to his calling has volunteered for hell, whether he knows it or not. He will be dining for the duration on a diet of isolation, rejection, self-doubt, despair, ridicule, contempt, and humiliation.The artist must be like that Marine. He has to know how to be miserable. He has to love being miserable. He has to take pride in being more miserable than any soldier or swabbie or jet jockey. Because this is war, baby. And war is hell.'Page 68" -Steven Pressfield
"In the hierarchy, the artist faces outward. Meeting someone new he asks himself, What can this person do for me? How can this person advance my standing?   In the hierarchy, the artist looks up and looks down. The one place he can’t look is that place he must: within." -Steven Pressfield
"My wish for you, Kallistos, is that you survive as many battles in the flesh as you have already fought in your imagination. Perhaps then you will acquire the humility of a man and bear yourself no longer as the demigod you presume yourself to be." -Steven Pressfield
"The artist must be like that Marine. He has to know how to be miserable. He has to love being miserable." -Steven Pressfield
"Resistance will tell you anything to keep you from doing your work. It will perjure, fabricate, falsify; seduce, bully, cajole. Resistance is protean. It will assume any form, if that’s what it takes to deceive you. It will reason with you like a lawyer or jam a nine-millimeter in your face like a stickup man. Resistance has no conscience. It will pledge anything to get a deal, then double-cross you as soon as your back is turned. If you take Resistance at its word, you deserve everything you get. Resistance is always lying and always full of shit." -Steven Pressfield
"Fame Imperishable and glory that will never die -- that is what we march for!" -Steven Pressfield
"Most of us have two lives. The life we live, and the unlived life within us." -Steven Pressfield
"Here is what you do, friends. Forget country. Forget king. Forget wife and children and freedom. Forget every concept, however noble, that you imagine you fight for here today. Act for this alone: for the man who stands at your shoulder. He is everything, and everything is contained within him. That is all I know. That is all I can tell you.--Dienekes at Thermopylae" -Steven Pressfield
"Better to be in the arena getting stomped by the bulls, than to be up in the stands or out in the parking lot." ,Steven Pressfield
"Do we have to stare death in the face to make us stand up and confront Resistance?" -Steven Pressfield
"What's the difference between a Spartan king and a mid-ranker? One man will lob this query to his mate as they prepare to bed down in the open in a cold driving rain. His friend considers mock-theatrically for a moment. .'The king sleeps in that shithole over there' he replies. 'We sleep in this shithole over here." -Steven Pressfield
"The awakening an artist must be ruthless, not only with herself but with others." -Steven Pressfield
"Warfare is theatre, I have said, and the essence of theatre is aritifce. What we show, we will not do. What we don't show, we will do." -Steven Pressfield
"If you find yourself criticizing other people, you're probably doing it out of Resistance. When we see others beginning to live their authentic selves, it drives us crazy if we have not lived out our own." -Steven Pressfield
"Let us be, then, warriors of the heart, and enlist in our inner cause the virtues we have acquired through blood and sweat in the sphere of conflict—courage, patience, selflessness, loyalty, fidelity, self-command, respect for elders, love of our comrades (and of the enemy), perseverance, cheerfulness in adversity and a sense of humor, however terse or dark." -Steven Pressfield
"Its [Resistance] aim is to shove us away, distract us from doing our work." -Steven Pressfield
"He is prepared, each day, to confront his own self-sabotage." -Steven Pressfield
"Resistance has no conscience." -Steven Pressfield
"These scars on my body," Alexander declared, "were got for you, my brothers. Every wound, as you see, is in the front. Let that man stand forth from your ranks who has bled more than I, or endured more than I for your sake. Show him to me, and I will yield to your weariness and go home." Not a man came forward. Instead, a great cheer arose from the army. The men begged their king to forgive them for their want of spirit and pleaded with him only to lead them forward." -Steven Pressfield
"You may think that you’ve lost your passion, or that you can’t identify it, or that you have so much of it, it threatens to overwhelm you. None of these is true. Fear saps passion. When we conquer our fears, we discover a boundless, bottomless, inexhaustible well of passion." -Steven Pressfield
"Cousin, the days of gods and heroes are over.''Not to me. Not to them." -Steven Pressfield
"Ambition, I have come to believe, is the most primal and sacred fundament of our being. To feel ambition and to act upon it is to embrace the unique calling of our souls. Not to act upon that ambition is to turn our backs on ourselves and on the reason for our existence." -Steven Pressfield
"When we drug ourselves to blot out our soul's call, we are being good Americans and exemplary consumers." -Steven Pressfield
"The last thing we want is to remain as we are." -Steven Pressfield
"Writers think in metaphors. Editors work in metaphors. A great reader reads in metaphors.All are continually asking, 'What does this represent? What does it stand for?'They are trying to take everything one level deeper. When they get to that level, they will try to go deeper again." -Steven Pressfield
"Many artists are addicts, and vice versa. Many are artists in one breath and addicts in another. What's the difference? The addict is the amateur; the artist is the professional." -Steven Pressfield
"Self-doubt can be an ally. This is because it serves as an indicator of aspiration. It reflects love, love of something we dream of doing, and desire, desire to do it. If you find yourself asking yourself (and your friends), 'Am I really a writer? Am I really an artist?' chances are you are. The counterfeit innovator is wildly self-confident. The real one is scared to death." -Steven Pressfield
"I was thirty years old before I had an actual thought. Everything up till then was either what Buddhists call "monkey-mind" chatter or the reflexive regurgitation of whatever my parents or teachers said, or whatever I saw on the news or read in a book, or heard somebody rap about, hanging around the street corner." -Steven Pressfield
"Don’t prepare. Begin." -Steven Pressfield
"RESISTANCE AND FEAR Are you paralyzed with fear? That's a good sign. Fear is good. Like self-doubt, fear is an indicator. Fear tells us what we have to do. Remember our rule of thumb: The more scared we are of a work or calling, the more sure we can be that we have to do it. Resistance is experienced as fear; the degree of fear equates to the strength of Resistance. Therefore the more fear we feel about a specific enterprise, the more certain we can be that that enterprise is important to us and to the growth of our soul. That's why we feel so much Resistance. If it meant nothing to us, there'd be no Resistance. Have you ever watched Inside the Actors Studio? The host, James Lipton, invariably asks his guests, 'What factors make you decide to take a particular role?' The actor always answers: 'Because I'm afraid of it.' The professional tackles the project that will make him stretch. He takes on the assignment that will bear him into uncharted waters, compel him to explore unconscious parts of himself. Is he scared? Hell, yes. He's petrified. (Conversely, the professional turns down roles that he's done before. He's not afraid of them anymore. Why waste his time?) So if you're paralyzed with fear, it's a good sign. It shows you what you have to do." -Steven Pressfield
"Sweetest of all is liberty. This we have chosen and this we pay for. We have embraced the laws of Lykurgus, and they are stern laws. They have schooled us to scorn the life of leisure, which this rich land of ours would bestow upon us if we wished, and instead to enroll ourselves in the academy of discipline and sacrifice. Guided by these laws, our fathers for twenty generations have breathed the blessed air of freedom and have paid the bill in full when it was presented. We, their sons, can do no less." -Steven Pressfield
"The part that needs healing is our personal life. Personal life has nothing to do with work. Besides, what better way of healing than to find our center of self-sovereignty? Isn't that the whole point of healing?" -Steven Pressfield
"We're never alone. As soon as we step outside the campfire glow, our Muse lights on our shoulder like a butterfly. The act of courage calls for infallibly that deeper part of ourselves that supports and sustains us." -Steven Pressfield
"The amateur allows his worth and identity to be defined by others. The amateur craves third-party validation. The amateur is tyrannized by his imagined conception of what is expected of him. He is imprisoned by what he believes he ought to think, how he ought to look, what he ought to do, and who he ought to be." -Steven Pressfield
"I was keenly conscious of the comrades-in-arms who had fallen with me. A bond surpassing by a hundredfold that which I had known in life bound me to them. I felt a sense of inexpressible relief and realized that I had feared, more than death, separation from them. I apprehended that excruciating war survivor's torment, the sense of isolation and self-betrayal experienced by those who had elected to cling yet to breath when their comrades had let loose their grip." ,Steven Pressfield
"The hardship of the exercises is intended less to strengthen the back than to toughen the mind." -Steven Pressfield
"A thousand years from now' Leonidas declared, 'two thousand, three thousand years hence, men a hundred generations yet unborn may, for their private purposes, make journey to our country. They will come, scholars perhaps, or travelers from beyond the sea, prompted by curiosity regarding the past, or appetite for knowledge of the ancients. They will peer out across our plain and probe among the stone and rubble of our nation. What will they learn about us? Their shovels will unearth neither brilliant palaces nor temples. Their picks will prize forth no everlasting architecture or art. What will remain of the Spartans? Not monuments of marble or bronze, but this......what we do here, today.' Out beyond the narrows, the enemy trumpets sounded." -Steven Pressfield
"Resistance outwits the amateur with the oldest trick in the book: It uses his own enthusiasm against him. Resistance gets us to plunge into a project with an overambitious and unrealistic timetable for its completion. It knows we can’t sustain that level of intensity. We will hit the wall. We will crash.The professional, on the other hand, understands delayed gratification. He is the ant, not the grasshopper; the tortoise, not the hare... The professional arms himself with patience, not only to give the stars time to align in his career, but to keep himself from flaming out in each individual work. He knows that any job, whether it's a novel or kitchen remodel, takes twice as long as he thinks and costs twice as much. He accepts that. He recognizes it as reality." -Steven Pressfield
"A warrior culture trains for adversity. Luxury and ease are the goals advertised to the civilian world." -Steven Pressfield
"What happens when we turn pro is, we finally listen to that still, small voice inside our heads. At last we find the courage to identify the secret dream or love or bliss that we have known all along was our passion, our calling, our destiny." -Steven Pressfield
"THE HUMAN CONDITION The Daily Show reported recently that scientists in Japan had invented a robot that is capable of recognizing its own reflection in a mirror. 'When the robot learns to hate what it sees,' said Jon Stewart, 'it will have achieved full humanity." -Steven Pressfield
"Good. Then we will fight in the shade" -Steven Pressfield
"What does Resistance feel like?   First, unhappiness. We feel like hell. A low-grade misery pervades everything. We’re bored, we’re restless. We can’t get no satisfaction. There’s guilt but we can’t put our finger on the source. We want to go back to bed; we want to get up and party. We feel unloved and unlovable. We’re disgusted. We hate our lives. We hate ourselves." -Steven Pressfield
"There's a secret that real writers know that wannabe writers don't, and the secret is this: It's not the writing part that's hard. What's hard is sitting down to write. What keeps us from sitting down is Resistance." -Steven Pressfield
"Nobody knew I was done. Nobody cared. But I knew. I felt like a dragon I'd been fighting all my life had just dropped dead at my feet and gasped out its last sulfuric breath.Rest in peace, motherfucker." -Steven Pressfield
"Rule of thumb: The more important a call or action is to our soul’s evolution, the more Resistance we will feel" -Steven Pressfield
"The working artist will not tolerate trouble in her life because she knows trouble prevents her from doing her work. The working artist banishes from her world all sources of trouble. She harnesses the urge for trouble and transforms it in her work." -Steven Pressfield
"habits and qualities that the professional possesses that the amateur doesn't: 1. The professional shows up every day 2. The professional stays on the job all day 3. The professional is committed over the long haul 4. For the professional, the stakes are high and real Further: 5. The professional is patient 6. The professional seeks order 7. The professional demystifies 8. The professional acts in the face of fear 9. The professional accepts no excuses 10. The professional plays it as it lays 11. The professional is prepared 12. The professional does not show off 13. The professional dedicates himself to mastering technique 14. The professional does not hesitate to ask for help 15. The professional does not take failure or success personally 16. The professional does not identify with his or her instrument 17. The professional endures adversity 18. The professional self-validates 19. The professional reinvents herself 20. The professional is recognized by other professionals" -Steven Pressfield
"We do not overidentify with our jobs. We may take pride in our work, we may stay late and come in on weekends, but we recognize that we are not our job descriptions. The amateur, on the other hand, overidentifies with his avocation, his artistic aspiration. He defines himself by it. He is a musician, a painter, a playwright. Resistance loves this. Resistance knows that the amateur composer will never write his symphony because he is overly invested in its success and overterrified of its failure. The amateur takes it so seriously it paralyzes him." -Steven Pressfield
"Because when we sit down day after day and keep grinding, something mysterious starts to happen. A process is set into motion by which, inevitably and infallibly, heaven comes to our aid. Unseen forces enlist in our cause; serendipity reinforces our purpose." -Steven Pressfield
"That was when I realized I had become a pro. I had not yet had a success. But I had had a real failure." -Steven Pressfield
"Attention Deficit Disorder, Seasonal Affect Disorder, Social Anxiety Disorder. These aren't diseases, they're marketing ploys. Doctors didn't discover them, copywriters did. Marketing departments did. Drug companies did." -Steven Pressfield
"A victim act is a form of passive aggression. It seeks to achieve gratification not by honest work or a contribution made out of one's experience or insight or love, but by the manipulation of others through silent (and not-so-silent) threat. The victim compels others to come to his rescue or to behave as he wishes by holding them hostage to the prospect of his own further illness/meltdown/mental dissolution, or simply by threatening to make their lives so miserable that they do what he wants." -Steven Pressfield
"By Blake's model, as I understand it, it's as though the Fifth Symphony existed already in that higher sphere, before Beethoven sat down and played dah-dah-dah-DUM. The catch was this: The work existed only as potential — without a body, so to speak. It wasn't music yet. You couldn't play it. You couldn't hear it. It needed someone. It needed a corporeal being, a human, an artist (or more precisely a genius, in the Latin sense of 'soul' or 'animating spirit') to bring it into being on this material plane. So the Muse whispered in Beethoven's ear. Maybe she hummed a few bars into a million other ears. But no one else heard her. Only Beethoven got it. He brought it forth. He made the Fifth Symphony a 'creation of time,' which 'eternity' could be 'in love with." -Steven Pressfield
"When deliberating, think in campaigns and not battles; in wars and notcampaigns; in ultimate conquest and not wars." -Steven Pressfield
"Because a warrior carries helmet and breastplate for his own protection, but his shield for the safety of the whole line." -Steven Pressfield
"The most pernicious aspect of procrastination is that it can become a habit. We don't just put off our lives today; we put them off till our deathbed." -Steven Pressfield
"The problem with friends and family is that they know us as we are. They are invested in maintaining us as we are. The last thing we want is to remain as we are." -Steven Pressfield
"The professional loves her work. She is invested in it wholeheartedly. But she does not forget that the work is not her. Her artistic self contains many works and many performances. Already the next is percolating inside her. The next will be better, and the one after that better still." -Steven Pressfield
"The will to victory may be demonstrated in places other than actual battle." -Steven Pressfield
"The Problem Is the Problem A professional does not take success or failure personally. That’s Priority Number One for us now. That our project has crashed is not a reflection of our worth as human beings. It’s just a mistake. It’s a problem—and a problem can be solved." -Steven Pressfield
"Subject is deeper than topic. It's not 'what it's about,' it's what it's really about." -Steven Pressfield
"A writer is a writer when he says he is." ,Steven Pressfield
"The hardest thing in the world is to be ourselves." -Steven Pressfield
"When a man seats before his eyes the bronze face of his helmet and steps off from the line of departure, he divides himself, as he divides his ‘ticket,’ in two parts. One part he leaves behind. That part which takes delight in his children, which lifts his voice in the chorus, which clasps his wife to him in the sweet darkness of their bed. "That half of him, the best part, a man sets aside and leaves behind. He banishes from his heart all feelings of tenderness and mercy, all compassion and kindness, all thought or concept of the enemy as a man, a human being like himself. He marches into battle bearing only the second portion of himself, the baser measure, that half which knows slaughter and butchery and turns the blind eye to quarter. He could not fight at all if he did not do this." The men listened, silent and solemn. Leonidas at that time was fifty-five years old. He had fought in more than two score battles, since he was twenty; wounds as ancient as thirty years stood forth, lurid upon his shoulders and calves, on his neck and across his steel-colored beard. "Then this man returns, alive, out of the slaughter. He hears his name called and comes forward to take his ticket. He reclaims that part of himself which he had earlier set aside. "This is a holy moment. A sacramental moment. A moment in which a man feels the gods as close as his own breath. "What unknowable mercy has spared us this day? What clemency of the divine has turned the enemy’s spear one handbreadth from our throat and driven it fatally into the breast of the beloved comrade at our side? Why are we still here above the earth, we who are no better, no braver, who reverenced heaven no more than these our brothers whom the gods have dispatched to hell? "When a man joins the two pieces of his ticket and sees them weld in union together, he feels that part of him, the part that knows love and mercy and compassion, come flooding back over him. This is what unstrings his knees. "What else can a man feel at that moment than the most grave and profound thanksgiving to the gods who, for reasons unknowable, have spared his life this day? Tomorrow their whim may alter. Next week, next year. But this day the sun still shines upon him, he feels its warmth upon his shoulders, he beholds about him the faces of his comrades whom he loves and he rejoices in their deliverance and his own." Leonidas paused now, in the center of the space left open for him by the troops. "I have ordered pursuit of the foe ceased. I have commanded an end to the slaughter of these whom today we called our enemies. Let them return to their homes. Let them embrace their wives and children. Let them, like us, weep tears of salvation and burn thank-offerings to the gods. "Let no one of us forget or misapprehend the reason we fought other Greeks here today. Not to conquer or enslave them, our brothers, but to make them allies against a greater enemy. By persuasion, we hoped. By coercion, in the event. But no matter, they are our allies now and we will treat them as such from this moment. "The Persian!" -Steven Pressfield
"The artist committing himself to his calling has volunteered for hell whether he knows it or not." -Steven Pressfield
"The marine corps teaches you how to be miserable. This is invaluable for an artist. Marines love to be miserable. Marines derive a perverse satisfaction in having colder chow, crappier equipment, and higher casualty rates than any outfit of dogfaces, swabjockies, or flyboys, all of whom they despise. Why? Because those candyasses don't know how to be miserable. The artist committing himself to his calling has to be miserable. The artist committing himself to his calling has volunteered for hell, whether he knows it or not, he will be dining for the duration on a diet of isolation, rejection, self-doubt, despair, ridicule, contempt, and humiliation. The artist must be like that marine: he has to know how to be miserable. He has to love being miserable. He has to take pride in being more miserable than any soldier, or swabbie, or desk jockey, because this is war, baby, and war is hell." -Steven Pressfield
"Bagger Vance: Don't make no sense is all... Man say he don't play no golf when he out here this shade of night hittin balls off in the dark where he can't even see 'em... Rannulph Junuh: Yep... Well, I've done things that have made less sense... Bagger Vance: As we all have... " -Steven Pressfield
"Rationalization is Resistance's right-hand man. Its job is to keep us from feeling the shame we would feel if we truly faced what cowards we are for not doing our work." -Steven Pressfield
"The professional does not wait for inspiration; he acts in anticipation of it. He" -Steven Pressfield
"The professional gives an ear to criticism, seeking to learn and grow. But she never forgets that Resistance is using criticism against her on a far more diabolical level. Resistance enlists criticism to reinforce the fifth column of fear already at work inside the artist's head, seeking to break her will and crack her dedication. The professional does not fall for this. Her resolution, before all others, remains: No matter what, I will never let Resistance beat me." -Steven Pressfield
"What are we trying to heal, anyway? The athlete knows the day will never come when he wakes up pain-free. He has to play hurt. Remember, the part of us that we imagine needs healing is not the part we create from; that part is far deeper and stronger. The part we create from can't be touched by anything our parents did, or society did. That part is unsullied, uncorrupted; soundproof, waterproof, and bulletproof. In fact, the more troubles we've got, the better and richer that part becomes." -Steven Pressfield
"As artists and professionals it is our obligation to enact our own internal revolution, a private insurrection inside our own skulls. In this uprising we free ourselves from the tyranny of consumer culture." -Steven Pressfield
"...fear doesn't go away." -Steven Pressfield
"Resistance's goal is not to would or disable. Resistance aims to kill." -Steven Pressfield
"What we get when we turn pro is, we find our power. We find our will and our voice and we find our self-respect. We become who we always were but had, until then, been afraid to embrace and to live out." -Steven Pressfield
"The professional respects his craft. He does not consider himself superior to it. He recognizes the contributions of those who have gone before him. He apprentices himself to them. The professional dedicates himself to mastering technique not because he believes technique is a substitute for inspiration but because he wants to be in possession of the full arsenal of skills when inspiration does come. The professional is sly. He knows that by toiling beside the front door of technique, he leaves room for genius to enter by the back." -Steven Pressfield
"Our greatest fear is fear of success. When we are succeeding—that is, when we have begun to overcome our self-doubt and self-sabotage, when we are advancing in our craft and evolving to a higher level—that’s when panic strikes." -Steven Pressfield
"Remember our rule of thumb: The more scared we are of a work or calling, the more sure we can be that we have to do it." -Steven Pressfield
"I will gladly shell out $24.95 or $9.99 or 99 cents on iTunes to read or see or listen to the 24-karat treasure that you have refined from your pain and your vision and your imagination. I need it. We all do. We're struggling here in the trenches. That beauty, that wisdom, those thrills and chills, even that mindless escape on a rainy October afternoon — I want it. Put me down for it." -Steven Pressfield
"Discipline yourself to boil down your story/new business/philanthropic enterprise to a single page." -Steven Pressfield
"Casting yourself as a victim is the antithesis of doing your work. Don't do it. If you're doing it, stop." -Steven Pressfield
"Have you seen interviews with the young John Lennon or Bob Dylan, when the reporter tries to ask about their personal selves? The boys deflect these queries with withering sarcasm. Why? Because Lennon and Dylan know that the part of them that writes the songs is not 'them,' not the personal self that is of such surpassing fascination to their boneheaded interrogators. Lennon and Dylan also know that the part of themselves that does the writing is too sacred, too precious, too fragile to be redacted into sound bites for the titillation of would-be idolators (who are themselves caught up in their own Resistance)." -Steven Pressfield
"The critic hates most that which he would have done himself if he had had the guts." -Steven Pressfield
"The Bhagavad-Gita tells us we have a right only to our labor, not to the fruits of our labor. All the warrior can give is his life; all the athlete can do is leave everything on the field." -Steven Pressfield
"I have learned a deep respect for one of Goethe's couplets: 'Whatever you can do, or dream you can, begin it. Boldness has genius, magic, and power in it. Begin it now.' —" -Steven Pressfield
"The professional tackles the project that will make him stretch. He takes on the assignment that will bear him into uncharted waters, compel him to explore unconscious parts of himself." -Steven Pressfield
"His was not, I could see now, the heroism of an Achilles. He was not a superman who waded invulnerably into the slaughter, single-handedly slaying the foe by myriads. He was just a man doing a job. A job whose primary attribute was self-restraint and self-composure, not for his own sake, but for those whom he led by his example." -Steven Pressfield
"Once we commit to action, the worst thing we can do is to stop." -Steven Pressfield
"A cavalryman's horse should be smarter than he is. But the horse must never be allowed to know this." -Steven Pressfield
"Someone once asked Somerset Maugham if he wrote on a schedule or only when struck by inspiration. "I write only when inspiration strikes," he replied. "Fortunately it strikes every morning at nine o’clock sharp.'That's a pro." -Steven Pressfield
"Assistance is the universal, immutable force of creative manifestation, whose role since the Big Bang has been to translate potential into being, to convert dreams into reality." -Steven Pressfield
"It is a commonplace among artists and children at play that they're not aware of time or solitude while they're chasing their vision. The hours fly. The sculptress and the tree- climbing tyke both look up blinking when Mom calls, 'Suppertime!" -Steven Pressfield
"Alexander operated by the same principle. Let us conduct ourselves so that all men wish to be our friends and all fear to be our enemies." -Steven Pressfield
"instill courage not by his words alone but by the calm and professional manner with which he spoke them. War is work, not mystery." -Steven Pressfield
"The most pernicious aspect of procrastination is that it can become a habit. We don't just put off our lives today; we put them off till our deathbed. Never forget: This very moment, we can change our lives. There never was a moment, and never will be, when we are without the power to alter our destiny. This second, we can turn the tables on Resistance. This second, we can sit down and do our work." -Steven Pressfield
"The fundamentalist (or, more accurately, the beleaguered individual who comes to embrace fundamentalism) cannot stand freedom. He cannot find his way into the future, so he retreats to the past. He returns in imagination to the glory days of his race and seeks to reconstitute both them and himself in their purer, more virtuous light. He gets back to basics. To fundamentals. Fundamentalism and art are mutually exclusive. There is no such thing as fundamentalist art. This does not mean that the fundamentalist is not creative. Rather, his creativity is inverted. He creates destruction. Even the structures he builds, his schools and networks of organization, are dedicated to annihilation, of his enemies and of himself. But the fundamentalist reserves his greatest creativity for the fashioning of Satan, the image of his foe, in opposition to which he defines and gives meaning to his own life. Like the artist, the fundamentalist experiences Resistance. He experiences it as temptation to sin. Resistance to the fundamentalist is the call of the Evil One, seeking to seduce him from his virtue. The fundamentalist is consumed with Satan, whom he loves as he loves death. Is it coincidence that the suicide bombers of the World Trade Center frequented strip clubs during their training, or that they conceived of their reward as a squadron of virgin brides and the license to ravish them in the fleshpots of heaven? The fundamentalist hates and fears women because he sees them as vessels of Satan, temptresses like Delilah who seduced Samson from his power. To combat the call of sin, i.e., Resistance, the fundamentalist plunges either into action or into the study of sacred texts. He loses himself in these, much as the artist does in the process of creation. The difference is that while the one looks forward, hoping to create a better world, the other looks backward, seeking to return to a purer world from which he and all have fallen." -Steven Pressfield
"The moment a person learns he's got terminal cancer, a profound shift takes place in his psyche. At one stroke in the doctor's office he becomes aware of what really matters to him. Things that sixty seconds earlier had seemed all- important suddenly appear meaningless, while people and concerns that he had till then dismissed at once take on supreme importance. Maybe, he realizes, working this weekend on that big deal at the office isn't all that vital. Maybe it's more important to fly cross-country for his grandson's graduation. Maybe it isn't so crucial that he have the last word in the fight with his wife. Maybe instead he should tell her how much she means to him and how deeply he has always loved her." -Steven Pressfield
"The hero’s journey can take place on a battlefield or in a cubicle. We can live it out amid public clamor or in the soundless vault between our ears. The demons we are dueling are always the same. They are our own fears of becoming who we are. No one who has ever lived—or ever will—has a journey like ours. And yet our journey is universal. It is every woman’s and every man’s." ,Steven Pressfield
"When we conquer our fears, we discover a boundless, bottomless, inexhaustible well of passion." -Steven Pressfield
"Warrior cultures (and warrior leaders) enlist shame, not only as a counter to fear but as a goad to honor. The warrior advancing into battle (or simply resolving to keep up the fight) is more afraid of disgrace in the eyes of his brothers than he is of the spears and lances of the enemy." -Steven Pressfield
"Like our IQ, talent is a gift from our ancestors. If we're lucky, we inherit it. In the fortunate talented few, the dark dimension of their natures will first resist the labor that creativity demands, but once they commit to the task, their talented side stirs to action and rewards them with astonishing feats. These flashes of creative genius seem to arrive from out of the blue for the obvious reason: They come from the unconscious mind. In short, if the Muse exists, she does not whisper to the untalented." -Steven Pressfield
"Be brave, my heart [wrote the poet and mercenary Archilochus]. Plant your feet and square your shoulders to the enemy. Meet him among the man-killing spears. Hold your ground. In victory, do not brag; in defeat, do not weep. The ancients resisted innovation in warfare because they feared it would rob the struggle of honor. King Agis was shown a new catapult, which could shoot a killing dart 200 yards. When he saw this, he wept. "Alas," he said. "Valor is no more." -Steven Pressfield
"How many of us have become drunks and drug addicts, developed tumors and neuroses, succumbed to painkillers, gossip, and compulsive cell-phone use, simply because we don't do that thing that our hearts, our inner genius, is calling us to?" -Steven Pressfield
"Remember, the part of us that we imagine needs healing is not the part we create from; that part is far deeper and stronger. The part we create from can’t be touched by anything our parents did, or society did. That part is unsullied, uncorrupted; soundproof, waterproof, and bulletproof. In fact, the more troubles we’ve got, the better and richer that part becomes." -Steven Pressfield
"A writer writes with his genius; an artist paints with hers; everyone who creates operates from this sacramental center." -Steven Pressfield
"The Gnostics believed that exile was the essential condition of man. Do you agree? I do. The artist and the addict both wrestle with this experience of exile. They share an acute, even excruciating sensitivity to the state of separation and isolation, and both actively seek a way to overcome it, to transcend it, or at least to make the pain go away. What is the pain of being human? It's the condition of being suspended between two worlds and being unable to fully enter into either." -Steven Pressfield
"The payoff for a life of adversity is freedom." -Steven Pressfield
"Is it healthy for a society to entrust its defense to one percent of its population, while the other 99 percent thanks its lucky stars that it doesn’t have to do the dirty work?" -Steven Pressfield
"I once worked as a writer for a big New York ad agency. Our boss used to tell us: Invent a disease. Come up with the disease, he said, and we can sell the cure. Attention Deficit Disorder, Seasonal Affect Disorder, Social Anxiety Disorder. These aren't diseases, they're marketing ploys. Doctors didn't discover them, copywriters did. Marketing departments did. Drug companies did. Depression and anxiety may be real. But they can also be Resistance." -Steven Pressfield
"Listen to me, young Hardy. A day will come for you when play becomes torment. When you are drowning, not in water but on dry land. In that hour remember me. I will preserve you." -Steven Pressfield
"If tomorrow morning by some stroke of magic every dazed and benighted soul woke up with the power to take the first step toward pursuing his or her dreams, every shrink in the directory would be out of business." -Steven Pressfield
"Remember, Resistance wants us to cede sovereignty to others. It wants us to stake our self-worth, our identity, our reason-for-being, on the response of others to our work. Resistance knows we can't take this. No one can." -Steven Pressfield
"Every virtue that reaches the exaggeration, is becoming a defect" -Steven Pressfield
"Anything that draws attention to ourselves through pain-free or artificial means is a manifestation of Resistance." -Steven Pressfield
"Our job, as souls on this mortal journey, is to shift the seat of our identity from the lower realm to the upper, from the ego to the Self. Art" -Steven Pressfield
"Any support we get from persons of flesh and blood is like Monopoly money; it’s not legal tender in that sphere where we have to do our work. In fact, the more energy we spend stoking up on support from colleagues and loved ones, the weaker we become and the less capable of handling our business." -Steven Pressfield
"On our hero's journey, we see, we experience, we suffer. We learn. On our hero's journey, we acquire a history that is ours alone. It's a secret history, a private history, a personal history. No one has it but us. No one knows it but us. This secret history is the most valuable possession we hold, or ever will hold. We will draw upon it for the rest of our lives." -Steven Pressfield
"The creative act is primitive. Its principles are of birth and genesis. Babies are born in blood and chaos; stars and galaxies come into being amid the release of massive primordial cataclysms. Conception occurs at the primal level. I’m not being facetious when I stress, throughout this book, that it is better to be primitive than to be sophisticated, and better to be stupid than to be smart. The most highly cultured mother gives birth sweating and dislocated and cursing like a sailor. That’s the place we inhabit as artists and innovators. It’s the place we must become comfortable with. The hospital room may be spotless and sterile, but birth itself will always take place amid chaos, pain, and blood." -Steven Pressfield
"Dienekes says the mind is like a house with many rooms," he said. "There are rooms one must not go into. To anticipate one’s death is one of those rooms. We must not allow ourselves even to think it." -Steven Pressfield
"The professional dedicates himself to mastering technique not because he believes technique is a substitute for inspiration but because he wants to be in possession of the full arsenal of skills when inspiration does come." -Steven Pressfield
"Habit will be your champion. When you train the mind to think one way and one way only, when you refuse to allow it to think in another, that will produce great strength in battle.’ They" -Steven Pressfield
"On the field of the Self stand a knight and a dragon.   You are the knight. Resistance is the dragon." -Steven Pressfield
"The artist committing himself to his calling has volunteered for hell, whether he knows it or not. He will be dining for the duration on a diet of isolation, rejection, self-doubt, despair, ridicule, contempt, and humiliation. The artist must be like that Marine. He has to know how to be miserable. He has to love being miserable. He has to take pride in being more miserable than any soldier or swabbie or jet jockey. Because this is war, baby. And war is hell." -Steven Pressfield
"The professional cannot allow the actions of others to define his reality." -Steven Pressfield
"When we sit down each day and do our work, power concentrates around us ." -Steven Pressfield
"Never forget: This very moment, we can change our lives. There never was a moment, and never will be, when we are without the power to alter our destiny. This" -Steven Pressfield
"THE MAGIC OF MAKING A START Concerning all acts of initiative (and creation) there is one elementary truth, the ignorance of which kills countless ideas and splendid plans: that the moment one definitely commits oneself, then providence moves too. All sorts of things occur to help one that would not otherwise have occurred. A whole stream of events issues from the decision, raising in one's favour all manner of unforeseen incidents and meetings and material assistance which no man would have dreamed would come his way. I have learned a deep respect for one of Goethe's couplets: 'Whatever you can do, or dream you can, begin it. Boldness has genius, magic, and power in it. Begin it now." -Steven Pressfield
"The highest treason a crab can commit is to make a leap for the rim of the bucket." -Steven Pressfield
"when we sit down day after day and keep grinding, something mysterious starts to happen. A process is set into motion by which, inevitably and infallibly, heaven comes to our aid. Unseen forces enlist in our cause; serendipity reinforces our purpose.   This is the other secret that real artists know and wannabe writers don’t. When we sit down each day and do our work, power concentrates around us. The Muse takes note of our dedication." -Steven Pressfield
"From that day, I vowed never to squander a moment's care over the good opinion of others. May they rot in hell. You have heard of my abstemiousness in matters of food and sex. Here is why: I punished myself. If I caught my thoughts straying to another's opinion of me, I sent myself to bed without supper. As for women, I likewise permitted myself none. I missed no few meals, and no small pleasure, before I brought this vice under control." -Steven Pressfield
"Jewish despair arises from want and can be cured by surfeit. Give a penniless Jew fifty quid and he perks right up. Irish despair is different. Nothing relieves Irish despair. The Irishman’s complaint lies not with his circumstances, which might be rendered brilliant by labour or luck, but with the injustice of existence itself. Death! How could a benevolent Deity gift us with life, only to set such a cruel term upon it? Irish despair knows no remedy. Money doesn’t help. Love fades; fame is fleeting. The only cures are booze and sentiment. That’s why the Irish are such noble drunks and glorious poets. No one sings like the Irish or mourns like them. Why? Because they’re angels imprisoned in vessels of flesh." -Steven Pressfield
"If the upper realm is, as Plato suggested, the sphere of perfect love, truth, justice, and beauty, then the artist seeks to call down the magic of this world and to create, by dint of labor and luck, the closest-to-sublime simulacra of those qualities that he or she can." -Steven Pressfield
"Rule of thumb: The more important a call or action is to our soul’s evolution, the more Resistance we will feel toward pursuing it." -Steven Pressfield
"A youth loathes nothing more than his own callowness. Experience is his object. Experience, however ghastly, for the lad longs before all for the lined face and chiseled squint of the veteran. Even his submissions to terror, the very shit with which he paints his thighs under fire is trophy to him; he points it out to his comrades, laughing in the aftercourse of action as if it were a decoration for valour, for it makes him a salt, a veteran, an old hand." -Steven Pressfield
"If we were born to overthrow the order of ignorance and injustice of the world, it's our job to realize it and get down to business." -Steven Pressfield
"You’re supposed to learn that things that you think are nothing, as weightless as air, are actually powerful substantial forces, as real and as solid as earth.   I understood. The eagle was telling me that dreams, visions, meditations such as this very one–things that I had till now disdained as fantasy and illusion–were as real and as solid as anything in my waking life." -Steven Pressfield
"Sometimes on Wednesday I’ll read something that I wrote on Tuesday and I’ll think, "This is crap. I hate it and I hate myself." Then I’ll re-read the identical passage on Thursday. To my astonishment, it has become brilliant overnight. Ignore false negatives. Ignore false positives. Both are Resistance. Keep working." -Steven Pressfield
"What does Resistance feel like? First, unhappiness. We feel like hell. A low-grade misery pervades everything. We’re bored, we’re restless. We can’t get no satisfaction. There’s guilt but we can’t put our finger on the source. We want to go back to bed; we want to get up and party. We feel unloved and unlovable. We’re disgusted. We hate our lives. We hate ourselves. Unalleviated, Resistance mounts to a pitch that becomes unendurable. At this point vices kick in. Dope, adultery, web surfing." -Steven Pressfield
"A child has no trouble believing the unbelievable, nor does the genius or the madman. It’s only you and I, with our big brains and our tiny hearts, who doubt and overthink and hesitate. Don’t think. Act." -Steven Pressfield
"The Spartans do not ask how many are the enemy but where are they. —Plutarch Sayings of the Spartans" -Steven Pressfield
"Don't cheat us of your contribution. Give us what you've got." -Steven Pressfield
"When Krishna instructed Arjuna that we have a right to our labor but not to the fruits of our labor, he was counseling the warrior to act territorially, not hierarchically. We must do our work for its own sake, not for fortune or attention or applause." -Steven Pressfield
"RESISTANCE CAN BE BEATEN If Resistance couldn't be beaten, there would be no Fifth Symphony, no Romeo and Juliet, no Golden Gate Bridge. Defeating Resistance is like giving birth. It seems absolutely impossible until you remember that women have been pulling it off successfully, with support and without, for fifty million years." -Steven Pressfield
"performing the commonplace under uncommonplace conditions." -Steven Pressfield
"The sword master stepping onto the fighting floor knows he will be facing powerful opponents. Not the physical adversaries whom he will fight (though those indeed serve as stand-ins for the enemy). The real enemy is inside himself. The monk in meditation knows this. So does the yogi. So do the film editor and the video-game creator and the software writer." -Steven Pressfield
"It's one thing to study warand another to live the warrior's life.- Telamon of Arcadia, mercenary of the fifth century B.C." -Steven Pressfield
"The Spartan king Agesilaus was still fighting in armor when he was eighty-two. Picasso was painting past ninety, and Henry Miller was chasing women (I'm sure Picasso was too) at eighty-nine.Once we turn pro, we're like sharks who have tasted blood, or renunciants who have glimpsed the face of God. For us, there is no finish line. No bell ends the bout. Life is the pursuit. Life is the hunt. When our hearts burst... then we'll go out, and no sooner." -Steven Pressfield
"We can always revise and revisit once we’ve acted. But we can accomplish nothing until we act." -Steven Pressfield
"Once we turn pro, we're like sharks who have tasted blood, or renunciants who have glimpsed the face of God. For us, there is no finish line. No bell ends the bout. Life is the pursuit. Life is the hunt. When our hearts burst... then we'll go out, and no sooner." -Steven Pressfield
"No one is born with the Warrior Ethos, though many of its tenets appear naturally in young men and women of all cultures. The Warrior Ethos is taught. On the football field in Topeka, in the mountains of the Hindu Kush, on the lion-infested plains of Kenya and Tanzania. Courage is modeled for the youth by fathers and older brothers, by mentors and elders. It is inculcated, in almost all cultures, by a regimen of training and discipline. This discipline frequently culminates in an ordeal of initiation. The Spartan youth receives his shield, the paratrooper is awarded his wings, the Afghan boy is handed his AK-47." -Steven Pressfield
"Rooster was a bad slave. He had no use for anyone, not even the gods. Not that he was angry at the gods, like some I'd met. He just dismissed them entirely. There were no gods, and that was that." -Steven Pressfield
"The professional keeps his eye on the doughnut and not on the hole. He reminds himself it's better to be in the arena, getting stomped by the bull, than to be up in the stands or out in the parking lot." -Steven Pressfield
"Call it overstatement but I'll say it anyway: it was easier for Hitler to start World War II than it was for him to face a blank square of canvas." -Steven Pressfield
"We get ourselves in trouble because it's a cheap way to get attention. Trouble is a faux form of fame. It's easier to get busted in the bedroom with the faculty chairman's wife than it is to finish that dissertation on the metaphysics of motley in the novellas of Joseph Conrad." -Steven Pressfield
"In my view, the amateur does not love the game enough. If he did, he would not pursue it as a sideline, distinct from his "real" vocation." -Steven Pressfield
"In my younger days dodging the draft, I somehow wound up in the Marine Corps. There's a myth that Marine training turns baby-faced recruits into bloodthirsty killers. Trust me, the Marine Corps is not that efficient. What it does teach, however, is a lot more useful. The Marine Corps teaches you how to be miserable. This is invaluable for an artist. Marines love to be miserable. Marines derive a perverse satisfaction from having colder chow, crappier equipment, and higher casualty rates than any outfit of dogfaces, swab jockeys or flyboys, all of whom they despise. Why? Because these candy-asses don't know how to be miserable. The artist committing himself to his calling has volunteered for hell, whether he knows it or not. He will be dining for the duration on a diet of isolation, rejection, self-doubt, despair, ridicule, contempt, and humiliation. The artist must be like that Marine. He has to know how to be miserable. He has to love being miserable. He has to take pride in being more miserable than any soldier or swabbie or jet jockey. Because this is war, baby. And war is hell." -Steven Pressfield
"This is what I feared for Michael. That his generation, so strong, so well made, so bright and aware beyond its years, would compare itself to us in envy, envy of the clarity of our challenges and the brutish obviousness of our enemies." -Steven Pressfield
"Resistance is implacable, intractable, indefatigable." -Steven Pressfield
"Why does Zeus send prodigies to earth? For the same reason he makes a comet streak across the sky. To show not what has been done, but what can be." -Steven Pressfield
"Whatever you can do or dream you can, begin it. Boldness has genius, power and magic in it." Begin it now." -Steven Pressfield
"The warrior and the artist live by the same code of necessity, which dictates that the battle must be fought anew every day." -Steven Pressfield
"The writer is an infantryman. He knows that progress is measured in yards of dirt extracted from the enemy one day, one hour, one minute at a time and paid for in blood. The artist wears combat boots." -Steven Pressfield
"Stay stupid. Trust the soup. Start before you’re ready." -Steven Pressfield
"Resistance is experienced as fear; the degree of fear equates to the strength of Resistance." -Steven Pressfield
"Sjećaš li se,Dijaneče,kad smo se borili s Tebancima kod Eritreje?Kad su se slomili i pobjegli?Bio je to prvi bijeg kojem sam svjedočio.Zaprepastio me je.Postoji li primitivniji i više ponižavajući prizor pod suncem nego kad se falanga slama zbog straha?Zbog njega se čovjek srami što je smrtnik,kad ugleda tkavu neplemenitost čak i kod neprijatelja.To krši sve božje zakone.Samoubojičino lice koje se pretvorilo u grimasu prijezira sada se razvedrilo u nešto veselije.Ah,ali suprotno njemu:linija koja se drži ! Može li išta biti veličanstvenije,plemenitije?! " -Steven Pressfield
"It is that peculiar soldiers’ humor which springs from the experience of shared misery and often translates poorly to those not on the spot and enduring the same hardship." -Steven Pressfield
"From the day I finally finished something, I’ve never had trouble finishing anything again." -Steven Pressfield
"Similarly the call to growth can be conceptualized as personal (a daimon or genius, an angel or a muse) or as impersonal, like the tides or the transiting of Venus. Either way works, as long as we're comfortable with it. Or if extra-dimensionality doesn't sit well with you in any form, think of it as 'talent,' programmed into our genes by evolution. The point, for the thesis I'm seeking to put forward, is that there are forces we can call our allies. As Resistance works to keep us from becoming who we were born to be, equal and opposite powers are counterpoised against it. These are our allies and angels." -Steven Pressfield
"The artist must be like that Marine. He has to know how to be miserable. He has to love being miserable." -Steven Pressfield
"You think Resistance isn't real? Resistance will bury you." -Steven Pressfield
"problem with friends and family is that they know us as we are. They are invested in maintaining us as we are." -Steven Pressfield
"In short, if the Muse exists, she does not whisper to the untalented." -Steven Pressfield
"There’s no mystery to turning pro. It’s a decision brought about by an act of will. We make up our minds to view ourselves as pros and we do it. Simple as that." -Steven Pressfield
"Then there’s the third way proffered by the Lord of Discipline, which is beyond both hierarchy and territory. That is to do the work and give it to Him. Do it as an offering to God.   Give the act to me. Purged of hope and ego," -Steven Pressfield
"The professional knows when he has fallen short of his own standards. He will murder his darlings without hesitation, if that's what it takes to stay true to the goddess and to his own expectations of excellence." -Steven Pressfield
"Be brave, my heart [wrote the poet and mercenary Archilochus]. Plant your feet and square your shoulders to the enemy. Meet him among the man-killing spears. Hold your ground. In victory, do not brag; in defeat, do not weep." -Steven Pressfield
"Doctors estimate that seventy to eighty percent of their business is non-health-related. People aren’t sick, they’re self-dramatizing. Sometimes the hardest part of a medical job is keeping a straight face." -Steven Pressfield
"The enemy is in you, but it is not you." -Steven Pressfield
"There never was a moment, and never will be, when we are without the power to alter our destiny." -Steven Pressfield
"Resistance is directly proportional to love. If you're feeling massive Resistance, the good news is, it means there's tremendous love there too. If you didn't love the project that is terrifying you, you wouldn't feel anything. The opposite of love isn't hate; it's indifference." -Steven Pressfield
"The professional arms himself with patience, not only to give the stars time to align in his career, but to keep himself from flaming out in each individual work. He knows that any job, whether it’s a novel or a kitchen remodel, takes twice as long as he thinks and costs twice as much. He accepts that. He recognizes it as reality. The professional steels himself at the start of a project, reminding himself it is the Iditarod, not the sixty-yard dash. He conserves his energy. He prepares his mind for the long haul. He sustains himself with the knowledge that if he can just keep those huskies mushing, sooner or later the sled will pull in to Nome." -Steven Pressfield
"The artist and the fundamentalist arise from societies at differing stages of development. The artist is the advanced model. His culture possesses affluence, stability, enough excess of resource to permit the luxury of self-examination. The artist is grounded in freedom. He is not afraid of it. He is lucky. He was born in the right place. He has a core of self- confidence, of hope for the future. He believes in progress and evolution. His faith is that humankind is advancing, however haltingly and imperfectly, toward a better world." -Steven Pressfield
"The professional dedicates himself to mastering technique not because he believes technique is a substitute for inspiration but because he wants to be in possession of the full arsenal of skills when inspiration does come. The professional is sly. He knows that by toiling beside the front door of technique, he leaves room for genius to enter by the back." -Steven Pressfield
"When we're living as amateurs, we're running away from our calling — meaning our work, our destiny, the obligation to become our truest and highest selves." -Steven Pressfield
"The clash is epic and internal, between the ego and the Self, and the stakes are our lives." -Steven Pressfield
"What husband is he who abandons his wife? What wife is she taken without love? The gods demand of us action and the use of our free will! That is piety, not to buckle beneath necessity’s yoke like dumb beasts!" -Steven Pressfield
"Someone once asked Somerset Maugham if he wrote on a schedule or only when struck by inspiration. 'I write only when inspiration strikes,' he replied. 'Fortunately it strikes every morning at nine o'clock sharp." -Steven Pressfield
"It’s only you and I, with our big brains and our tiny hearts, who doubt and overthink and hesitate." -Steven Pressfield
"PROFESSIONAL DEDICATES HIMSELF TO MASTERING TECHNIQUE The professional respects his craft. He does not consider himself superior to it. He recognizes the contributions of those who have gone before him. He apprentices himself to them. The professional dedicates himself to mastering technique not because he believes technique is a substitute for inspiration but because he wants to be in possession of the full arsenal of skills when inspiration does come. The professional is sly. He knows that by toiling beside the front door of technique, he leaves room for genius to enter by the back." -Steven Pressfield
"When we raise our game aesthetically, we elevate it morally and spiritually as well." -Steven Pressfield
"The essence of professionalism is the focus upon the work and its demands, while we are doing it, to the exclusion of all else. The ancient Spartans schooled themselves to regard the enemy, any enemy, as nameless and faceless. In other words, they believed that if they did their work, no force on earth could stand against them." -Steven Pressfield
"The pain of being human is that we're all angels imprisoned in vessels of flesh." -Steven Pressfield
"The children who were able to sit for three minutes with a marshmallow on the table in front of them without eating it were rewarded with two marshmallows when the experimenter returned. But that's as crazy as inbox-watching. Krishna said we have the right to our labor, but not to the fruits of our labor. He meant that the piano is its own reward, as is the canvas, the barre, and the movieola. Fuck the marshmallows." -Steven Pressfield
"A king does not expend his substance to enslave men, but by his conduct and example makes them free." -Steven Pressfield
"I can procrastinate thinking about my procrastination problem. I can procrastinate dealing with my problem of procrastinating thinking about my procrastination problem." -Steven Pressfield
"Resistance is experienced as fear; the degree of fear equates to the strength of Resistance. Therefore the more fear we feel about a specific enterprise, the more certain we can be that that enterprise is important to us and to the growth of our soul. That's why we feel so much Resistance. If it meant nothing to us, there'd be no Resistance." -Steven Pressfield
"Instead of applying self-knowledge, self-discipline, delayed gratification and hard work, we simply consume a product." -Steven Pressfield
"Am I crazy? Do I really intend, tomorrow, to charge into the teeth of the enemy, mounted on my warhorse Bucephalus, who is recognizable on sight by every man of the foe while I myself am dressed in distinctive armor, wearing a double-plumed helmet so that every warrior on the opposing side knows it’s me? Every enemy arrow is going to be aimed at me, every javelin, every lance, every sling bullet. The greatest champions of the foe will all rush straight at me, seeking to win glory by being the one to slay me. Am I out of my mind to put myself in such a position? Surely Alexander’s comrades seconded this. "Don’t risk yourself, Sire! We need you! What will the army do if you are killed?" That was reality. Objective assessment. Who could argue with it? Yet . . . Yet there existed simultaneously—and Alexander, beyond all others, was aware of it—a second reality. In this second Reality, Alexander’s seemingly reckless charge made absolute sense. Its audacity would strike terror into the hearts of the enemy." -Steven Pressfield
"There's no mystery to turning pro. It's a decision brought about by an act of will." -Steven Pressfield
"If addictions and shadow careers are metaphors, sex is the richest one of all and the most difficult to decode. Why are we obsessed with sex? Does sex represent conquest or surrender? Are we seeking the oblivion of orgasm or the transcendence of escaping the ego? Is union with another our goal, or are we seeking to dominate or humiliate our partner? Is sex about love? Are we seeking a soul-mate, a mother/father? Are we trying to reach God? 'I don't see what all the fuss about sex is,' said the comedian. 'It's only friction.' My" -Steven Pressfield
"The rancor I once bore recedes, supplanted by admiration and a sense even of loss at the mates we might have been and the times we might have shared." -Steven Pressfield
"Some heavy shit is coming down, brothers, and we’re going to go through it." -Steven Pressfield
"Indeed, we own a bond, my friend. That most sublime of all: reminiscence for our vanished youth." -Steven Pressfield
"What could be more natural for this man than to draw to his bosom all with whom he shared that time, even his foes? Perhaps his foes more than any." -Steven Pressfield
"When inspiration touches talent, she gives birth to truth and beauty." -Steven Pressfield
"Resistance has no strength of its own. Every ounce of juice it possesses comes from us. We feed it with power by our fear of it. Master that fear and we conquer Resistance." -Steven Pressfield
"Each man recalls not the enemy he hated, but the champion who engaged him with such valor." -Steven Pressfield
"When I sit down to write in the morning, I literally have no expectations for myself or for the day’s work. My only goal is to put in three or four hours with my fingers punching the keys. I don’t judge myself on quality. I don’t hold myself accountable for quantity. The only questions I ask are, Did I show up? Did I try my best?" -Steven Pressfield
"When we sit down each day and do our work, power concentrates around us . . . we become like a magnetized rod that attracts iron filings. Ideas come. Insights accrete." -Steven Pressfield
"Our greatest fear is fear of success." -Steven Pressfield
"Men wanted for hazardous journey, small wages, bitter cold, long months of complete darkness, constant danger, safe return doubtful; honor and recognition in case of success." -Steven Pressfield
"the truly free individual is free only to the extent of his own self-mastery." -Steven Pressfield
"It was an era when history butted up against mythology," -Steven Pressfield
"Like the statue of David, our Authentic Swing already exists, concealed within the stone, so to speak." Keeler broke in with excitement. "Then our task as golfers, according to this line of thought…" "…is simply to chip away all that is inauthentic, allowing our Authentic Swing to emerge in its purity." -Steven Pressfield
"The warrior culture, on the other hand, values cohesion and obedience. The soldier or sailor is not free to do whatever he wants. He serves; he is bound to perform his duty." -Steven Pressfield
"As artists and professionals it is our obligation to enact our own internal revolution, a private insurrection inside our own skulls. In this uprising we free ourselves from the tyranny of consumer culture. We overthrow the programming of advertising, movies, video games, magazines, TV, and MTV by which we have been hypnotized from the cradle. We unplug ourselves from the grid by recognizing that we will never cure our restlessness by contributing our disposable income to the bottom line of Bullshit, Inc., but only by doing our work." -Steven Pressfield
"Are you paralyzed with fear? That’s a good sign. Fear is good. Like self-doubt, fear is an indicator. Fear tells us what we have to do. Remember our rule of thumb: The more scared we are of a work or calling, the more sure we can be that we have to do it." -Steven Pressfield
"Ignorance and arrogance are the artist and entrepreneur’s indispensable allies." -Steven Pressfield
"You’ve got the watches," say the Taliban, "but we’ve got the time." -Steven Pressfield
"Resistance knows that the amateur composer will never write his symphony because he is overly invested in its success and overterrified of its failure." -Steven Pressfield
"Rule of thumb: The more important a call or action is to our soul's evolution, the more Resistance we will feel toward pursuing it." -Steven Pressfield
"Stay primitive. Trust the soup. Swing for the seats." -Steven Pressfield
"Monopoly money; it’s not legal tender in that sphere where we have to do our work. In fact, the more energy we spend stoking up on support from colleagues and loved ones, the weaker we become and the less capable of handling our business." -Steven Pressfield
"We are all meant to shine, as children do." -Steven Pressfield
"The hero wanders. The hero suffers. The hero returns. You are that hero." -Steven Pressfield
"The amateur has not mastered the technique of his art. Nor does he expose himself to judgment in the real world. If we show our poem to our friend and our friend says, "It’s wonderful, I love it," that’s not real-world feedback, that’s our friend being nice to us. Nothing is as empowering as real-world validation, even if it’s for failure." -Steven Pressfield
"He is on a mission. He will not tolerate disorder. He eliminates chaos from his world in order to banish it from his mind. He wants the carpet vacuumed and the threshold swept, so the Muse may enter and not soil her gown." -Steven Pressfield
"You're where you wanted to be, aren't you? So you're taking a few blows. That's the price for being in the arena and not on the sidelines. Stop complaining and be grateful." -Steven Pressfield
"These are serious fears. But they're not the real fear. Not the Master Fear, the Mother of all Fears that's so close to us that even when we verbalize it we don't believe it. Fear That We Will Succeed. That we can access the powers we secretly know we possess. That we can become the person we sense in our hearts we truly are. This is the most terrifying prospect a human being can face, because it ejects him at one go (he imagines) from all the tribal inclusions his psyche is wired for and has been for fifty million years. We fear discovering that we are more than we think we are. More than our parents/children/teachers think we are. We fear that we actually possess the talent that our still, small voice tells us. That we actually have the guts, the perseverance, the capacity. We fear that we truly can steer our ship, plant our flag, reach our Promised Land. We fear this because, if it's true, then we become estranged from all we know. We pass through a membrane. We become monsters and monstrous. We know that if we embrace our ideals, we must prove worthy of them. And that scares the hell out of us. What will become of us? We will lose our friends and family, who will no longer recognize us. We will wind up alone, in the cold void of starry space, with nothing and no one to hold on to. Of course this is exactly what happens. But here's the trick. We wind up in space, but not alone. Instead we are tapped into an unquenchable, undepletable, inexhaustible source of wisdom, consciousness, companionship. Yeah, we lose friends. But we find friends too, in places we never thought to look. And they're better friends, truer friends. And we're better and truer to them. Do you believe me?" -Steven Pressfield
"It can pay off, being a hack. Given the depraved state of American culture, a slick dude can make millions being a hack. But even if you succeed, you lose, because you've sold out your Muse, and your Muse is you, the best part of yourself, where your finest and only true work comes from." -Steven Pressfield
"I have always been a soldier. I have known no other life. The calling of arms, I have followed from boyhood. I have never sought another. I have known lovers, sired offspring, competed in games, and committed outrages when drunk. I have vanquished empires, yoked continents, been crowned as an immortal before gods and men. But always I have been a soldier." -Steven Pressfield
"A real writer (or artist or entrepreneur) has something to give. She has lived enough and suffered enough and thought deeply enough about her experience to be able to process it into something that is of value to others, even if only as entertainment. A fake writer (or artist or entrepreneur) is just trying to draw attention to himself. The word "fake" may be too unkind. Let’s say "young" or "evolving." -Steven Pressfield
"The artist committing himself to his calling has volunteered for hell." -Steven Pressfield
"Henry Fonda was still throwing up before each stage performance, even when he was seventy-five. In other words, fear doesn't go away. The warrior and the artist live by the same code of necessity, which dictates that the battle must be fought anew every day." -Steven Pressfield
"Man is weak, greedy, craven, lustful, prey to every species of vice and depravity. He will lie, steal, cheat, murder, melt down the very statues of the gods and coin their gold as money for whores. This is man." -Steven Pressfield
"Do you understand? I hadn’t written anything good. It might be years before I would, if I ever did at all. That didn’t matter. What counted was that I had, after years of running from it, actually sat down and done my work." -Steven Pressfield
"Making yourself a corporation (or just thinking of yourself in that way) reinforces the idea of professionalism because it separates the artist-doing-the-work from the will-and-consciousness-running-the-show." -Steven Pressfield
"The professional has learned better. He respects Resistance. He knows if he caves in today, no matter how plausible the pretext, he’ll be twice as likely to cave in tomorrow." -Steven Pressfield
"Reći ću Njegovom Veličanstvu što je kralj.Kralj ne boravi u svome šatoru dok njegovi ljudi krvare i ginu na ratištu.Kralj ne objeduje dok njegovi ljudi gladuju niti spava dok drže stražu na zidu.Kralj ne zapovijeda vjernošću svojih ljudi preko straha niti je kupuje zlatom;zaradjuje njihovu ljubav znojem svojih ledja i patnjom koje podnosi za njihovo dobro.Ono što predstavlja najteži teret ,kralj prvi podiže i poslednji odlaže.Kralj ne zahtijeva da mu suže oni koje vodi,već on to čini njima.On služi njih,ne oni njega." -Steven Pressfield
"Here's another test. Of any activity you do, ask yourself: If I were the last person on earth, would I still do it? If" -Steven Pressfield
"It's one thing to lie to ourselves. It's another thing to believe it." -Steven Pressfield
"And they knew that when battle came, he would take his place not safely in the rear, but in the front rank, at the hottest and most perilous spot on the field." -Steven Pressfield
"The amateur plays for fun. The professional plays for keeps." -Steven Pressfield
"The amateur plays for fun. The professional plays for keeps. To the amateur, the game is his avocation. To the pro it's his vocation." -Steven Pressfield
"All that matters is I've put in my time and hit it with all I've got. All that counts is that, for this day, for this session, I have overcome Resistance." -Steven Pressfield
"Do we have to stare death in the face to make us stand up and confront Resistance? Does Resistance have to cripple and disfigure our lives before we wake up to its existence? How many of us have become drunks and drug addicts, developed tumors and neuroses, succumbed to painkillers, gossip, and compulsive cell-phone use, simply because we don't do that" -Steven Pressfield
"The acquisition of a condition lends significance to one's existence. An illness, a cross to bear. Some people go from condition to condition; they cure one, and another pops up to take its place. The condition becomes a work of art in itself, a shadow version of the real creative act the victim is avoiding by expending so much care cultivating his condition." -Steven Pressfield
"Ignorance and arrogance are the artist and entrepreneur’s indispensable allies. She must be clueless enough to have no idea how difficult her enterprise is going to be—and cocky enough to believe she can pull it off anyway." -Steven Pressfield
"The danger is greatest when the finish line is in sight. At this point, Resistance knows we're about to beat it. It hits the panic button. It marshals one last assault and slams us with everything it's got." -Steven Pressfield
"The pro keeps coming on. He beats Resistance at its own game by being even more resolute and even more implacable than it is." -Steven Pressfield
"There’s a secret that real writers know that wannabe writers don’t, and the secret is this: It’s not the writing part that’s hard. What’s hard is sitting down to write.   What keeps us from sitting down is Resistance." -Steven Pressfield
"The next few chapters are going to be about those invisible psychic forces that support and sustain us in our journey toward ourselves. I plan on using terms like muses and angels. Does that make you uncomfortable? If it does, you have my permission to think of angels in the abstract. Consider these forces as being impersonal as gravity. Maybe they are. It's not hard to believe, is it, that a force exists in every grain and seed to make it grow? Or that in every kitten or colt is an instinct that impels it to run and play and learn. Just as Resistance can be thought of as" -Steven Pressfield
"Are you paralyzed with fear? That's a good sign." -Steven Pressfield
"What factors make you decide to take a particular role?' The actor always answers: 'Because I'm afraid of it." -Steven Pressfield
"All genuine epiphanies seem to follow this model: their defining quality is the relinquishment of delusion. The initial fear is that one has lost something. A cherished self-conception must be given up, and one feels diminished by it. This is mistaken, however. A person discovers that he has been made stronger by the jettisoning of this sham and disadvantageous baggage. In fact, he has become more "himself," by aligning his self-concept more closely with fact." -Steven Pressfield
"Do you understand? I hadn't written anything good. It might be years before I would, if I ever did at all. That didn't matter. What counted was that I had, after years of running from it, actually sat down and done my work." -Steven Pressfield
"Phobologic discipline is comprised of twenty-eight exercises, each focusing upon a separate nexus of the nervous system. The five primaries are the knees and hams, lungs and heart, loins and bowels, the lower back, and the girdle of the shoulders, particularly the trapezius muscles, which yoke the shoulder to the neck.	A secondary nexus, for which the Lakedaemonians have twelve more exercises, is the face, specifically the muscles of the jaw, the neck and the four ocular constrictors around the eye sockets. These nexuses are termed by the Spartans phobosynakteres, fear accumulators.	Fear spawns in the body, phonologic science teaches, and must be combated there. For once the flesh is seized, a phobokyklos, or loop of fear, may commence, feeding upon itself, mounting into a "runaway" of terror. Put the body into a state of phobia, fearlessness, the Spartans believe, and the mind will follow." -Steven Pressfield
"Rule of thumb: The more important a call or action is to our soul's evolution, the more Resistance we will feel toward pursuing it." -Steven Pressfield
"The hill is a sonofabitch but what can you do? Set one foot in front of another and keep climbing." -Steven Pressfield
"In other words, any act that rejects immediate gratification in favor of long-term growth, health, or integrity. Or, expressed another way, any act that derives from our higher nature instead of our lower. Any of these will elicit Resistance." -Steven Pressfield
"The American people... have had enough of sacrificing their sons and daughters in the name of some illusory world order; they want someone else’s sons and daughters to bear the burden. The American people are willing to pay for this privilege, in cash and in the circumscription of their own liberty." -Steven Pressfield
"It’s okay to be an introvert, to seek out the quiet corners at a cocktail party, to care about quality, to have your mood be affected by your surroundings." -Steven Pressfield
"Instead we are tapped into an unquenchable, undepletable, inexhaustible source of wisdom, consciousness, companionship. Yeah, we lose friends. But we find friends too, in places we never thought to look. And they’re better friends, truer friends. And we’re better and truer to them." -Steven Pressfield
"You have never tasted freedom, friend," Dienekes spoke, "or you would know it is purchased not with gold, but steel." -Steven Pressfield
"He knows that any job, whether it's a novel or a kitchen remodel, takes twice as long as he thinks and costs twice as much. He accepts that. He recognizes it as reality." -Steven Pressfield
"The professional concentrates on the work and allows rewards to come or not come, whatever they like." -Steven Pressfield
"The enemy is a very good teacher. — the Dalai Lama" -Steven Pressfield
"If tomorrow morning by some stroke of magic every dazed and benighted soul woke up with the power to take the first step toward pursuing his or her dreams, every shrink in the directory would be out of business. Prisons would stand empty. The alcohol and tobacco industries would collapse, along with the junk food, cosmetic surgery, and infotainment businesses, not to mention pharmaceutical companies, hospitals, and the medical profession from top to bottom. Domestic abuse would become extinct, as would addiction, obesity, migraine headaches, road rage, and dandruff." -Steven Pressfield
"You imagined we had entered unknown country, my friend, when we voyaged across the sea to Amazonia. Yet that was nothing beside the frontier I cross each evening with this woman who is my equal. Each dawn new continents are sighted; each night one alights on shores where no man’s sole has trod." He" -Steven Pressfield
"There's a problem with the hierarchical orientation, though. When the numbers get too big, the thing breaks down. A pecking order can hold only so many chickens." -Steven Pressfield
"Whatever you can do or dream you can, begin it. Boldness has genius, power and magic in it. Begin it now." -Steven Pressfield
"The professional is prepared at a deeper level. He is prepared, each day, to confront his own self-sabotage." -Steven Pressfield
"He's a sturdy fellow, bald as a hen's egg, and like all engineers, practical as a pensioner." -Steven Pressfield
"Faced with our imminent extinction, Tom Laughlin believes, all assumptions are called into question." -Steven Pressfield
"You become an artist once you start saying that you are an artist" ,Steven Pressfield
"Now it’s 1967. Nasser and the Arabs are saying to themselves: The Jews have beaten us in Round One and Round Two, but we will wipe them out for good in Round Three." -Steven Pressfield
"At the beginning, the author's writing was like a selfie: a disposable plea for attention that was all about him and his life. But since he hadn't done much living, there wasn't much substance." -Steven Pressfield
"Do not tell me death is real. It is not. I have sustained my heart for ages with the love my brother passed on to me, dead as he was." -Steven Pressfield
"A child has no trouble believing the unbelievable, nor does the genius or the madman." -Steven Pressfield
"What we get when we turn pro is we find our power. We find our will and our voice and we find our self-respect. We become who we always were but had, until then, been afraid to embrace and live out." -Steven Pressfield
"The professional loves it so much he dedicates his life to it. He commits full-time. That's what I mean when I say turning pro. Resistance hates it when we turn pro." -Steven Pressfield
"Remember, they hate us as no other nation, for we are to them that which they fear beyond all: women unmastered by men." -Steven Pressfield
"Attention Deficit Disorder, Seasonal Affect Disorder, Social Anxiety Disorder. These aren't diseases, they're marketing ploys. Doctors didn't discover them, copywriters did." -Steven Pressfield
"Like us, those vanished warriors planted their standards in the sands of their own self-summoned extinction." ,Steven Pressfield
"RESISTANCE AND PROCRASTINATION   Procrastination is the most common manifestation of Resistance because it’s the easiest to rationalize. We don’t tell ourselves, "I’m never going to write my symphony." Instead we say, "I am going to write my symphony; I’m just going to start tomorrow." -Steven Pressfield
"Our very existence makes them abominate us, for it calls their own wives and daughters to aspire to freedom." -Steven Pressfield
"What does Resistance feel like? First, unhappiness. We feel like hell. A low-grade misery pervades everything. We're bored, we're restless. We can't get no satisfaction. There's guilt but we can't put our finger on the source. We want to go back to bed; we want to get up and party. We feel unloved and unlovable. We're disgusted. We hate our lives. We hate ourselves." -Steven Pressfield
"I'm keenly aware of the Principle of Priority, which states (a) you must know the difference between what is urgent and what is important, and (b) you must do what's important first. What's important is the work. That's the game I have to suit up for. That's the field on which I have to leave everything I've got." -Steven Pressfield
"What are we trying to heal, anyway? The athlete knows the day will never come when he wakes up pain-free. He has to play hurt." -Steven Pressfield
"The only items you get to keep are love for the work, will to finish, and passion to serve the ethical, creative Muse." -Steven Pressfield
"Depression and anxiety may be real. But they can also be Resistance. When we drug ourselves to blot out our soul's call, we are being good Americans and exemplary consumers. We're doing exactly what TV commercials and pop materialist culture have been brainwashing us to do from birth. Instead of applying self-knowledge, self-discipline, delayed gratification and hard work, we simply consume a product. Many pedestrians have been maimed or killed at the intersection of Resistance and Commerce." -Steven Pressfield
"A king does not abide within his tent while his men bleed and die upon the field. A king does not dine while his men go hungry, nor sleep when they stand at watch upon the wall. A king does not command his men’s loyalty through fear nor purchase it with gold; he earns their love by the sweat of his own back and the pains he endures for their sake. That which comprises the harshest burden, a king lifts first and sets down last. A king does not require service of those he leads but provides it to them. He serves them, not they him." -Steven Pressfield
"The hack is like a politician who consults the polls before he takes a position. He's a demagogue. He panders." -Steven Pressfield
"Figure out where you want to go; then work backwards from there." -Steven Pressfield
"Resistance, his all-encompassing term for what Freud called the Death Wish — that destructive force inside human nature that rises whenever we consider a tough, long-term course of action that might do for us or others something that's actually good." -Steven Pressfield
"The professional conducts his business in the real world. Adversity, injustice, bad hops, and rotten calls, even good breaks and lucky bounces all comprise the ground over which the campaign must be waged. The field is level, the professional understands, only in heaven." -Steven Pressfield
"The artist and the fundamentalist arise from societies at differing stages of development. The artist is the advanced model. His culture possesses affluence, stability, enough excess of resource to permit the luxury of self-examination. The artist is grounded in freedom. He is not afraid of it. He is lucky. He was born in the right place. He has a core of self- confidence, of hope for the future. He believes in progress and evolution. His faith is that humankind is advancing, however haltingly and imperfectly, toward a better world. The fundamentalist entertains no such notion. In his view, humanity has fallen from a higher state. The truth is not out there awaiting revelation; it has already been revealed. The word of God has been spoken and recorded by His prophet, be he Jesus, Muhammad, or Karl Marx." -Steven Pressfield
"We all fight wars—in our work, within our families and abroad in the wider world. Each of us struggles every day to define and defend our sense of purpose and integrity, to justify our existence on the planet and to understand, if only within our own hearts, who we are and what we believe in." -Steven Pressfield
"Resistance is the enemy within." -Steven Pressfield
"Panic Is Good Creative panic is good. Here’s why: Our greatest fear is fear of success. When we are succeeding—that is, when we have begun to overcome our self-doubt and self-sabotage, when we are advancing in our craft and evolving to a higher level—that’s when panic strikes. It did for me when my book crashed, and it was the best thing that happened to me all year. When we experience panic, it means that we’re about to cross a threshold. We’re poised on the doorstep of a higher plane. Have you ever watched a small child take a few bold steps away from its mother? The little boy or girl shows great courage. She ventures forth, feels exhilaration, and then … she realizes what she has done. She freaks. She bolts back to Mommy. That’s you and me when we’re growing." -Steven Pressfield
"A child has no trouble believing the unvelievable, nor does the genius or the madman. It's only you and I, with our big brains and tiny hearts, who doubt and overthink and hesitate." ,Steven Pressfield
"But rationalization has its own sidekick. It's that part of our psyche that actually believes what rationalization tells us. It's one thing to lie to ourselves. It's another thing to believe it." -Steven Pressfield
"When we sit down and work, we become like a magnetized rod that attracts iron filings. Ideas come. Insights accrete." -Steven Pressfield
"Let us conduct ourselves so that all men wish to be our friends and all fear to be our enemies." -Steven Pressfield
"The artist must be like that Marine. He has to know how to be miserable. He has to love being miserable. He has to take pride in being more miserable than any soldier or swabbie or jet jockey. Because this is war, baby. And war is hell." -Steven Pressfield
"The capacity for empathy and self-restraint will serve us powerfully, not only in our external wars but in the conflicts within our own hearts." -Steven Pressfield
"In this uprising we free ourselves from the tyranny of consumer culture. We overthrow the programming of advertising, movies, video games, magazines, TV, and MTV by which we have been hypnotized from the cradle. We unplug ourselves from the grid by recognizing that we will never cure our restlessness by contributing our disposable income to the bottom line of Bullshit, Inc., but only by doing our work." -Steven Pressfield
"We want action. We seek to test ourselves. We want friends—real friends, who will put themselves on the line for us—and we want to do the same for them. We’re seeking some force that will hurl us out of our going-nowhere lives and into the real world, into genuine hazard and risk. We want to be part of something greater than ourselves, something we can be proud of. And we want to come out of the process as different (and better) people than we were when we went in. We want to be men, not boys. We want to be women, not girls." -Steven Pressfield
"Whatever you can do, or dream you can, begin it. Boldness has genius, magic, and power in it. Begin it now." -Steven Pressfield
"Resistance is the most toxic force on the planet. It is the root of more unhappiness than poverty, disease, and erectile dysfunction. To yield to Resistance deforms our spirit. It stunts us and makes us less than we are and were born to be. If you believe in God (and I do) you must declare Resistance evil, for it prevents us from achieving the life God intended when He endowed each of us with our own unique genius." -Steven Pressfield
"Leonidas’s and Dienekes’ quips draw the individual out of his private terror and yoke him to the group." -Steven Pressfield
"The enemy is our chattering brain, which, if we give it so much as a nanosecond, will start producing excuses, alibis, transparent self-justifications, and a million reasons why we can’t/shouldn’t/won’t do what we know we need to do." -Steven Pressfield
"Every sun casts a shadow, and genius's shadow is Resistance." -Steven Pressfield
"Last of terror’s stages, Selene had tutored Europa and me, is busyness." -Steven Pressfield
"Crazy,' says Paddy Mayne, 'is our business." -Steven Pressfield
"The power to take charge was in my hands; all I had to do was believe it." -Steven Pressfield
"It is one thing to study war and another to live the warrior’s life.   —Telamon of Arcadia, mercenary of the fifth century B.C." -Steven Pressfield
"Do it or don't do it." -Steven Pressfield
"When you move your material ass to the geographic site of your dream, your peers and potential mentors think at once, This person is serious. She has committed. She has burned the boats. She is one of us." -Steven Pressfield
"These days, of course, a branding presence is even more indispensable to an artist or entrepreneur. Can we do it? Are we intimidated? Are we too shy or introverted? Too proud? You and I can’t put half our ass where our heart wants to be. We have to be in all the way." -Steven Pressfield
"A professional does not take success or failure personally." -Steven Pressfield
"preparation, order, patience, endurance, acting in the face of fear and failure" -Steven Pressfield
"Our team has zero; has he got Close Air Support, drones, anything?" -Steven Pressfield
"When we experience panic, it means that we’re about to cross a threshold. We’re poised on the doorstep of a higher plane." -Steven Pressfield
"talent: the innate power to discover the hidden connection between two things — images, ideas, words — that no one else has ever seen before, link them, and create for the world a third, utterly unique work." -Steven Pressfield
"Eternity is in love with the creations of time," -Steven Pressfield
"it. If you find yourself asking yourself (and your friends), 'Am I really a writer? Am I really an artist?' chances are you are." -Steven Pressfield
"This very moment, we can change our lives. There never was a moment, and never will be, when we are without the power to alter our destiny." -Steven Pressfield
"Who are these pilots anyway? They get the best of everything; their demands eat up the defense budget. Can we count on them? What do they do except wear Ray-Bans and eat steaks and go home each night to sleep on clean sheets?" -Steven Pressfield
"that of dealing death, of loosing another man’s soul and sending it down to hell. You want to savor it, to twist the blade deeper and pull the man’s heart and guts out upon the iron point of your spear," -Steven Pressfield
"The professional endures adversity. He lets the birdshit splash down on his slicker, remembering that it comes clean with a heavy-duty hosing. He himself, his creative center, cannot be buried, even beneath a mountain of guano. His core is bulletproof. Nothing can touch it unless he lets it. I saw a fat happy old guy once in his Cadillac on the freeway. He had the A/C going, Pointer Sisters on the CD, puffing on a stogie. His license plate: DUES PD The professional keeps his eye on the doughnut and not on the hole. He reminds himself it's better to be in the arena, getting stomped by the bull, than to be up in the stands or out in the parking lot." -Steven Pressfield
"Even a blind squirrel finds an acorn every once in a while." -Steven Pressfield
"It is one thing to study war and another to live the warrior’s life." -Steven Pressfield
"The most highly cultured mother gives birth sweating and dislocated and cursing like a sailor. That’s the place we inhabit as artists and innovators. It’s the place we must become comfortable with." -Steven Pressfield
"I must carry on—for my mates, for England, for Rose and for our child. The alternative is unthinkable. With this, I understand the perverse logic of war and the true tragedy of armed conflict. The enemy against whom we fight are human beings like ourselves, individuals with whom each of us might have been friends except for the deranged fictions of nation, doctrine, race and religion, and whom now we must murder (as they seek to murder us) in the name of those very same fictions." -Steven Pressfield
"Casting yourself as a victim is the antithesis of doing your work." -Steven Pressfield
"Remember, the Muse favors working stiffs. She hates prima donnas. To the gods the supreme sin is not rape or murder, but pride." -Steven Pressfield
"Because the most important thing about art is to work. Nothing else matters except sitting down every day and trying." -Steven Pressfield
"Whatever you can do or dream you can, begin it. Boldness has genius, power and magic in it." -Steven Pressfield
"NO MYSTERY There's no mystery to turning pro. It's a decision brought about by an act of will. We make up our minds to view ourselves as pros and we do it. Simple as that." -Steven Pressfield
"These characters might not be interesting to anyone else but they're absolutely fascinating to us. They are us. Meaner, smarter, sexier versions of ourselves. It's fun to be with them because they're wrestling with the same issue that has its hooks into us. They're our soul mates, our lovers, our best friends. Even the villains. Especially the villains." -Steven Pressfield
"Resistance is diabolical. It can harness our drive for greatness and our instinct for professionalism and yoke them, instead, to a shadow profession, whose demands will keep us from turning our energies toward their true course." -Steven Pressfield
"When we drug ourselves to blot out our soul's call, we are being good Americans and exemplary consumers. We're doing exactly what TV commercials and pop materialist culture have been brainwashing us to do from birth." -Steven Pressfield
"I, on the other hand, believe that the source of creativity is found on the same plane of reality as Resistance." -Steven Pressfield
"Men feared even the shade of Alexander, lest they encounter him again beneath the earth, for surely in that world, too, none would surpass him." -Steven Pressfield
"Whatever you can do, or dream you can, begin it. Boldness has genius, magic, and power in it. Begin it now."   —W. H. Murray, The Scottish Himalayan Expedition" -Steven Pressfield
"There's a secret that real writers know that wannabe writers don't, and the secret is this: It's not the writing part that's hard. What's hard is sitting down to write." -Steven Pressfield
"the man who really loves his country is not the one who refuses to attack it when he has been unjustly driven from it, but the man whose desire for it is so strong that he will shrink from nothing in his efforts to get back there again." -Steven Pressfield
"It is one thing to study war and another to live the warrior's life. — Telamon of Arcadia, mercenary of the fifth century B.C." -Steven Pressfield
"If you take Resistance at its word, you deserve everything you get. Resistance is always lying and always full of shit." -Steven Pressfield
"While those who will not govern themselves are condemned to find masters to govern over them." -Steven Pressfield
"We are now faced with the fact, my friends, that tomorrow is today. We are confronted with the fierce urgency of now. In this unfolding conundrum of life and history, there is such a thing as being too late. Procrastination is still the thief of time. Life often leaves us standing bare, naked, and dejected with a lost opportunity. The tide in the affairs of men does not remain at flood—it ebbs. We may cry out desperately for time to pause in her passage, but time is adamant to every plea and rushes on. Over the bleached bones and jumbled residues of numerous civilizations are written the pathetic words, "Too late."   Martin Luther King, Jr. Beyond Vietnam – A Time to Break Silence New York City, April 4, 1967" -Steven Pressfield
"We master the technique of our jobs." -Steven Pressfield
"The awakening artist must be ruthless, not only with herself but with others. Once you make your break, you can't turn around for your buddy who catches his trouser leg on the barbed wire. The best thing you can do for that friend (and he'd tell you this himself, if he really is your friend) is to get over the wall and keep motating." -Steven Pressfield
"the Spartan right fall upon the defenders of Antirhion, not in frenzied shrieking rage, lip-curled and fang-bared, but predator-like, cold-blooded, applying the steel with the wordless cohesion of the killing pack and the homicidal efficiency of the hunt." -Steven Pressfield
"The concept in all these environments seems to be that one needs to complete his healing before he is ready to do his work." -Steven Pressfield
"W. H. Murray said: Until one is committed, there is hesitancy, the chance to draw back, always ineffectiveness. Concerning all acts of initiative (and creation), there is one elementary truth, the ignorance of which kills countless ideas and splendid plans: that the moment one definitely commits oneself, then Providence moves too. A whole stream of events issues from the decision, raising in one’s favor all manner of unforeseen incidents and meetings and material assistance which no man could have dreamed would have come his way. I have learned a deep respect for one of Goethe’s couplets: "Whatever you can do or dream you can, begin it. Boldness has genius, power and magic in it." Begin it now." -Steven Pressfield
"You have asked, Itanes, if I feel fear. I answer, I may not. The soldier in the line is permitted to feel terror; the commander never. Too much depends upon him - the lives of his mates, the fate of the action. He cannot allow himself the luxury of fear. I eat mine, as a lion devours a kid. I consume it by my will to glory and my obligation to the corps." -Steven Pressfield
"Get your idea down on paper. You can always tweak it later." -Steven Pressfield
"Give the act to me.Purged of hope and ego,Fix your attention on the soul.Act and do for me." -Steven Pressfield
"When we drug ourselves to blot out our soul's call, we are being good Americans and exemplary consumers. We're doing exactly what TV commercials and pop materialist culture have been brainwashing us to do from birth. Instead of applying self-knowledge, self-discipline, delayed gratification and hard work, we simply consume a product. Many" -Steven Pressfield
"THE ARTIST'S LIFE Are you a born writer?" -Steven Pressfield
"Why have I stressed professionalism so heavily? Because the most important thing about art is to work. Nothing else matters except sitting down every day and trying." -Steven Pressfield
"Fear saps passion." -Steven Pressfield
"any act that derives from our higher nature instead of our lower. Any of these acts will elicit Resistance." -Steven Pressfield
"Sometimes entire families participate unconsciously in a culture of self-dramatization. The kids fuel the tanks, the grown-ups arm the phasers, the whole starship lurches from one spine-tingling episode to another. And the crew knows how to keep it going. If the level of drama drops below a certain threshold, someone jumps in to amp it up. Dad gets drunk, Mom gets sick, Janie shows up for church with an Oakland Raiders tattoo. It's more fun than a movie. And it works: Nobody gets a damn thing done. Sometimes" -Steven Pressfield
"The hero wanders. The hero suffers. The hero returns." -Steven Pressfield
"The writer is an infantryman. He knows that progress is measured in yards of dirt extracted from the enemy one day, one hour, one minute at a time and paid for in blood. The artist wears combat boots. He looks in the mirror and sees GI Joe. Remember, the Muse favors working stiffs. She hates prima donnas. To the gods the supreme sin is not rape or murder, but pride." -Steven Pressfield
"I once worked as a writer for a big New York ad agency. Our boss used to tell us: Invent a disease. Come up with the disease, he said, and we can sell the cure. Attention Deficit Disorder, Seasonal Affect Disorder, Social Anxiety Disorder. These aren't diseases, they're marketing ploys. Doctors didn't discover them, copywriters did. Marketing departments did. Drug companies did. Depression and anxiety may be real. But they can also be Resistance. When we drug ourselves to blot out our soul's call, we are being good Americans and exemplary consumers. We're doing exactly what TV commercials and pop materialist culture have been brainwashing us to do from birth. Instead of applying self-knowledge, self-discipline, delayed gratification and hard work, we simply consume a product." -Steven Pressfield
"The hack is like the politician who consults the polls before he takes a position. He's a demagogue. He panders. It can pay off, being a hack. Given the depraved state of American culture, a slick dude can make millions being a hack. But even if you succeed, you lose, because you've sold out your Muse, and your Muse is you, the best part of yourself, where your finest and only true work comes from. I" -Steven Pressfield
"Those who do not understand war believe it contention between armies, friend against foe. No. Rather friend and foe duel as one against an unseen antagonist, whose name is Fear, and seek, even entwined in death, to mount to that promontory whose ensign is honor." -Steven Pressfield
"Once we commit to action, the worst thing we can do is to stop. What will keep us from stopping? Plain old stubbornness. I like the idea of stubbornness because it’s less lofty than "tenacity" or "perseverance." We don’t have to be heroes to be stubborn. We can just be pains in the butt. When we’re stubborn, there’s no quit in us. We’re mean. We’re mulish. We’re ornery. We’re in till the finish. We will sink our junkyard-dog teeth into Resistance’s ass and not let go, no matter how hard he kicks." -Steven Pressfield
"The professional knows that Resistance is like a telemarketer; if you so much as say hello, you're finished." -Steven Pressfield
"I'm imagining the reader, whom I conjure as an aspiring artist much like my own younger, less grizzled self, to whom I hope to impart a little starch and inspiration and prime, a little, with some hard-knocks wisdom and a few tricks of the trade." -Steven Pressfield
"We slew three hundred of them," replied Artemisia, "and it took two million of us to do it." These" -Steven Pressfield
"The sign of the amateur is overglorification of and preoccupation with the mystery." -Steven Pressfield
"How many of us have become drunks and drug addicts, developed tumors and neuroses, succumbed to pain killers, gossip, and compulsive cell phone use, simply because we don’t do that thing that our hearts, our inner genius, is calling us to?" -Steven Pressfield
"What was clear to me was that something was happening, and that something was a train I couldn't stop or slow down or get off. What was clear too was when it ended. I knew the exact moment. I could feel it. Even then, in that hour, I understood that the experience was of supreme value and importance. I didn't need hindsight. I knew in the moment. My family may have been repelled, even appalled by where I had been and what I had done; my friends may have feared for my sanity; others who cared for me may have shaken their heads at the waste and folly and futility. Even I understood it would take me years to recover. I didn't care. The trip was worth it. Why? Because I now had a history that was mine alone. I had an ordeal that I had survived and a passage that I had paid for with my own blood. Nobody knew about this passage but me. Nobody would ever know, nor did I feel the slightest urge to communicate it. This was mine, and nobody could ever take it away from me. I had punched my ticket. I had filled in the blanks." -Steven Pressfield
"We get ourselves in trouble because it's a cheap way to get attention. Trouble is a faux form of fame." -Steven Pressfield
"You're supposed to learn that things that you think are nothing, as weightless as air, are actually powerful substantial forces, as real and as solid as earth." -Steven Pressfield
"We unplug ourselves from the grid by recognizing that we will never cure our restlessness by contributing our disposable income to the bottom line of Bullshit, Inc., but only by doing our work." -Steven Pressfield
"Resistance plays for keeps. It plays to kill. Resistance is fueled by fear. It has no power on its own. Every ounce of juice it possesses comes from us. Master the fear and we conquer resistance." -Steven Pressfield
"Nikad nisam u bici,ni igdje drugdje ,ni ja ni itko od ljudi prisutnih ispod hrastova,vidio da Dijaneku popuste uzde samokontrole kojima je tako čvrsto i suzdržano upravljao iz srca.Sada se moglo vidjeti kako priziva sve preostale djeliće volje da se sabere i povrati strogoću Spartanca i časnika.Ispustivši dah,koji u stvari nije bio uzdah nego nešto dublje,poput samrtnog zvižduka koji daimon čini kada bježi kroz grlo,pustio je beživotno Aleksandrovo tijelo i nježno ga položio na grimizni ogrtač koji se ispod njega prostirao po zemlji.Svojom desnom rukom potapšao je ruku mladića koji mu je bio štićenik od prvog dana svoga rođenja.-Zaboravio si na naš lov,Aleksandre.Imali bismo tako veličanstven lov ovdje najesen." -Steven Pressfield
"El-Masri lies under gravel and shingle, with no part of him visible aboveground except his left hand" -Steven Pressfield
"Fundamentalism is the philosophy of the powerless, the conquered, the displaced and the dispossessed. Its spawning ground is the wreckage of political and military defeat, as Hebrew fundamentalism arose during the Babylonian captivity, as white Christian fundamentalism appeared in the American South during Reconstruction, as the notion of the Master Race evolved in Germany following World War I. In such desperate times, the vanquished race would perish without a doctrine that restored hope and pride. Islamic fundamentalism ascends from the same landscape of despair and possesses the same tremendous and potent appeal. What exactly is this despair? It is the despair of freedom. The dislocation and emasculation experienced by the individual cut free from the familiar and comforting structures of the tribe and the clan, the village and the family. It is the state of modern life. The" -Steven Pressfield
"P.S. When your deeper Self delivers a dream like that, don't talk about it. Don't dilute its power. The dream is for you. It's between you and your Muse. Shut up and use it." -Steven Pressfield
"We are now faced with the fact, my friends, that tomorrow is today. We are confronted with the fierce urgency of now. In this unfolding conundrum of life and history, there is such a thing as being too late. Procrastination is still the thief of time. Life often leaves us standing bare, naked, and dejected with a lost opportunity. The tide in the affairs of men does not remain at flood—it ebbs. We may cry out desperately for time to pause in her passage, but time is adamant to every plea and rushes on. Over the bleached bones and jumbled residues of numerous civilizations are written the pathetic words, "Too late."   Martin Luther King, Jr." -Steven Pressfield
"The more scared we are of a work or calling, the more sure we can be that we have to do it." -Steven Pressfield
"Nothing fires the warrior’s heart more with courage than to find himself and his comrades at the point of annihilation, at the brink of being routed and overrun, and then to dredge not merely from one’s own bowels or guts but from one’s own discipline and training the presence of mind not to panic, not to yield to the possession of despair, but instead to complete those homely acts of order which Dienekes had ever declared the supreme accomplishment of the warrior: to perform the commonplace under far-from-commonplace conditions. Not only to achieve this for oneself alone, as Achilles or the solo champions of yore, but to do it as part of a unit, to feel about oneself one’s brothers-in-arms, in an instance like this of chaos and disorder, comrades whom one doesn’t even know, with whom one has never trained; to feel them filling the spaces alongside him, from spear side and shield side, fore and rear, to behold one’s comrades likewise rallying, not in a frenzy of mad possession-driven abandon, but with order and self-composure, each man knowing his role and rising to it, drawing strength from him as he draws it from them; the warrior in these moments finds himself lifted as if by the hand of a god. He cannot tell where his being leaves off and that of the comrade beside him begins. In that moment the phalanx forms a unity so dense and all-divining that it performs not merely at the level of a machine or engine of war but, surpassing that, to the state of a single organism, a beast of one blood and heart." -Steven Pressfield
"Leonidas began softly, his voice carrying in the dawn stillness, heard with ease by all. "Shall I tell you where I find this strength, friends? In the eyes of our sons in scarlet before us, yes. And in the countenances of their comrades who will follow in battles to come. But more than that, my heart finds courage from these, our women, who watch in tearless silence as we go." -Steven Pressfield
"The Marine Corps teaches you how to be miserable. This is invaluable for an artist." -Steven Pressfield
"professional learns to recognize envy-driven criticism and to take it for what it is: the supreme compliment. The critic hates most that which he would have done himself if he had had the guts." -Steven Pressfield
"We know what the clan is; we know how to fit into the band and the tribe. What we don't know is how to be alone. We don't know how to be free individuals. The" -Steven Pressfield
"Maybe it's less threatening to believe that our beloved spouse is worthy to live out his or her unlived life, while we are not." -Steven Pressfield
"To yield to Resistance deforms our spirit. It stunts us and makes us less than we are and were born to be. If you believe in God (and I do) you must declare Resistance evil, for it prevents us from achieving the life God intended when He endowed each of us with our own unique genius." -Steven Pressfield
"I wouldn’t say "art" as much as "virtue," in the ancient Greek sense of "andreia" – manly action – or "arete," excellence. In my experience, Resistance kicks in any time we try to move ourselves from a lower plane to a higher. In other words, when we try to align with the better parts of our nature. This move can be creative (art) or physical (athletics) or it can be ethical, moral or spiritual. Have you ever tried to meditate? I have and it kicks my butt every time. Spiritual stuff is hard! But so is making "cold calls" if you’re opening a new business. Somehow the principle is the same. We’re trying to overcome our natural laziness, selfishness, sloppiness, etc. So I wouldn’t say "art," I’d say "virtue." ,Steven Pressfield
"The role of the officer, in my experience, is nothing grander than to stand sentinel over himself and his men, towards the end of keeping them from forgetting who they are and what their objective is, how to get there, and what equipment they’re supposed to have when they arrive." -Steven Pressfield
"The fundamentalist (or, more accurately, the beleaguered individual who comes to embrace fundamentalism) cannot stand freedom. He cannot find his way into the future, so he retreats to the past. He returns in imagination to the glory days of his race and seeks to reconstitute both them and himself in their purer, more virtuous light. He gets back to basics. To fundamentals." -Steven Pressfield
"When we truly understand that the tribe doesn't give a damn, we're free. There is no tribe, and there never was. Our lives are entirely up to us." ,Steven Pressfield
"Fundamentalism is the philosophy of the powerless, the conquered, the displaced and the dispossessed. Its spawning ground is the wreckage of political and military defeat, as Hebrew fundamentalism arose during the Babylonian captivity, as white Christian fundamentalism appeared in the American South during Reconstruction, as the notion of the Master Race evolved in Germany following World War I. In such desperate times, the vanquished race would perish without a doctrine that restored hope and pride. Islamic fundamentalism ascends from the same landscape of despair and possesses the same tremendous and potent appeal." -Steven Pressfield
"It's not the writing part that's hard. What's hard is sitting down to write." -Steven Pressfield
"What better way of avoiding work than going to a workshop?" -Steven Pressfield
"It is one thing to study war and another to live the warrior's life." -Steven Pressfield
"The years have taught me one skill: how to be miserable. I know how to shut up and keep humping. This is a great asset because it's human, the proper role for a mortal." -Steven Pressfield
"First, unhappiness. We feel like hell. A low-grade misery pervades everything. We're bored, we're restless. We can't get no satisfaction. There's guilt but we can't put our finger on the source. We want to go back to bed; we want to get up and party. We feel unloved and unlovable. We're disgusted. We hate our lives. We hate ourselves." -Steven Pressfield
"  The Marine Corps teaches you how to be miserable.   This is invaluable for an artist." -Steven Pressfield
"I hold Olympic records for procrastination. I can procrastinate thinking about my procrastination problem." -Steven Pressfield
"If we think of ourselves as a corporation, it gives us a healthy distance on ourselves. We're less subjective. We don't take blows as personally. We're more cold-blooded; we can price our wares more realistically. Sometimes, as Joe Blow himself, I'm too mild-mannered to go out and sell. But as Joe Blow, Inc., I can pimp the hell out of myself. I'm not me anymore. I'm Me, Inc.I'm a pro." -Steven Pressfield
"My role-options in life and career, I realized, were not limited to Businessman, Athlete, and Boneheaded Patriot." -Steven Pressfield
"Certainly I wouldn't be writing this book, on this subject, if living with freedom were easy. The paradox seems to be, as Socrates demonstrated long ago, that the truly free individual is free only to the extent of his own self-mastery. While those who will not govern themselves are condemned to find masters to govern over them." -Steven Pressfield
"It may be that the human race is not ready for freedom. The air of liberty may be too rarefied for us to breathe. Certainly I wouldn't be writing this book, on this subject, if living with freedom were easy. The paradox seems to be, as Socrates demonstrated long ago, that the truly free individual is free only to the extent of his own self-mastery. While those who will not govern themselves are condemned to find masters to govern over them." -Steven Pressfield
"Self-doubt can be an ally. This is because it serves as an indicator of aspiration. It reflects love, love of something we dream of doing, and desire, desire to do it. If you find yourself asking yourself (and your friends), "Am I really a writer? Am I really an artist?" chances are you are. The counterfeit innovator is wildly self-confident. The real one is scared to death." -Steven Pressfield
"I thought of you when I read this quote from 'The War of Art' by Steven Pressfield, Shawn Coyne -'Most of us have two lives. The life we live, and the unlived life within us. Between the two stands Resistance." -Steven Pressfield
"All of a sudden I understood why I was so moody, neurotic, simultaneously paranoid and megalomaniac, mistrustful, uneasy, driven by ambition but paralyzed by guilt about my ambition, horny, obsessive, compulsive, obsessive-compulsive, not to mention shy, withdrawn, and dandruff-ridden. I was creative. All creative people were like that!" -Steven Pressfield
"Sharon was a realist. He recognized, as did Ben-Gurion and Dayan, that the Arabs had as legitimate a claim to this land as we did, and that they possessed pride and courage and anger, against which no rejoinder existed except the sword." -Steven Pressfield
"A nation is born in blood and purchases with blood its right to stand in the ranks with other nations." -Steven Pressfield
"The opposite of fear is love—love of the challenge, love of the work, the pure joyous passion to take a shot at our dream and see if we can pull it off." -Steven Pressfield
"He looks upon sky and steppe and sees that which God has created. I look and see God Himself." -Steven Pressfield
"I learned this from Robert McKee. A hack, he says, is a writer who second-guesses his audience. When the hack sits down to work, he doesn't ask himself what's in his own heart. He asks what the market is looking for." -Steven Pressfield
"Our birth is but a sleep and a forgetting: The soul that rises with us, our life's star, Hath had elsewhere its setting, And cometh from afar: Not in entire forgetfulness, And not in utter nakedness, But trailing clouds of glory do we come, From God who is our home." -Steven Pressfield
"Remember, the Muse favors working stiffs. She hates prima donnas. To the gods the supreme sin is not rape or murder, but pride. To think of yourself as a mercenary, a gun for hire, implants the proper humility. It purges pride and preciousness." -Steven Pressfield
"That gang or posse that we imagine is sustaining us by the bonds we share is in fact a conglomeration of individuals who are just as fucked up as we are and just as terrified." -Steven Pressfield
"Nor am I "leading" in any way that the military manuals would recognise or commend. I’m just slogging miserably beside the others. But we are one, each giving his all. I catch a second wind, and I feel my brothers-in-arms catch theirs too. By" -Steven Pressfield
"The professional arms himself with patience, not only to give the stars time to align in his career, but to keep himself from flaming out in each individual work. He knows that any job, whether it's a novel or a kitchen remodel, takes twice as long as he thinks and costs twice as much. He accepts that. He recognizes it as reality. The" -Steven Pressfield
"I asked what he was laughing at. "I was just wondering if it was possible to get any more miserable." He chuckled darkly. "I suppose if a river snake crawled up my ass and gave birth to quintuplets…" -Steven Pressfield
"But convey this, above all, to your men: let them not yield preeminence in valor to the Spartans, rather strive to outdo them. Remember, in warfare practice of arms counts for little. Courage tells all, and we Spartans have no monopoly on that. Lead your men with this in mind and all will be well." TWENTY-THREE It was the standing order of my master on campaign that he be woken two hours before dawn, an hour prior to the men of his platoon." -Steven Pressfield
"Resistance. I'm not sure why. Maybe it's easier to endow our partner with the power that we in fact possess but are afraid to act upon. Maybe it's less threatening to believe that our beloved spouse is worthy to live out his or her unlived life, while we are not. Or maybe we're hoping to use our mate as a model. Maybe we believe (or wish we could) that some of our spouse's power will rub off on us, if we just hang around it long enough. This is how Resistance disfigures love. The stew it creates is rich, it's colorful; Tennessee Williams could work it up into a trilogy. But is it love? If we're the supporting partner, shouldn't we face our own failure to pursue our unlived life, rather than hitchhike on our spouse's coattails? And" -Steven Pressfield
"Maugham reckoned another, deeper truth: that by performing the mundane physical act of sitting down and starting to work, he set in motion a mysterious but infallible sequence of events that would produce inspiration, as surely as if the goddess had synchronized her watch with his." -Steven Pressfield
"Are you a born writer? Were you put on earth to be a painter, a scientist, an apostle of peace? In the end the question can only be answered by action. Do it or don't do it." -Steven Pressfield
"Xerxes does not want your lives, sir," Tommie called. "Only your arms." Leonidas laughed. "Tell him to come and get them." -Steven Pressfield
"When we conceive an enterprise and commit to it in the face of our fears, something wonderful happens. A crack appears in the membrane. Like the first craze when a chick pecks at the inside of its shell. Angel midwives congregate around us; they assist as we give birth to ourselves, to that person we were born to be, to the one whose destiny was encoded in our soul, our daimon, our genius." -Steven Pressfield
"The problem with friends and family is that they know us as we are. They are invested in maintaining us as we are." -Steven Pressfield
"Our job in this lifetime is not to shape ourselves into some ideal we imagine we ought to be, but to find out who we already are and become it. If we were born to paint, it's our job to" -Steven Pressfield
"When we conceive an enterprise and commit to it in the face of our fears, something wonderful happens." -Steven Pressfield
"The artist and the fundamentalist arise from societies at differing stages of development. The artist is the advanced model. His culture possesses affluence, stability, enough excess of resource to permit the luxury of self-examination. The artist is grounded in freedom. He is not afraid of it. He is lucky. He was born in the right place. He has a core of self-confidence, of hope for the future. He believes in progress and evolution. His faith is that humankind is advancing, however haltingly and imperfectly, toward a better world.   The fundamentalist entertains no such notion. In his view, humanity has fallen from a higher state. The truth is not out there awaiting revelation; it has already been revealed. The word of God has been spoken and recorded by His prophet, be he Jesus, Muhammad, or Karl Marx.   Fundamentalism is the philosophy of the powerless, the conquered, the displaced and the dispossessed." -Steven Pressfield
"The more important an activity is to your soul's evolution, the more you will feel resistance to it." ,Steven Pressfield
"If Resistance couldn't be beaten, there would be no Fifth Symphony, no Romeo and Juliet, no Golden Gate Bridge. Defeating Resistance is like giving birth. It seems absolutely impossible until you remember that women have been pulling it off successfully, with support and without, for fifty million years." -Steven Pressfield
"The amateur is often unkind or insensitive to others, but she saves her most exquisite cruelty for herself." -Steven Pressfield
"Miraculously, cancers go into remission. People recover. Is it possible, Tom Laughlin asks, that the disease itself evolved as a consequence of actions taken (or not taken) in our lives? Could our unlived lives have exacted their vengeance upon us in the form of cancer? And if they did, can we cure ourselves, now, by living these lives out?" -Steven Pressfield
"That fearsome emotion that animates the female in all-female groups (called outere in Amazon and gynekophoitos in Greek)" -Steven Pressfield
"We're facing dragons too. Fire-breathing griffins of the soul, whom we must outfight and outwit to reach the treasure of our self-in-potential and to release the maiden who is God's plan and destiny for ourselves and the answer to why we were put on this planet." -Steven Pressfield
"In other words, any act that rejects immediate gratification in favor of long-term growth, health, or integrity." -Steven Pressfield
"The more important a call or action is to our soul's evolution, the more Resistance we will feel toward pursuing it." -Steven Pressfield
"The Warrior Ethos evolved to counter the instinct of self-preservation." -Steven Pressfield
"There are gods who watch over lost souls, particularly those who dream, and when these divinities’ unknowable purposes align with the enterprise of these exiled souls, a force begins to flow that is as unquenchable as it is pure, and as knowing as it is indefatigable." -Steven Pressfield
"The universe is not indifferent. It is actively hostile." -Steven Pressfield
"The Bhagavad-Gita changes this. It takes the Warrior Ethos and elevates it to a loftier and nobler plane—the plane of the individual’s inner life, to his struggle to align himself with his own higher nature." -Steven Pressfield
"There's no mystery to turning pro. It's a decision brought about by an act of will. We make up our minds to view ourselves as pros and we do it. Simple as that." -Steven Pressfield
"When Michael Crichton approached the end of a novel (so I’ve read), he used to start getting up earlier and earlier in the morning. He was desperate to keep his mojo going. He’d get up at six, then five, then three-thirty and two-thirty, till he was driving his wife insane. Finally he had to move out of the house. He checked into a hotel (the Kona Village, which ain’t so bad) and worked around the clock till he’d finished the book. Michael Crichton was a pro. He knew that Resistance was strongest at the finish. He" -Steven Pressfield
"The most pernicious aspect of procrastination is that it can become a habit. We don’t just put off our lives today; we put them off till our deathbed." -Steven Pressfield
"Who profits from a king’s fidelity save generations a thousand years unborn, and which of his works will they recall at that remove, or care?" -Steven Pressfield
"The artist committing himself to his calling has volunteered for hell, whether he knows it or not. He will be dining for the duration on a diet of isolation, rejection, self-doubt, despair, ridicule, contempt, and humiliation.   The artist must be like that Marine. He has to know how to be miserable. He has to love being miserable. He has to take pride in being more miserable than any soldier or swabbie or jet jockey. Because this is war, baby. And war is hell." -Steven Pressfield
"Bhagavad-Gita tells us we have a right only to our labor, not to the fruits of our labor." -Steven Pressfield
"We were put here on earth to act as agents of the Infinite, to bring into existence that which is not yet, but which will be, through us." -Steven Pressfield
"We are now faced with the fact, my friends, that tomorrow is today. We are confronted with the fierce urgency of now. In this unfolding conundrum of life and history, there is such a thing as being too late. Procrastination is still the thief of time. Life often leaves us standing bare, naked, and dejected with a lost opportunity. The tide in the affairs of men does not remain at flood—it ebbs. We may cry out desperately for time to pause in her passage, but time is adamant to every plea and rushes on. Over the bleached bones and jumbled residues of numerous civilizations are written the pathetic words, "Too late." Martin Luther King, Jr." -Steven Pressfield
"Decisions are crazy. Sometimes all it takes to get over the hump is a friend who gives you permission." -Steven Pressfield
"The opposite of love isn't hate; it's indifference." -Steven Pressfield
"RESISTANCE PLAYS FOR KEEPS Resistance's goal is not to wound or disable. Resistance aims to kill. Its target is the epicenter of our being: our genius, our soul, the unique and priceless gift we were put on earth to give and that no one else has but us. Resistance means business. When we fight it, we are in a war to the death." -Steven Pressfield
"Improvisation is not a wild scramble at the last minute. You are not pulling plans out of thin air. Improvisation is the payoff of scrupulous preparation and drill." -Steven Pressfield
"There’s a secret that real writers know that wannabe writers don’t, and the secret is this: It’s not the writing part that’s hard. What’s hard is sitting down to write. What keeps us from sitting down is Resistance." -Steven Pressfield
"In my experience, when we project a quality or virtue onto another human being, we ourselves almost always already possess that quality, but we're afraid to embrace (and to live) that truth." -Steven Pressfield
"Cualquier cosa que puedas hacer, o piensas que puedes hacer, empiézala. El atrevimiento posee genio, magia y poder en sí mismo. Empiézalo ahora." -Steven Pressfield
"When an idea pops into our head and we think, "No, this is too crazy," … that’s the idea we want. When we think, "This notion is completely off the wall … should I even take the time to work on this?" … the answer is yes. Never doubt the soup. Never say no. The answer is always yes." -Steven Pressfield
"Theseus overturned this by a single stroke: he moved the sessions outdoors, to the hill of the Pnyx, where the people could attend and observe their betters. What a revolution this affected! Before," -Steven Pressfield
"Ambition, I have come to believe, is the most primal and sacred fundament of our being. To feel ambition and to act upon it is to embrace the unique calling of our souls. Not to act upon that ambition is to turn our backs on ourselves and on the reason for our existence. Those" -Steven Pressfield
"This is how Resistance disfigures love. The stew it creates is rich, it's colorful; Tennessee Williams could work it up into a trilogy. But is it love? If we're the supporting partner, shouldn't we face our own failure to pursue our unlived life, rather than hitchhike on our spouse's coattails? And if we're the supported partner, shouldn't we step out from the glow of our loved one's adoration and instead encourage him to let his own light shine?" -Steven Pressfield
"Tomorrow morning the critic will be gone, but the writer will still be there facing the blank page." -Steven Pressfield
"Colonel L., in whose eyes I was a first-rate Riot Acter or, worse, an intellectual—in his phrase, "someone who reads books"—the most damning appraisal that could be made of a junior lieutenant." -Steven Pressfield
"So if you're paralyzed with fear, it's a good sign. It shows you what you have to do." -Steven Pressfield
"Well, you think you're so clever and classless and free But you're all fucking peasants As far as I can see" -Steven Pressfield
"John Lennon once wrote: Well, you think you're so cleverand classless and freeBut you're all fucking peasantsAs far as I can see" -Steven Pressfield
"What is the pain of being human? It's the condition of being suspended between two worlds and being unable to fully enter into either." -Steven Pressfield
"When we turn pro, we stop running from our fears. We turn around and face them." -Steven Pressfield
"The sarissa’s song is a sad song. He pipes it soft and low. I would ply a gentler trade, says he, But war is all I know." ,Steven Pressfield
"Resistance is a repelling force. It’s negative. Its aim is to shove us away, distract us, prevent us from doing our work." -Steven Pressfield
"We know that if we embrace our ideals, we must prove worthy of them. And that scares the hell out of us." -Steven Pressfield
"Every warrior virtue proceeds from this—courage, selflessness, love of and loyalty to one’s comrades, patience, self-command, the will to endure adversity." -Steven Pressfield
"All genuine epiphanies seem to follow this model: their defining quality is the relinquishment of delusion." -Steven Pressfield
"What fascinates me about the character of Alexander the Great is that he seemed to see the future with such clarity and such intensity as to make it virtually impossible that it would not come true—and that he would be the one to make it so." -Steven Pressfield
"Life is action, Junah. Even choosing not to act, we act. We cannot do otherwise. Therefore act with vigor!" -Steven Pressfield
"Our job in this lifetime is not to shape ourselves into some ideal we imagine we ought to be, but to find out who we already are and become it. If we were born to paint, it's our job to become a painter. If" -Steven Pressfield
"Resistance outwits the amateur with the oldest trick in the book: It uses his own enthusiasm against him. Resistance gets us to plunge into a project with an overambitious and unrealistic timetable for its completion. It knows we can’t sustain that level of intensity. We will hit the wall. We will crash." -Steven Pressfield
"Resistance first feel like unhappiness. We’re bored, no satisfaction, guilt, but we can’t put our finger on it. Vices kick in." -Steven Pressfield
"I’m keenly aware of the Principle of Priority, which states (a) you must know the difference between what is urgent and what is important, and (b) you must do what’s important first." -Steven Pressfield
"Fear doesn’t go away. The warrior and the artist live by the same code of necessity, which dictates that the battle must be fought anew every day." ,Steven Pressfield
"Technically, the professional takes money. Technically, the pro plays for pay. But in the end, he does it for love." -Steven Pressfield
"Who slays a tyrant is no murderer but patriot. A deliverer of his country, as Harmodius and Aristogeiton!" -Steven Pressfield
"The professional loves it so much he dedicates his life to it. He commits full-time." -Steven Pressfield
"Never forget: This very moment, we can change our lives. There never was a moment, and never will be, when we are without the power to alter our destiny." -Steven Pressfield
"go to sleep content, but my final thought is of Resistance. I will wake up with it tomorrow. Already I am steeling myself." -Steven Pressfield
"A DEFINITION OF THE AMATEUR The amateur is young and dumb. He's innocent, he's good-hearted, he's well-intentioned. The amateur is brave. He's inventive and resourceful. He's willing to take a chance. Like Luke Skywalker, the amateur harbors noble aspirations. He has dreams. He seeks liberation and enlightenment. And he's willing, he hopes, to pay the price. The amateur is not evil or crazy. He's not deluded. He's not demented. The amateur is trying to learn. The amateur is you and me. What exactly is an amateur? How does an amateur view himself and the world? What qualities characterize the amateur? THE AMATEUR IS TERRIFIED Fear is the primary color of the amateur's interior world. Fear of failure, fear of success, fear of looking foolish, fear of under-achieving and fear of over-achieving, fear of poverty, fear of loneliness, fear of death. But mostly what we all fear as amateurs is being excluded from the tribe, i.e., the gang, the posse, mother and father, family, nation, race, religion. The amateur fears that if he turns pro and lives out his calling, he will have to live up to who he really is and what he is truly capable of. The amateur is terrified that if the tribe should discover who he really is, he will be kicked out into the cold to die. THE PROFESSIONAL IS TERRIFIED, TOO The professional, by the way, is just as terrified as the amateur. In fact the professional may be more terrified because she is more acutely conscious of herself and of her interior universe. The difference — see Part Three — lies in the way the professional acts in the face of fear." -Steven Pressfield
"Never forget, Alexandros, that this flesh, this body, does not belong to us. Thank God it doesn't. If I thought this stuff was mine, I could not advance a pace into the face of the enemy. But it is not ours, my friend. It belongs to the gods and to our children, our fathers and mothers and those of Lakedaemon a hundred, a thousand years yet unborn. It belongs to the city which gives us all we have and demands no less in requital." -Steven Pressfield
"We can never eliminate Resistance. It will never go away. But we can outsmart it, and we can enlist allies that are as powerful as it is." -Steven Pressfield
"The amateur believes he must first overcome his fear; then he can do his work. The professional knows that fear can never be overcome. He knows there is no such thing as a fearless warrior" -Steven Pressfield
"Someone once asked the Spartan king Leonidas to identify the supreme warrior virtue from which all others flowed. He replied: 'Contempt for death.' For us as artists, read 'failure.' Contempt for failure is our cardinal virtue." -Steven Pressfield
"The word amateur comes from the Latin root meaning 'to love." -Steven Pressfield
"I was crushed. Here I was, forty-two years old, divorced, childless, having given up all normal human pursuits to chase the dream of being a writer; now I've finally got my name on a big-time Hollywood production starring Linda Hamilton, and what happens? I'm a loser, a phony; my life is worthless, and so am I. My friend Tony Keppelman snapped me out of it by asking if I was gonna quit. Hell, no! 'Then be happy. You're where you wanted to be, aren't you? So you're taking a few blows. That's the price for being in the arena and not on the sidelines. Stop complaining and be grateful.' That was when I realized I had become a pro. I had not yet had a success. But I had had a real failure." -Steven Pressfield
"We want a rite of passage. We want to grow up." -Steven Pressfield
"Fear of rejection isn't just psychological; it's biological. It's in our cells. Resistance knows this and uses it against us. It uses fear of rejection to paralyze us and prevent us, if not from doing our work, then from exposing it to public evaluation" -Steven Pressfield
"How else account this usage, that enemies of yore may, by the passage of years alone, become friends?" -Steven Pressfield
"Nothing, not even a horse-breeding establishment, eats cash like a ship, and none gobbles it more greedily than a trireme." -Steven Pressfield
"That was what I did at night. I read all the stuff that you're supposed to read in college but never do, or if you do, you're not paying attention. I read Tolstoy and Dostoevsky and Turgenev. I read Cervantes and Flaubert and Stendhal and Knut Hamsun, and I read every American except Faulkner." -Steven Pressfield
"The professional blows critics off. He doesn't even hear them. Critics, he reminds himself, are the unwitting mouthpieces of Resistance and as such can be truly cunning and pernicious. They can articulate in their reviews the same toxic venom that Resistance itself concocts inside our heads. That is their real evil." -Steven Pressfield
"will tell His Majesty what a king is. A king does not abide within his tent while his men bleed and die upon the field." -Steven Pressfield
"There exists a real danger that our friend Rommel is becoming a kind of magician or bogey-man to our troops, who are talking far too much about him. He is by no means a superman and it is highly undesirable that our men should credit him with supernatural powers. . . . We must refer to "the Germans" or "the Axis powers" . . . and not always keep harping on Rommel. Please impress upon all commanders that, from a psychological point of view, this is a matter of the highest importance.Quote from General Claude Auchinleck, C-in-C of Eighth Army," -Steven Pressfield
"Instead of showing us our fear (which might shame us and impel us to do our work), Resistance presents us with a series of plausible, rational justifications for why we shouldn’t do our work." -Steven Pressfield
"I will tell His Majesty what a king is. A king does not abide within his tent while his men bleed and die upon the field." -Steven Pressfield
"The professional does not permit himself to become hidebound within one incarnation, however comfortable or successful. Like a transmigrating soul, he shucks his outworn body and dons a new one. He continues his journey." -Steven Pressfield
"In an odd way," he says, "your making a hash of this has brought you into the club. We’ve all committed our share of balls-ups. What counts is setting things right and pressing on." -Steven Pressfield
"I understand pulling the pin. I pulled the pin on my first book. I pulled the pin on my marriage. I pulled the pin on Hugh Reaves and Burton Lines. I have never undertaken anything in my life that didn’t end with me pulling the pin. I am determined, now, not to pull the pin. When I came out to California from New York twenty-two months ago, I had twenty-seven hundred dollars in savings from my advertising job. That money is to finish my trucking book. I will finish that sonofabitch or kill myself trying." -Steven Pressfield
"But a ship of war runs on heart as much as sweat. There must be love among the men or you’re finished." -Steven Pressfield
"Monarch butterfly (with a brain the size of the head of a pin), three thousand miles from eastern North America to the Sierra Madre mountains in Mexico, even though not a single butterfly in the migration has made the trip before." -Steven Pressfield
"Good," he said. "Then we’ll have our battle in the shade." -Steven Pressfield
"Rest in peace, motherfucker." -Steven Pressfield
"Questions for ourselves: "How much do we want it?" "What sacrifices are we willing to make to see this project succeed?" "Have we ‘moved’—lock, stock, and barrel—to our inner Paris?" -Steven Pressfield
"The good alone die young." -Steven Pressfield
"This is how we Spartans do it, counterpoising to fear of death a greater fear: that of dishonor. Of exclusion from the pack." -Steven Pressfield
"I will tell His Majesty what a king is. A king does not abide within his tent while his men bleed and die upon the field. A king does not dine while his men go hungry, nor sleep when they stand at watch upon the wall. A king does not command his men’s loyalty through fear nor purchase it with gold; he earns their love by the sweat of his own back and the pains he endures for their sake. That which comprises the harshest burden, a king lifts first and sets down last. A king does not require service of those he leads but provides it to them. He serves them, not they him." -Steven Pressfield
"Film director Frank Oz (who’s also the Muppet master behind Yoda and Miss Piggy) has a term for this all-in state of mind. He calls it "going the distance." This is the test Frank applies at the start of any project—not just to himself but to anyone he will prospectively hire or collaborate with on a movie, a play, whatever. Frank asks himself, "Will this person commit unconditionally to the work? Is this someone I can count on in act 3, when the wheels come off and the faint of heart flee for the exits? Is this someone who will have my back in crunch time?" We’re talking now about the third-level meaning of "Put your ass where your heart wants to be." Commitment over time. Commitment in the face of adversity." -Steven Pressfield
"The Muses were nine sisters, daughters of Zeus and Mnemosyne, which means 'memory.' Their names are Clio, Erato, Thalia, Terpsichore, Calliope, Polyhymnia, Euterpe, Melpomene, and Urania. Their job is to inspire artists." -Steven Pressfield
"Eternity is in love with the creations of time. – William Blake" -Steven Pressfield
"Eternity is in love with the creations of time' means, to me, that in some way these creatures of the higher sphere (or the sphere itself, in the abstract) take joy in what we time-bound beings can bring forth into physical existence in our limited material sphere." -Steven Pressfield
"Our job in this lifetime is not to shape ourselves into some ideal we imagine we ought to be, but to find out who we already are and become it. If" -Steven Pressfield
"An artist has a point of view (page 23): In other words, the director knew what movie he was making. He knew what it was about (subject).He knew what he wanted it to look and sound like (voice, medium of expression, and style)." -Steven Pressfield
"She is a wide bedwho holds both democracy and empire," -Steven Pressfield
"It is one thing to study warand another to live the warrior's life. — Telamon of Arcadia,mercenary of the fifth century B.C." -Steven Pressfield
"Faced with our imminent extinction, Tom Laughlin believes, all assumptions are called into question. What does our life mean? Have we lived it right? Are there vital acts we've left unperformed, crucial words unspoken? Is it too late?" -Steven Pressfield
"Self-doubt can be an ally. This is because it serves as an indicator of aspiration. It reflects love, love of something we dream of doing, and desire, desire to do it. If you find yourself asking yourself (and your friends), 'Am I really a writer? Am I really an artist?' chances are you are." -Steven Pressfield
"What will keep us from stopping? Plain old stubbornness." -Steven Pressfield
"From Ryan Holiday’s Perennial Seller: You can cut back on a lot of things as a leader, but the last thing you can ever skimp on is marketing. Your product needs a champion . . . That must be you. Marketing is your job. It can’t be passed on to someone else. Even if you’re famous, even if you have a million Twitter followers, even if you have a billion dollars to spend . . . it’s still on you and it still won’t be easy. Putting your ass where your heart wants to be means putting it out there where the world can judge it—and doing it in the smartest and most appealing way possible." -Steven Pressfield
"Here's what I think. I think angels make their home in the Self, while Resistance has its seat in the Ego. The fight is between the two. The Self wishes to create, to evolve. The Ego likes things just the way they are." -Steven Pressfield
"What is the artist's journey? (page 33):Everything in her life that is not-artist now falls away.On the surface her new life may look ordinary, even boring. No more catastrophic romances. No more self-destructive binges. (Okay, maybe a few.) No more squandering or disrespecting her gift, her voice, her talent. The artist is on a mission now.Her life has acquired a purpose.What is the artist's life about now? It's about following her Muse.It's about finding her voice. It's about becoming who she really is.On her journey, the artist will produce the works she was born to bring into being. She will be on that journey for the rest of her life." -Steven Pressfield
"The professional does not wait for inspiration; he acts in anticipation of it." -Steven Pressfield
"Turning pro is free, but it's not without cost. When we turn pro, we give up a life with which we may have become extremely comfortable. We give up a self that we have come to identify with and to call our own. We may have to give up friends, lovers, even spouses." -Steven Pressfield
"Resistance cannot be seen, touched, heard, or smelled. But it can be felt. We experience it as an energy field radiating from a work-in-potential. It's a repelling force. It's negative. Its aim is to shove us away, distract us, prevent us from doing our work." -Steven Pressfield
"I believe with unshakeable faith that there will always be something in the box." -Steven Pressfield
"Courage is inseparable from love and leads to what may arguably be the noblest of all warrior virtues: selflessness." ,Steven Pressfield
"The opposite of love isn’t hate; it’s indifference." -Steven Pressfield
"All beings are one. If I hurt you, I hurt myself." -Steven Pressfield
"The artist's journey is internal (page 34):I don't care about the view outside.My focus is interior.The book or movie I'm writing is playing inside my head." -Steven Pressfield
"Resistance is not a peripheral opponent. Resistance arises from within. It is self-generated and self-perpetuated. Resistance is the enemy within." -Steven Pressfield
"Only two things will remain with us across the river: our inhering genius and the hearts we love." -Steven Pressfield
"A child has no trouble believing the unbelievable, nor does the genius or the madman. It’s only you and I, with our big brains and our tiny hearts, who doubt and overthink and hesitate. Don’t think. Act. We can always revise and revisit once we’ve acted. But we can accomplish nothing until we act." -Steven Pressfield
"The artist's journey is a journey of dreams (page 49):The conventional truism is 'Write what you know.' But something mysterious and wonderful happens when we write what we don't know. The Muse enters the arena. Stuff comes out of us from a source we can neither name nor locate." -Steven Pressfield
"Fear saps passion. When we conquer our fears, we discover a boundless, bottomless, inexhaustible well of passion." -Steven Pressfield
"We humans have territories too. Ours are psychological. Stevie Wonder's territory is the piano. Arnold Schwarzenegger's is the gym. When Bill Gates pulls into the parking lot at Microsoft, he's on his territory. When I sit down to write, I'm on mine." -Steven Pressfield
"One, working means you’re getting paid. I know you’re getting peanuts for this job. It doesn’t matter. It’s money, it’s validation. Every buck means you’re a working pro, you’re toiling in your chosen field." -Steven Pressfield
"Remember, our enemy is not lack of preparation; it’s not the difficulty of the project or the state of the marketplace or the emptiness of our bank account." -Steven Pressfield
"TERRITORY VERSUS HIERARCHY In the animal kingdom, individuals define themselves in one of two ways — by their rank within a hierarchy (a hen in a pecking order, a wolf in a pack) or by their connection to a territory (a home base, a hunting ground, a turf)." -Steven Pressfield
"What Westerners call corruption is just life in 75% of the world. Americans still don’t understand this. We think the rest of the planet is like us, or would be if it had the same advantages. We live in a bubble in the States. We make decisions and establish policy based on dream conceptions of the wider universe. We think everyone is the same as we are. We think they want the same things we want.They don’t.They’re not like us at all." -Steven Pressfield
"A body of work (page 57):No matter what a writer or artist may tell you, they have no clue what they're doing before they do it—and, for the most part, while they're doing it. Everything we produce as artists comes from a source beyond our conscious awareness." ,Steven Pressfield
"Who walks his path beside me Feels my hand upon him always. No effort he makes is wasted, Nor unseen, unguided by me." -Steven Pressfield
"found that what I had desired all my life was not to live—if what others are doing is called living—but to express myself. I realized that I had never had the least interest in living, but only in this which I am doing now, something which is parallel to life, of it at the same time, and beyond it. What is true interests me scarcely at all, nor even what is real; only that interests me which I imagine to be, that which I had stifled every day in order to live. —Henry Miller, Tropic of Capricorn" -Steven Pressfield
"Resistance is like the Alien or the Terminator or the shark in Jaws. It cannot be reasoned with. It understands nothing but power. It is an engine of destruction, programmed from the factory with one object only: to prevent us from doing our work. Resistance is implacable, intractable, indefatigable. Reduce it to a single cell and that cell will continue to attack. This is Resistance's nature. It's all it knows." -Steven Pressfield
"Arabs lie. Let me tell you this, Gent, if you don’t know it already. We lie for fun, we lie for profit, we lie all the time, and we don’t even know why." -Steven Pressfield
"Fear is good. Like self-doubt, fear is an indicator. Fear tells us what we have to do. Remember our rule of thumb: The more scared we are of a work or calling, the more sure we can be that we have to do it." -Steven Pressfield
"disgusted." -Steven Pressfield
"Start before you’re ready. Good things happen when we start before we’re ready. For one thing, we show huevos. Our blood heats up. Courage begets more courage. The gods, witnessing our boldness, look on in approval." -Steven Pressfield
"The artist learns how to let go (page 80):I couldn't stop my eye from returning to those abandoned paintings. I asked Bob if he ever hauled any back out and tried again to make them work.'I used to,' he said.Then he shook his head. 'You gotta know when to let go." -Steven Pressfield
"The artist learns how to be alone (page 81):She trains herself to find emotional and spiritual sustenance in the work. Her need for third-party validation attenuates. She may still ask you of her work, 'What do you think?' But she evaluates your response within the framework of her own self-grounded assessment of her gifts and aspirations..." -Steven Pressfield
"Remember, the Muse favors working stiffs. She hates prima donnas. To the gods the supreme sin is not rape or murder, but pride. To think of yourself as a mercenary, a gun for hire, implants the proper humility." -Steven Pressfield
"Start playing from power. We can always dial it back later. If we don’t swing for the seats from the start, we’ll never be able to drive a fastball into the upper deck." -Steven Pressfield
"The artist learns to be brave (page 91):Elite warriors are trained to 'run toward the sound of the guns.'The artist lives by that principle too.What projects terrifies her most? What work is she certain she can never pull off? What role will push her past her limits, take her into place she has never gone? What journey will carry her off the map entirely?" -Steven Pressfield
"don’t overthink. Don’t overprepare. Don’t let research become Resistance. Don’t spend six months compiling a thousand-page tome detailing the emotional matrix and family history of every character in your book. Outline it fast. Now. On instinct. Discipline yourself to boil down your story/new business/philanthropic enterprise to a single page." -Steven Pressfield
"My hero, James Rhodes (page 146):I didn't play the piano for 10 years. A decade of slow death by greed working in the City, chasing something that never existed in the first place [security, self-worth, etc.] And only when the pain of not doing it got greater than the imagined pain of doing it did I somehow find the balls to pursue what I really wanted and had been obsessed by since the age of seven—to be a concert pianist." -Steven Pressfield
"Resistance is experienced as fear; the degree of fear equates to the strength of Resistance. Therefore the more fear we feel about a specific enterprise, the more certain we can be that that enterprise is important to us and to the growth of our soul." -Steven Pressfield
"The pain of not doing it (page 149):That pain is the pain of the daimon, imprisoned in its owner's body and prevented by its owner's fear from stepping forth and living out its destiny. When James Rhodes plunged into his 'piano course,' he set his daimon free. He followed it. He surrendered to it. That's how the daimon expresses itself. It inflicts such inner torment on us that it compels us to respond to its demands." -Steven Pressfield
"the truly free individual is free only to the extent of his own self-mastery. While those who will not govern themselves are condemned to find masters to govern over them." -Steven Pressfield
"What I call Professionalism someone else might call the Artist's Code or the Warrior's Way. It's an attitude of egolessness and service. The Knights of the Round Table were chaste and self-effacing. Yet they dueled dragons." -Steven Pressfield
"Fuck the marshmallows." -Steven Pressfield
"A Jew asks over and over, "What is fair? What is just? Who is a good man, and why?" -Steven Pressfield
"I remember rolling the last page out and adding it to the stack that was the finished manuscript. Nobody knew I was done. Nobody cared. But I knew. I felt like a dragon I'd been fighting all my life had just dropped dead at my feet and gasped out its last sulfuric breath. Rest in peace, motherfucker." -Steven Pressfield
"amateur composer will never write his symphony because he is overly invested in its success and overterrified of its failure. The amateur takes it so seriously it paralyzes him." -Steven Pressfield
"We glide about in a daze, disconnected from our reason." -Steven Pressfield
"COMBATING RESISTANCE Turning Pro It is one thing to study warand another to live the warrior's life. — Telamon of Arcadia,mercenary" -Steven Pressfield
"Remember, as artists we don't know diddly. We're winging it every day. For us to try to second-guess our Muse the way a hack second-guesses his audience is condescension to heaven. It's blasphemy and sacrilege. Instead let's ask ourselves like that new mother: What do I feel growing inside me? Let me bring that forth, if I can, for its own sake and not for what it can do for me or how it can advance my standing." -Steven Pressfield
"There is another telling aspect to a show of naval might. This is its temerity. A fleet carries with it the audacity of its enterprise. The stay-at-home foe is stricken by its sudden apparition. The enemy beholding a navy advancing upon him out of the aether is struck with dread, as Priam himself when Achilles’ black ships beached upon the plain of Troy." -Steven Pressfield
"nothing good in life comes but at a price. Sweetest of all is liberty." -Steven Pressfield
"by toiling beside the front door of technique, he leaves room for genius to enter by the back." -Steven Pressfield
"Next to Resistance, rational thought is the artist or entrepreneur’s worst enemy. Bad things happen when we employ rational thought, because rational thought comes from the ego. Instead, we want to work from the Self, that is, from instinct and intuition, from the unconscious." -Steven Pressfield
"The pro stands at one remove from her instrument— meaning her person, her body, her voice, her talent; the physical, mental, emotional, and psychological being she uses in her work. She does not identify with this instrument. It is simply what God gave her, what she has to work with. She assesses it coolly, impersonally, objectively. The professional identifies with her consciousness and her will, not with the matter that her consciousness and will manipulate to serve her art. Does Madonna walk around the house in cone bras and come-fuck-me bustiers? She’s too busy planning D-Day. Madonna does not identify with "Madonna." Madonna employs "Madonna." -Steven Pressfield
"Fear of Success I’ve never read anything better on the subject than this from Marianne Williamson: Our deepest fear is not that we are inadequate. Our deepest fear is that we are powerful beyond measure. It is our light, not our darkness, that most frightens us. We ask ourselves, Who am I to be brilliant, gorgeous, talented, fabulous? Actually, who are you not to be? You are a child of God. Your playing small does not serve the world. There is nothing enlightened about shrinking so that other people won’t feel insecure around you. We are all meant to shine, as children do. We were born to make manifest the glory of God that is within us. It’s not just in some of us; it’s in everyone. And as we let our own light shine, we unconsciously give other people permission to do the same. As we are liberated from our own fear, our presence automatically liberates others." -Steven Pressfield
"A victim act is a form of passive aggression. It seeks to achieve gratification not by honest work or a contribution made out of one's experience or insight or love, but by the manipulation of others through silent (and not-so-silent) threat. The victim compels others to come to his rescue or to behave as he wishes by holding them hostage to the prospect of his own further illness/meltdown/mental dissolution, or simply by threatening to make their lives so miserable that they do what he wants. Casting yourself as a victim is the antithesis of doing your work." -Steven Pressfield
"Resistance knows that the amateur composer will never write his symphony because he is overly invested in its success and overterrified of its failure. The amateur takes it so seriously it paralyzes him." -Steven Pressfield
"The will to fight, the passion to be great, is an indispensable element of the Warrior Ethos. It is also a primary quality of leadership, because it inspires men and fires their hearts with ambition and the passion to go beyond their own limits." -Steven Pressfield
"Ignorance and arrogance are the artist and entrepreneur’s indispensable allies. She must be clueless enough to have no idea how difficult her enterprise is going to be—and cocky enough to believe she can pull it off anyway. How do we achieve this state of mind? By staying stupid. By not allowing ourselves to think. A" -Steven Pressfield
"overthink. Don’t overprepare. Don’t let research become Resistance. Don’t spend six months compiling a thousand-page tome detailing the emotional matrix and family history of every character in your book. Outline it fast. Now. On instinct. Discipline yourself to boil down your story/new business/philanthropic" -Steven Pressfield
"A pro views her work as craft, not art. Not because she believes art is devoid of a mystical dimension. On the contrary. She understands that all creative endeavor is holy, but she doesn't dwell on it. She knows if she thinks about that too much, it will paralyze her. So she concentrates on technique. The professional masters how, and leaves what and why to the gods." -Steven Pressfield
"But this is different for me. These are my demons. This is me. This is the shit I do, no matter how hard I try to stop myself." -Steven Pressfield
"The professional is acutely aware of the intangibles that go into inspiration. Out of respect for them, she lets them work. She grants them their sphere while she concentrates on hers." -Steven Pressfield
"Tolstoy had thirteen kids and wrote War and Peace." -Steven Pressfield
"The paradox seems to be, as Socrates demonstrated long ago, that the truly free individual is free only to the extent of his own self-mastery." -Steven Pressfield
"The Spartans do not ask how many are the enemy but where are they. —Plutarch" -Steven Pressfield
"The professional cannot take rejection personally because to do so reinforces Resistance. Editors are not the enemy; critics are not the enemy. Resistance is the enemy. The battle is inside our own heads. We cannot let external criticism, even if it’s true, fortify our internal foe. That foe is strong enough already." -Steven Pressfield
"are never happier than when learning something new." -Steven Pressfield
"Don’t prepare. Begin. Remember, our enemy is not lack of preparation; it’s not the difficulty of the project or the state of the marketplace or the emptiness of our bank account." -Steven Pressfield
"Everything happens to me exactly opposite from how it happens to everyone else." -Steven Pressfield
"The professional keeps his eye on the doughnut and not on the hole. He reminds himself it’s better to be in the arena, getting stomped by the bull, than to be up in the stands or out in the parking lot." -Steven Pressfield
"Our birth is but a sleep and a forgetting: The soul that rises with us, our life's star, Hath had elsewhere its setting, And cometh from afar: Not in entire forgetfulness, And not in utter nakedness, But trailing clouds of glory do we come, From God who is our home. In" -Steven Pressfield
"The professional conducts his business in the real world. Adversity, injustice, bad hops and rotten calls, even good breaks and lucky bounces all comprise the ground over which the campaign must be waged. The field is level, the professional understands, only in heaven." -Steven Pressfield
"We can always revise and revisit once we’ve acted. But we can" -Steven Pressfield
"Gobartes the son of Artabazos" -Steven Pressfield
"Nuestro trabajo en esta vida no es convertirnos en ese ideal que imaginamos ser, sino encontrar la persona que ya somos y convertirnos en ella." -Steven Pressfield
"If you believe in God (and I do) you must declare Resistance evil, for it prevents us from achieving the life God intended when He endowed each of us with our own unique genius. Genius is a Latin word; the Romans used it to denote an inner spirit, holy and inviolable, which watches over us, guiding us to our calling. A writer writes with his genius; an artist paints with hers; everyone who creates operates from this sacramental center. It is our soul's seat, the vessel that holds our being-in-potential, our star's beacon and Polaris." -Steven Pressfield
"Be Stubborn Once we commit to action, the worst thing we can do is to stop. What will keep us from stopping? Plain old stubbornness." -Steven Pressfield
"I was too ashamed of myself, of being a bad husband, a failure as a provider, of bailing out on my would-be novel after almost two years of being supported by my loving wife, that I could no longer stand her seeing me the way I was." -Steven Pressfield
"I would rather have an army of deer commanded by a lion than an army of lions commanded by a deer!" Here" -Steven Pressfield
"Tremendous power lies in the simple, physical act of stationing our body at the epicenter of our dream. There is magic in putting our ass where our heart wants to be." -Steven Pressfield
"When we’re stubborn, there’s no quit in us. We’re mean. We’re mulish. We’re ornery. We’re in till the finish. We will sink our junkyard-dog teeth into Resistance’s ass and not let go, no matter how hard he kicks." -Steven Pressfield
"The pain expressed is derived from real pain. Its genesis is actual suffering, endured by a real person. But the song itself and its rendition are not the real pain, or the artist would choke up and break down. Instead the warble in her voice, the catching of the throat in her performance is art. It is not life. It is artifice. There’s something very deep here. How do we endure pain? How do we transcend it? We turn it into art." -Steven Pressfield
"When you and I set out to create anything—art, commerce, science, love—or to advance in the direction of a higher, nobler version of ourselves, we uncork from the universe, ineluctably, an equal and opposite reaction." -Steven Pressfield
"When people say an artist has a thick skin, what they mean is not that the person is dense or numb, but that he has seated his professional consciousness in a place other than his personal ego. It takes tremendous strength of character to do this, because our deepest instincts run counter to it. Evolution has programmed us to feel rejection in our guts. This is how the tribe enforced obedience, by wielding the threat of expulsion. Fear of rejection isn't just psychological; it's biological. It's in our cells." -Steven Pressfield
"My father used to say that attacking an enemy who outnumbers you is like wrestling with a bear: You have to get your dagger into his heart before the beast crushes you with his paws." -Steven Pressfield
"We emerge from prison bearing agonies that would crush a stone. How do we survive these? We transform them. We get a tattoo. We ink an entire sleeve. We cover our chest and back with swastikas, death’s-heads, and quotes in bogus Mandarin from Kill Bill, Volume Two. We blast our pecs. We pierce our flesh. We customize Harleys. We shave our skull. We craft an image of ourselves, even if it’s one—especially if it’s one—as predictable as low-ride jeans and chrome-link wallet chains. That’s art. That’s our novel. This is what the writer wrestles with. This is the passage. You pound keyboards until you wear the sonsofbitches out. Each page is trash. Unreadable. Unpublishable." -Steven Pressfield
"The professional, on the other hand, understands delayed gratification. He is the ant, not the grasshopper; the tortoise, not the hare. Have you heard the legend of Sylvester Stallone staying up three nights straight to churn out the screenplay for Rocky? I don't know, it may even be true. But it's the most pernicious species of myth to set before the awakening writer, because it seduces him into believing he can pull off the big score without pain and without persistence. The professional arms himself with patience, not only to give the stars time to align in his career, but to keep himself from flaming out in each individual work. He knows that any job, whether it's a novel or a kitchen remodel, takes twice as long as he thinks and costs twice as much. He accepts that. He recognizes it as reality. The professional steels himself at the start of a project, reminding himself it is the Iditarod, not the sixty-yard dash. He conserves his energy. He prepares his mind for the long haul. He sustains himself with the knowledge that if he can just keep those huskies mushing, sooner or later the sled will pull in to Nome." -Steven Pressfield
"It took me nineteen years to earn my first dollar as a pure creative writer and twenty-eight years to get my first novel published." -Steven Pressfield
"It’s not the writing part that’s hard, it’s the sitting down to write. What’s keeps us from sitting down, is resistance." -Steven Pressfield
"Let the unconscious do its work. Research can become Resistance. We want to work, not prepare to work." -Steven Pressfield
"HOW TO BE MISERABLE In my younger days dodging the draft, I somehow wound up in the Marine Corps. There’s a myth that Marine training turns baby-faced recruits into bloodthirsty killers. Trust me, the Marine Corps is not that efficient. What it does teach, however, is a lot more useful. The Marine Corps teaches you how to be miserable. This is invaluable for an artist. Marines love to be miserable. Marines derive a perverse satisfaction from having colder chow, crappier equipment, and higher casualty rates than any outfit of dogfaces, swab jockeys or flyboys, all of whom they despise. Why? Because these candy-asses don’t know how to be miserable. The artist committing himself to his calling has volunteered for hell, whether he knows it or not. He will be dining for the duration on a diet of isolation, rejection, self-doubt, despair, ridicule, contempt, and humiliation. The artist must be like that Marine. He has to know how to be miserable. He has to love being miserable. He has to take pride in being more miserable than any soldier or swabbie or jet jockey. Because this is war, baby. And war is hell." -Steven Pressfield
"Conception occurs at the primal level. I’m not being facetious when I stress, throughout this book, that it is better to be primitive than to be sophisticated, and better to be stupid than to be smart." -Steven Pressfield
"To labor in the arts for any other reason than love, is prostitution." -Steven Pressfield
"Ijust want to be a regular guy. I want the crazy shit in my head to stop. I want to have a job, just a simple job that a regular guy can do, with a place to stay, maybe meet a nice girl someday. How did I get to be this person I am, who can’t do anything, who lives in fear twenty-four hours a day, possesses no skills and no sense of what he wants or how, even if he did know, he could get there?" -Steven Pressfield
"Most of us have two lives. The life we live, and the unlived life within us. Between the two stands Resistance. Have" -Steven Pressfield
"There's a secret that real writers know that wannabe writers don't, and the secret is this: It's not the writing part that's hard. What's hard is sitting down to write. What" -Steven Pressfield
"They are the willing and skilled instruments of the gods and goddesses they serve. THE ARTIST'S LIFE Are you a born writer? Were you put on earth to be a painter, a scientist, an apostle of peace? In the end the question can only be answered by action. Do it or don't do it. It may help to think of it this way. If you were meant to cure cancer or write a symphony or crack cold fusion and you don't do it, you not only hurt yourself, even destroy yourself. You hurt your children. You hurt me. You hurt the planet. You shame the angels who watch over you and you spite the Almighty, who created you and only you with your unique gifts, for the sole purpose of nudging the human race one millimeter farther along its path back to God. Creative work is not a selfish act or a bid for attention on the part of the actor. It's a gift to the world and every being in it. Don't cheat us of your contribution. Give us what you've got. WITH GRATITUDE" -Steven Pressfield
"He meant don’t overthink. Don’t overprepare. Don’t let research become Resistance. Don’t spend six months compiling a thousand-page tome detailing the emotional matrix and family history of every character in your book. Outline it fast. Now. On instinct." -Steven Pressfield
"nothing can alter the fact that beneath the fascist insignia of their uniforms, these men are fathers, husbands, sons. I" -Steven Pressfield
"In defeat one learns who are friends to him, and by whom he is accounted friend." -Steven Pressfield
"The inner critic? His ass is not permitted in the building." -Steven Pressfield
"it was easier for Hitler to start World War II than it was for him to face a blank square of canvas." -Steven Pressfield
"Do you love your idea? Does it feel right on instinct? Are you willing to bleed for it?" -Steven Pressfield
"Of all the manifestations of Resistance, most only harm ourselves. Criticism and cruelty harm others as well." -Steven Pressfield
"End first, then beginning and middle. That’s your startup, that’s your plan for competing in a triathlon, that’s your ballet." -Steven Pressfield
"Genius is a Latin word; the Romans used it to denote an inner spirit, holy and inviolable, which watches over us, guiding us to our calling. A writer writes with his genius; an artist paints with hers; everyone who creates operates from this sacramental center. It is our soul's seat, the vessel that holds our being-in-potential, our star's beacon and Polaris." -Steven Pressfield
"Have you ever meditated? Then you know what it feels like to shift your consciousness to a witnessing mode and to watch thoughts arise, float across your awareness, and then drift away, to be replaced by the next thought and the thought after that. These are not thoughts. They are chatter." -Steven Pressfield
"In this book, when I say "Don’t think," what I mean is: don’t listen to the chatter. Pay no attention to those rambling, disjointed images and notions that drift across the movie screen of your mind." -Steven Pressfield
"The part we create from can't be touched by anything our parents did, or society did. That part is unsullied, uncorrupted; soundproof, waterproof, and bulletproof. In fact, the more troubles we've got, the better and richer that part becomes." -Steven Pressfield
"Chatter is your mother and father’s well-intentioned expressions of caution, seeking to shield you from hurting yourself. Chatter is your teachers’ equally well-meaning attempts at socialization, training you to follow the rules. Chatter is your friends’ regular-Joe buddy-talk, trying to make you like them and follow the rules of the pack. Chatter is Resistance." -Steven Pressfield
"the ordeal had been rendered tolerable, now that I could tell myself it was my own idea." -Steven Pressfield
"Resistance knows that the more psychic energy we expend dredging and re-dredging the tired, boring injustices of our personal lives, the less juice we have to do our work." -Steven Pressfield
"We experience [procrastination] as fear. But fear of what?Fear of the consequences of following our heart. Fear of bankruptcy, fear of poverty, fear of insolvency. Fear of groveling when we try to make it on our own, and of groveling when we give up and come crawling back to where we started. Fear of being selfish, of being rotten wives or disloyal husbands; fear of failing to support our families, of sacrificing their dreams for ours. Fear of betraying our race, our 'hood, our homies. Fear of failure. Fear of being ridiculous. Fear of throwing away the education, the training, the preparation that those we love have sacrificed so much for, that we ourselves have worked our butts off for. Fear of launching into the void, of hurtling too far out there; fear of passing some point of no return, beyond which we cannot recant, cannot reverse, cannot rescind, but must live with this cocked-up choice for the rest of our lives. Fear of madness. Fear of insanity. Fear of death.These are serious fears. But they're not the real fear. Not the master fear, the mother of all fears that's so close to us that even when we verbalize it we don't believe it.Fear That We Will Succeed." -Steven Pressfield
"Resistance never sleeps. It never slackens and it never goes away. The dragon must be slain anew every morning. However, as with anything in life, if you’ve succeeded in the past, at least you know that you can succeed." ,Steven Pressfield
"Its aim is to reconcile you to "the way it is," to make you exactly like everyone else, to render you amenable to societal order and discipline." -Steven Pressfield
"Resistance beat him. Call it overstatement but I'll say it anyway: it was easier for Hitler to start World War II than it was for him to face a blank square of canvas." -Steven Pressfield
"Characteristics of resistance It is invisible, it’s repelling, it’s negative, it’s internal. It is not peripheral opponents. It is insidious, it’ll say anything- it will fabricate, falsify, bully, it will assume any form. It will reason with you like a lawyer or jam a 9 mm like a stickup man. It has no conscious, it will pledge anything to get a deal then double cross you when your back is turned. If you take resistance at it’s word, you deserve everything you get." -Steven Pressfield
"We’ve got our concept, we’ve got our theme. We know our start. We know where we want to finish. We’ve got our project in three acts on a single sheet of foolscap. Ready to roll? We need only to remember our three mantras: Stay primitive. Trust the soup. Swing for the seats. And our final-final precept: 4. Be ready for Resistance." -Steven Pressfield
"Unalleviated, Resistance mounts to a pitch that becomes unendurable. At this point vices kick in. Dope, adultery, web surfing. Beyond that, Resistance becomes clinical. Depression, aggression, dysfunction. Then actual crime and physical self-destruction. Sounds like life, I know. It isn’t. It’s Resistance. What makes it tricky is that we live in a consumer culture that’s acutely aware of this unhappiness and has massed all its profit-seeking artillery to exploit it. By selling us a product, a drug, a distraction." -Steven Pressfield
"Resistance is like an alien or like the shark in jaws, or like the terminator. It cannot be reasoned with. It understands nothing but power. It is an engine of destruction programmed with one object only : to prevent us from doing our work." -Steven Pressfield
"We can never eliminate Resistance. It will never go away. But we can outsmart it, and we can enlist allies that are as powerful as it is. One thing we can never, never permit ourselves to do is to take Resistance lightly, to underestimate it or to fail to take it into account." -Steven Pressfield
"On our single sheet of foolscap we’ve got the Big Beats. Now what? Fill in the gaps. David Lean famously declared that a feature film should have seven or eight major sequences. That’s a pretty good guideline for our play, our album, our State of the Union address." -Steven Pressfield
"Fundamentalism and art are mutually exclusive. There is no such thing as fundamentalist art." -Steven Pressfield
"Do research early or late. Don’t stop working. Never do research in prime working time. Research can be fun. It can be seductive. That’s its danger. We need it, we love it. But we must never forget that research can become Resistance." -Steven Pressfield
"Soak up what you need to fill in the gaps. Keep working." -Steven Pressfield
"(On realising that he is not a born warrior, as the rest of his troop are): A cherished self-conception must be given up, and one feels diminished by it. This is mistaken, however. A person discovers that he has been made stronger by the jettisoning of this sham and disadvantageous bag-gage. In fact, he has become more "himself," by aligning his self-concept more closely with fact." -Steven Pressfield
"Tolstoy had 13 kids and still wrote War & Peace." -Steven Pressfield
"Muse, We are servants of the Mystery. We were put here on earth to act as agents of the Infinite, to bring into existence that which is not yet, but which will be, through us. Every breath we take, every heartbeat, every evolution of every cell comes from God and is sustained by God every second, just as every creation, invention, every bar of music or line of verse, every thought, vision, fantasy, every dumb-ass flop and stroke of genius comes from that infinite intelligence that created us and the universe in all its dimensions, out of the Void, the field of infinite potential, primal chaos, the Muse. To acknowledge that reality, to efface all ego, to let the work come through us and give it back freely to its source, that, in my opinion, is as true to reality as it gets." -Steven Pressfield
"Any project or enterprise can be broken down into beginning, middle, and end. Fill in the gaps; then fill in the gaps between the gaps." -Steven Pressfield
"The hero's journey software in our heads is demanding to be lived out. The blanks are insisting on being filled in." -Steven Pressfield
"I stayed nine weeks. The last four were offshore. Pay doubled on the rigs to four dollars an hour but the best part was meals were free (steak for dinner every night with unlimited milk from the machine) and every week was eighty hours with forty of that counting as time-and-a-half." -Steven Pressfield
"When we’ve got David Lean’s eight sequences, we’re home except for one thing: The actual work. Cover the Canvas One rule for first full working drafts: get them done ASAP." -Steven Pressfield
"What was going through my mind during this time? Nothing. Blue smoke was pouring out of the van’s exhaust. My tires were shot. I couldn’t think beyond that. I was utterly miserable with no plan and not even the thought of hope. I didn’t think about the past. I had no concept of a future. I was happy to be working, though. I was happy to have a bunk and a place to stay. Things could be a lot worse. The first paycheck came after two weeks. I actually opened an account at a rolling branch of the Mississippi River Bank." -Steven Pressfield
"You have never tasted freedom, friend, or you would know it is purchased not with gold, but steel." -Steven Pressfield
"Don’t worry about quality. Act, don’t reflect. Momentum is everything. Get to THE END as if the devil himself were breathing down your neck and poking you in the butt with his pitchfork. Believe me, he is. Get the serum to Nome. Get the Conestoga wagon to the Oregon Trail. Get the first version of your project done from A to Z as fast as you can." -Steven Pressfield
"Only men who do not mind a hard life, with scanty food, little water and lots of discomfort, men who possess stamina and initiative, need apply." -Steven Pressfield
"We are servants of the Mystery. We were put here on earth to act as agents of the Infinite, to bring into existence that which is not yet, but which will be, through us. Every breath we take, every heartbeat, every evolution of every cell comes from God and is sustained by God every second, just as every creation, invention, every bar of music or line of verse, every thought, vision, fantasy, every dumb-ass flop and stroke of genius comes from that infinite intelligence that created us and the universe in all its dimensions, out of the Void, the field of infinite potential, primal chaos, the Muse. To acknowledge that reality, to efface all ego, to let the work come through us and give it back freely to its source, that, in my opinion, is as true to reality as it gets." -Steven Pressfield
"Resistance outwits the amateur with the oldest trick in the book: It uses his own enthusiasm against him." -Steven Pressfield
"You're where you wanted to be, aren't you? So you're taking a few blows. That's the price for being in the arena and not on the sidelines. Stop complaining and be grateful.' That" -Steven Pressfield
"The inner critic? His ass is not permitted in the building. Set forth without fear and without self-censorship. When you hear that voice in your head, blow it off. This draft is not being graded. There will be no pop quiz." -Steven Pressfield
"The amateur has not mastered the technique of his art. Nor does he expose himself to judgment in the real world. If we show our poem to our friend and our friend says, 'It's wonderful, I love it,' that's not real-world feedback, that's our friend being nice to us. Nothing is as empowering as real- world validation, even if it's for failure." -Steven Pressfield
"The professional knows that Resistance is like a telemarketer; if you so much as say hello, you're finished. The pro doesn't even pick up the phone. He stays at work." -Steven Pressfield
"Only one thing matters in this initial draft: get SOMETHING done, however flawed or imperfect." -Steven Pressfield
"the Muse favors working stiffs. She hates prima donnas." -Steven Pressfield
"Vi ste zapovednici, vaši ljudi će u vas gledati i činiti kako vi činite. Nek se niko od vas ne drži sam za sebe ili se bavi sa sabraćom starešinama, već budite po ceo dan među svojim borcima. Neka vas viđaju, i nek vas viđaju neustrašive. Gde god ima kakav posao da se obavi, prvi ga se prihvatite; ljudi će vas slediti. Neki su do vas, kako sam video, podigli šatore. Porušite ih. Spavaćemo kako ja spavam, na otvorenom. Nek vam ljudi stalno udu uposleni. Ako nema nikakvog posla, izmislite ga, jer kad vojska ima vremena za priču,priče se na strah peokreću. Delanje, s druge strane, stvara prohtev za još delanja. -kralj Leonida" -Steven Pressfield
"Suspending self-judgment doesn’t just mean blowing off the "You suck" voice in our heads. It also means liberating ourselves from conventional expectations—from what we think our work "ought" to be or "should" look like." -Steven Pressfield
"And as for the wheel you speak of,’ my master finished, ‘like every other, it turns both ways." -Steven Pressfield
"Stay stupid. Follow your unconventional, crazy heart. If your notion violates every precept I’ve set forth in these pages, tell me to go to hell. Do what that voice says." -Steven Pressfield
"Ideas come according to their own logic. That logic is not rational. It’s not linear. We may get the middle before we get the end. We may get the end before we get the beginning. Be ready for this. Don’t resist it." -Steven Pressfield
"Remember, the part of us that we imagine needs healing is not the part we create from; that part is far deeper and stronger. The part we create from can't be touched by anything our parents did, or society did. That part is unsullied, uncorrupted; soundproof, waterproof, and bulletproof. In fact, the more troubles we've got, the better and richer that part becomes." -Steven Pressfield
"The Process Let’s talk about the actual process—the writing/composing/ idea generation process. It progresses in two stages: action and reflection. Act, reflect. Act, reflect. NEVER act and reflect at the same time." -Steven Pressfield
"You may think that you’ve lost your passion, or that you can’t identify it, or that you have so much of it, it threatens to overwhelm you. None of these is true." -Steven Pressfield
"swear to you, friends, by all the gods, he seems to mehappier in doing us kindnesses than in enriching himself." -Steven Pressfield
"There’s no mystery to turning pro. It’s a decision brought about by an act of will. We make up our mind to view ourselves as pros and we do it. Simple as that." -Steven Pressfield
"Doctors estimate that seventy to eighty percent of their business is non-health-related. People aren't sick, they're self- dramatizing. Sometimes the hardest part of a medical job is keeping a straight face." -Steven Pressfield
"In writing, "action" means putting words on paper. "Reflection" means evaluating what we have on paper." -Steven Pressfield
"No matter what a writer or artist may tell you, they have no clue what they're doing before they do it—and, for the most part, while they're doing it." -Steven Pressfield
"When we do the work for itself alone, our pursuit of a career (or a living or fame or wealth or notoriety) turns into something else, something loftier and nobler, which we may never even have thought about or aspired to at the beginning. It turns into a practice." -Steven Pressfield
"I don't need to read nothing,' said the New Zealander. 'I was there." -Steven Pressfield
"Have you ever wondered why the slang terms for intoxication are so demolition-oriented? Stoned, smashed, hammered. It’s because they’re talking about the Ego. It’s the Ego that gets blasted, waxed, plastered. We demolish the Ego to get to the Self." -Steven Pressfield
"It may be that the human race is not ready for freedom. The air of liberty may be too rarefied for us to breathe. […] The paradox seems to be, as Socrates demonstrated long ago, that the truly free individual is free only to the extent of his own self-mastery. While those who will not govern themselves are condemned to find masters to govern over them." -Steven Pressfield
"In frontline dressing stations, wounded men of Axis and Allied armies often received treatment side by side, on no few occasions from German and British medical officers working shoulder to shoulder. The leading exemplar of this code was Rommel himself. When orders from Hitler mandated the execution of captured British commandos, Rommel tossed the document into the trash." -Steven Pressfield
"Yoga, meditation, and the martial arts access the soul by way of the body. The physical leads to the spiritual. The humble produces the sublime." -Steven Pressfield
"The habits and addictions of the amateur are conscious or unconscious self-inflicted wounds. Their payoff is incapacity. When we take our M1903 Springfield and blow a hole in our foot, we no longer have to face the real fight of our lives, which is to become who we are and to realize our destiny and our calling." -Steven Pressfield
"Now the brave man. In dark hours he endures silently, uncomplaining. Reverencing the round of heaven’s seasons, he does what must be done, sustaining himself with the certainty that to endure injustice with patience is the mark of piety and wisdom." -Steven Pressfield
"Our birth is but a sleep and a forgetting: The soul that rises with us, our life’s star, Hath had elsewhere its setting, And cometh from afar: Not in entire forgetfulness, And not in utter nakedness, But trailing clouds of glory do we come, From God who is our home." -Steven Pressfield
"Resistance will unfailingly point to true north. The action it most wants us to stop, we can let resistance use to guide us. The more important, the more resistance." -Steven Pressfield
"Start playing from power. We can always dial it back later." -Steven Pressfield
"My friend Tony Keppelman snapped me out of it by asking if I was gonna quit. Hell, no! "Then be happy. You’re where you wanted to be, aren’t you? So you’re taking a few blows. That’s the price for being in the arena and not on the sidelines. Stop complaining and be grateful." That was when I realized I had become a pro. I had not yet had a success. But I had had a real failure. FOR LOVE OF THE GAME To clarify a point about professionalism: The professional, though he accepts money, does his work out of love. He has to love it." -Steven Pressfield
"our deepest instincts run counter to it. Evolution has programmed us to feel rejection in our guts. This is how the tribe enforced obedience, by wielding the threat of expulsion. Fear of rejection isn't just psychological; it's biological. It's in our cells." -Steven Pressfield
"Dienekes says the mind is like a house with many rooms. There are rooms one must not go into. To anticipate death is one of those rooms. We must not allow ourselves even to think it." -Steven Pressfield
"So she concentrates on technique. The professional masters how, and leaves what and why to the gods." -Steven Pressfield
"Outline it fast. Now. On instinct. Discipline yourself to boil down your story/new business/philanthropic enterprise to a single page." -Steven Pressfield
"When people say an artist has a thick skin, what they mean is not that the person is dense or numb, but that he has seated his professional consciousness in a place other than his personal ego. It takes tremendous strength of character to do this, because our deepest instincts run counter to it. Evolution has programmed us to feel rejection in our guts. This is how the tribe enforced obedience, by wielding the threat of expulsion. Fear of rejection isn't just psychological; it's biological. It's in our cells. Resistance knows this and uses it against us. It uses fear of rejection to paralyze us and prevent us, if not from doing our work, then from exposing it to public evaluation." -Steven Pressfield
"Someone once asked the Spartan king Leonidas to identify the supreme warrior virtue from which all others flowed. He replied: "Contempt for death."   For us as artists, read "failure." -Steven Pressfield
"The Spartan king Agesilaus was still fighting in armor when he was eighty-two. Picasso was painting past ninety, and Henry Miller was chasing women (I'm sure Picasso was too) at eighty-nine." -Steven Pressfield
"to elevate the race of humankind. To endow each individual with sovereignty over his own heart and to lift the state as a whole to govern itself." -Steven Pressfield
"Muška hrabrost, da se život da za svoju zemlju, velika je ali nije neuobičajna, Zar nije u prirodi mužjaka, među ljudima kao i među zverima, da se bori i nadmeće? Za to smo rođeni, to nam je u krvi. Gledajte ma kog dečaka. Pre nego što i progovori, nagonski poseže za štapom i mačem, dok se njegove sestre bez ikakvog podsticaja klone ovih borilačkih oruđa i umesto toga prigrle na grudi mače ili lutku. Šta je prirodnije za muškarca nego da se bori, a za ženu da voli? Zar ne nalaže tako majčinska krv, da daje i neguje, pre svega ono što je poteklo iz njene utrobe, decu u bolu donesenu na svet? Znamo da će lavica ili vučica bez oklevanja dati život da spasu svoje mladunce. I žene isto tako. Da razmotrimo sada to što nazivamo ženskom hrabrošću: Šta bi moglo biti oprečnije prirodi majke i žene, nego da stoji nepomični dok joj sinovi odlaze u smrt? Zar neće svaka žilica u njenom telu vapiti od bola i protiviti se takvom nasilju nad njom? Zar neće njeno namučeno srce želeti da zajauče: 'Ne! Ne mog sina! Poštedite mi sina!' Verujem da je to što žene, ikz nekog izvora koji nam je neznan, crpu volju da pobede svoju najdublju prirodu razlog što se tolio divio svojim majkama i sestrama i suprugama. U ovome je verujem, suština ženske hrabrosti i zato ona, kao što si ti rekao, nadilazi mušku. -Dijanek" -Steven Pressfield
"Every morning you wake up and the dragon’s there and you’d have to slay that dragon anew every morning. The only difference is that after you’ve done it enough times you, you now are confident that it can be done, but it never goes away, And there’s no magic bullet." -Steven Pressfield
"Nothing else matters except sitting down every day and trying." -Steven Pressfield
"BEYOND RESISTANCE The Higher Realm The first duty is to sacrifice to the gods and pray them to grant you the thoughts, words, and deeds likely to render your command most pleasing to the gods and to bring yourself, your friends, and your city the fullest measure of affection and glory and advantage. –Xenophon, The Cavalry Commander" -Steven Pressfield
"— Juro, companheiros, [os persas] eram tão numerosos que ao lançarem os projéteis a massa de flechas bloqueava o sol!Os olhos do boateiro estavam inflamados de prazer. Virou-se para o meu senhor, como se para saborear a chama de pavor que sua narrativa inflamara até mesmo em um espartano. Para sua decepção, Dienekes olhava-o com um desprendimento indiferente, quase entediado.— Ótimo — disse ele. — Combateremos à sombra." -Steven Pressfield
"The artist is grounded in freedom. He is not afraid of it. He is lucky. He was born in the right place. He has a core of self- confidence, of hope for the future. He believes in progress and evolution. His faith is that humankind is advancing, however haltingly and imperfectly, toward a better world." -Steven Pressfield
"Resistance only obstructs movement from a lower sphere to a higher. It kicks in when we seek to pursue a calling in the arts. It won’t come in when you work with mother Teresa. It will give you a free pass. It is especially most powerful near the finish line." -Steven Pressfield
"Don't cheat the world of your contribution. Give it what you've got." ,Steven Pressfield
"All addictions share, among others, two primary qualities. 1. They embody repetition without progress. 2. They produce incapacity as a payoff." -Steven Pressfield
"The moment a person learns he's got terminal cancer, a profound shift takes place in his psyche. At one stroke in the doctor's office he becomes aware of what really matters to him. Things that sixty seconds earlier had seemed all- important suddenly appear meaningless, while people and concerns that he had till then dismissed at once take on supreme importance." -Steven Pressfield
"Resistance knows we’re about to beat it and it hits the panic button. It hits with everything it’s got." -Steven Pressfield
"It is one thing to study warand another to live the warrior's life." -Steven Pressfield
"Entonces vi que su heroísmo no era el de un Aquiles. No era un superhombre que chapoteaba invulnerable en la matanza, matando con una sola mano al enemigo por miríadas. No era más que un hombre que cumplía con su tarea. Una tarea cuya principal atribución era el autocontrol y la compostura, no para sí mismo sino para que los hombres que estaban a sus órdenes siguieran su ejemplo." -Steven Pressfield
"Exo tes thyras ouden. «Nada fuera de esta puerta»; que significaba que ninguna palabra pronunciada en aquel recinto podía repetirse fuera." -Steven Pressfield
"Often couples or close friends, even entire families, will enter into tacit compacts whereby each individual pledges (unconsciously) to remain mired in the same slough in which she and all her cronies have become so comfortable." -Steven Pressfield
"Por fortuna, Dios en su misericordia ha proporcionado un contrapeso a la depravación innata en nuestra especie. Este don, amigo mío, es la guerra." -Steven Pressfield
"evolution, the more Resistance we will feel toward pursuing it." -Steven Pressfield
"I have conquered the need to conquer the world" ,Steven Pressfield
"Otras ciudades producen monumentos y poesía, y Esparta produce hombres" -Steven Pressfield
"The professional loves her work. She is invested in it wholeheartedly. But she does not forget that the work is not her. Her artistic self contains many works and many performances. Already the next is percolating inside her. The next will be better, and the one after that better still. The" -Steven Pressfield
"Achilles is no ancestor, nine hundred years gone. He strides here, this instant, in my heart." -Steven Pressfield
"Procrastination is the most common manifestation of resistance." -Steven Pressfield
"She has proven she has guts. Does it matter that, alone at a traffic light, our passionate dreamer finds herself breaking down in tears? Does it make a difference that she’s terrified of the choice she has made, that she has to fight off nightly the overwhelming urge to pack up and go home? All that matters is that she has taken action. She is here. She has left there behind. This does not go unnoticed, by mortals or by the gods." -Steven Pressfield
"The virtues of resourcefulness, self-composure, patience, hardiness, not to mention a sense of humour, were prized as highly as those of bravery, aggressiveness, and raw martial rigour." -Steven Pressfield
"What are you, crazy, Steve? Do you imagine anybody is gonna be interested in these lame-ass stories from your life? They are so ordinary! You are so ordinary. Readers are going to laugh you off the page. Whatever credibility you’ve built up over the years will go straight into the toilet. Stop right now before you totally humiliate yourself!" -Steven Pressfield
"En un solo aspecto los dioses han permitido a los mortales sobrepasarles. El hombre puede dar lo que los dioses no pueden, todo lo que poseen: su vida." -Steven Pressfield
"The Band advances to the cadence of the flute, and has no call for retreat. Its code is Stand and Die." -Steven Pressfield
"Esto es lo que haréis, amigos. Olvidad el país. Olvidad al rey. Olvidad la esposa, los hijos y la libertad. Olvidad todos los conceptos, por nobles que sean, por los que imagináis que peleáis hoy aquí. Actuad sólo por esto: por el hombre que está junto a vosotros. Él lo es todo, y todo está contenido dentro de él." -Steven Pressfield
"The artist's journey comes after the hero's journey. Everything that has happened to us up to this point is rehearsal for us to act, now, as our true self and to find and speak in our true voice. The artist's journey is the process of self-discovery that follows. It will last as long as we're alive, and maybe longer." -Steven Pressfield
"My friend Tony Keppelman snapped me out of it by asking if I was gonna quit. Hell, no! 'Then be happy. You're where you wanted to be, aren't you? So you're taking a few blows. That's the price for being in the arena and not on the sidelines. Stop complaining and be grateful." -Steven Pressfield
"From what I’ve seen, the operations of war are constituted less of glorious attacks and valiant defences and more of an ongoing succession of mundane and often excruciating balls-ups." -Steven Pressfield
"If we show our poem to our friend and our friend says, 'It's wonderful, I love it,' that's not real-world feedback, that's our friend being nice to us. Nothing is as empowering as real- world validation, even if it's for failure." -Steven Pressfield
"In myth and legend, when the hero commits to an intention by taking bold action, he enacts a Cosmic Overthrow. He "crosses the threshold." -Steven Pressfield
"The following is from a letter to his brother George (who was quite a character in his own right) in 1817: I had not a dispute but a disquisition with Dilke, upon various subjects; several things dove-tailed in my mind, and at once it struck me what quality went to form a Man of Achievement, especially in Literature, and which Shakespeare possessed so enormously—I mean Negative Capability, that is, when a man is capable of being in uncertainties, mysteries, doubts, without any irritable reaching after fact and reason . . ." -Steven Pressfield
"¿Qué quedará de los espartanos? No monumentos de piedra o mármol, sino esto: lo que hoy hagamos aquí." -Steven Pressfield
"They peck a man’s asshole out," -Steven Pressfield
"the hero moves from the Ordinary World to the Extraordinary World. She has gone from the Known to the Unknown. Suddenly our hero sees herself differently. She can’t help it." -Steven Pressfield
"Put in slightly less deathless prose, the poet’s thought might go like this: "Hey, John! This is John speaking. Those doubts you’re experiencing about Endymion? I know you think you’re never going to finish such an epic. I know you’re afraid the work will be savaged in the Times. They’ll say you’re not fit to hold Percy Shelley’s quill pen or Lord Byron’s sheet of parchment. BS, baby! I’m here to tell you, your poem is great! Scholars will be poring over its stanzas for centuries. Lovers will be cadging verses and dispatching them to their beloveds. Buck up, buddy! The tunnel may seem dark right now, but keep plugging. Don’t lose faith. You will emerge from it—I promise—to the sunlit uplands of poetic glory and renown!" -Steven Pressfield
"If we were the last person on earth, would we still show up at the studio, the rehearsal hall, the laboratory?" -Steven Pressfield
"Creating soap opera in our lives is a symptom of Resistance. Why put in years of work designing a new software interface when you can get just as much attention by bringing home a boyfriend with a prison record?   Sometimes entire families participate unconsciously in a culture of self-dramatization. The kids fuel the tanks, the grown-ups arm the phasers, the whole starship lurches from one spine-tingling episode to another. And the crew knows how to keep it going. If the level of drama drops below a certain threshold, someone jumps in to amp it up. Dad gets drunk, Mom gets sick, Janie shows up for church with an Oakland Raiders tattoo. It’s more fun than a movie. And it works: Nobody gets a damn thing done." -Steven Pressfield
"Show me someone who claims he doesn't give a shit and I'll show you a born artist who's scared out of his wits to become that artist." -Steven Pressfield
"It is not an idle or airy-fairy proposition to declare that the universe responds to the hero or heroine who takes action and commits. It responds positively. It comes to the hero’s aid." -Steven Pressfield
"Resistance hates two qualities above all others: concentration and depth. Why? Because when we work with focus and we work deep, we succeed" -Steven Pressfield
"Let me say this about courage under fire. In my experience, valour in action counts for far less than simply performing one’s commonplace task without cocking it up. This is by no means as simple as it sounds." -Steven Pressfield
"The Sphere of Potentiality—i.e., the dimension above the Material Plane—recognizes the alteration in our hero. She has changed. She is not the same person she was, even ten seconds earlier. She has, by an act of will and love and daring, stepped out of the role of the passive and the self-paralyzed and into the role of the active protagonist, the hero. She has in fact become a hero, quaking knees notwithstanding. The universe comes to the hero’s aid." -Steven Pressfield
"I can say truthfully of every book I've written that, before I saw it as a subject, I had no idea I was even interested in it. In fact I wasn't interested in it. Or if I was, I dismissed that interest as purely idiosyncratic—a feeling that applied to me only but would never apply to anyone else. The books picked me. I didn't pick them." -Steven Pressfield
"The professional endures adversity. He lets the birdshit splash down on his slicker, remembering that it comes clean with a heavy-duty hosing. He himself, his creative center, cannot be buried, even beneath a mountain of guano. His core is bulletproof. Nothing can touch it unless he lets it." -Steven Pressfield
"Often, "reality" means nothing more than conventional reality. And conventional reality is almost always wrong. Ask Dick Rowe of Decca Records, who turned down the Beatles." -Steven Pressfield
"I’ve read a dozen different versions of Stanislavski's famous Three Questions, i.e. the queries an actor must ask him- or herself before playing any scene. Here's my version: Who am I? Why am I here? What do I want? The second two are pretty easy. It's the first that's the killer." -Steven Pressfield
"Procrastination is the most common manifestation of Resistance because it's the easiest to rationalize. We don't tell ourselves, 'I'm never going to write my symphony.' Instead we say, 'I am going to write my symphony; I'm just going to start tomorrow." -Steven Pressfield
"PICASSO HAD A POINT OF VIEW When Georges Braque and the early Cubists first painted portraits that had two eyes on one side of a woman's face, critics were outraged. Art lovers were appalled. Intellectuals were brawling with each other in bistros in Montmartre and Saint-Germain-des-Prés. But Braque knew. Picasso knew. Leger knew. They had a point of view. The Cubists could draw a representational face. But that wasn't what they wanted. That wasn't their point of view. Caesar had a point of view. Gandhi had a point of view. Martin Luther King, Jr. had a point of view. The artist can answer any question (including those posed by herself) when she has a point of view." -Steven Pressfield
"The professional respects his craft. He does not consider himself superior to it. He recognizes the contributions of those who have gone before him. He apprentices himself to them. The professional dedicates himself to mastering technique not because he believes technique is a substitute for inspiration but because he wants to be in possession of the full arsenal of skills when inspiration does come." -Steven Pressfield
"it." -Steven Pressfield
"Tell me who you are, Junah. Who, in your deepest parts, when all that is unauthentic has been stripped away. Are you your name, Rannulph Junah? Will that hit this shot for you? Are you your illustrious forebears? Will they hit it? 'Are you your roles, Junah? Scion, soldier, Southerner? Husband, father, lover? Slayer of the foe in battle, comforter of the friend at home? Are you your virtues, Junah, or your sins? Your deeds, your feats? Are you your dreams or your nightmares? Tell me Junah. Can you hit the ball with any of these?" -Steven Pressfield
"Strife is life’s oldest and most holy fundament." -Steven Pressfield
"The professional cannot allow the actions of others to define his reality. Tomorrow morning the critic will be gone, but the writer will still be there facing the blank page. Nothing matters but that he keep working. Short of a family crisis or the outbreak of World War III, the professional shows up, ready to serve the gods." -Steven Pressfield
"You have never tasted freedom, friend," Dienekes spoke, "or you would know it is purchased not with gold, but steel."Pressfield, Steven (2007-01-30). Gates of Fire (p. 47). Random House Publishing Group. Kindle Edition." ,Steven Pressfield
"But another lesson Watashi taught has stuck with me to this day. Watashi always pronounced the word "feel" as if it had quotation marks around it. In other words, he scorned the word absolutely. In Watashi’s lexicon, feel and feelings had no meaning in war. They had no meaning in competition. They had no meaning in life." -Steven Pressfield
"Never forget: This very moment, we can change our lives. There never was a moment, and never will be, when we are without the power to alter our destiny. This second, we can turn the tables on Resistance. This second, we can sit down and do our work." -Steven Pressfield
"Evolution has programmed us to feel rejection in our guts. This is how the tribe enforced obedience, by wielding the threat of expulsion. Fear of rejection isn't just psychological; it's biological. It's in our cells." -Steven Pressfield
"From the epiphanal moment at the end of her hero's journey, the artist's life is about the works she will produce. These taken in sum will comprise her body of work. They're her 'oeuvre.' They're also her destiny. If she does it right, they will constitute upon completion a pretty fair expression of why she was put on Earth. They'll define who she is. They will be her 'gift for the people." -Steven Pressfield
"Once you have given up the ghost [wrote Henry Miller], everything follows with dead certainty, even in the midst of chaos. The ghost that we give up is the ego. The illusion of control. The 'everything' that follows is our artist's power—our subject, our voice, our point of view, our medium of expression, and our style." -Steven Pressfield
"This is the other secret that real artists know and wannabe writers don't. When we sit down each day and do our work, power concentrates around us. The Muse takes note of our dedication. She approves. We have earned favor in her sight. When we sit down and work, we become like a magnetized rod that attracts iron filings. Ideas come. Insights accrete." -Steven Pressfield
"The ordeal of command consists in this: that one makes decisions of fatal consequence based on ludicrously inadequate intelligence." -Steven Pressfield
"How do I apply Watashi’s wisdom today? If I don’t "feel" like getting out of bed in the morning, I hear and see a Little Watashi in my mind’s eye. I dismiss that "feeling" and get up. I dismiss positive feelings too, at least as they affect work. If I’m self-satisfied or in soaring good spirits and want to celebrate or take the day off, I place those feelings as well in quotation marks. I have internalized Watashi and even, in my imagination, his pool cue." -Steven Pressfield
"A commander’s role is to model arete, excellence, before his men. One need not thrash them to greatness; only hold it out before them. They will be compelled by their own nature to emulate it." -Steven Pressfield
"  If you find yourself criticizing other people, you’re probably doing it out of Resistance. When we see others beginning to live their authentic selves, it drives us crazy if we have not lived out our own.   Individuals who are realized in their own lives almost never criticize others. If they speak at all, it is to offer encouragement. Watch yourself. Of all the manifestations of Resistance, most only harm ourselves. Criticism and cruelty harm others as well." -Steven Pressfield
"The professional blows critics off. He doesn't even hear them. Critics, he reminds himself, are the unwitting mouthpieces of Resistance and as such can be truly cunning and pernicious. They can articulate in their reviews the same toxic venom that Resistance itself concocts inside our heads. That is their real evil. Not that we believe them, but that we believe the Resistance in our own minds, for which critics serve as unconscious spokespersons." -Steven Pressfield
"The ancient Hermetists had a principle, the First Principle they called it, that the universe itself was mental. They taught that All That Was existed purely as a thought in the Mind of God, or the All as they called it. Even we human beings with all our complexities had no substantial existence as matter, but were merely thoughts in the mind of our Creator, much like Micawber arising with his fellows from the mind of Dickens. The Hermetists claimed you could change the universe, or your own at any rate, by transmuting it mentally." -Steven Pressfield
"Let me start this chapter with what may seem like an overstatement: For writers and artists, the ability to self-reinforce is more important than talent. What exactly is reinforcement? It’s when your coach or mentor tugs you aside and tells you how well you are doing, how proud of you they are, and how certain they are that ultimate success will be yours if you just stay who you are and keep doing what you’re doing. That’s reinforcement. Can you tell yourself that? Without a coach? Without a mentor? Can you be your own coach and mentor? That’s self-reinforcement." -Steven Pressfield
"The enemy is a very good teacher." -Steven Pressfield
"I sometimes thought to myself, 'Steve, you've got it lucky now, no distractions, you can focus full-time. What are you gonna do when life gets complicated again?" -Steven Pressfield
"That year made me a pro. It gave me, for the first time in my life, an uninterrupted stretch of month after month that was mine alone, that nobody knew about but me, when I was truly productive, truly facing my demons, and truly working my shit. That year has stuck with me." -Steven Pressfield
"Angels are agents of evolution." -Steven Pressfield
"BOOK TWO COMBATING RESISTANCE" -Steven Pressfield
"What is it about featureless wastes that appeals so powerfully to the Anglo-Saxon soul?" -Steven Pressfield
"Instead we are tapped into an unquenchable, undepletable, inexhaustible source of wisdom, consciousness, companionship." -Steven Pressfield
"Why have I stressed professionalism so heavily in the preceding chapters? Because the most important thing about art is to work. Nothing else matters except sitting down every day and trying.   Why is this so important?   Because when we sit down day after day and keep grinding, something mysterious starts to happen. A process is set into motion by which, inevitably and infallibly, heaven comes to our aid. Unseen forces enlist in our cause; serendipity reinforces our purpose." -Steven Pressfield
"EACH INCREMENT OF THE ARTIST'S JOURNEY IS A HERO'S JOURNEY We experience our life as dull and ordinary. But beneath the surface, something powerful and transformative is brewing. Suddenly the light bulb goes off. We've got a new idea! An idea for a novel, a movie, a startup . . . Except immediately we perceive the downside. We become daunted. Our idea is too risky, we fear. We're afraid we can't pull it off. We hesitate, until . . . We're having coffee with a friend. We tell her our idea. 'I love it,' she says. 'You've gotta do it.' Fortified, we rally. We commit. We begin. This is the pattern for the genesis of any creative work. It's also, in Joseph Campbell terms, 'the Ordinary World,' 'The Call,' 'Refusal of the Call,' 'Meeting with the Mentor,' and 'Crossing the Threshold.' In other words, the first five stages of the hero's journey. Keep going. As you progress on your project, you'll hit every other Campbellian beat, right down to the finish and release/publication, i.e., 'The Return,' bearing a 'Gift for the People.' This pattern will hold true for the rest of your life, through every novel, movie, dance, drama, work of architecture, etc. you produce. Every work is its own hero's journey." -Steven Pressfield
"What appeared as unendurable hardship to soldiers of other nationalities produced a species of exhilaration in our lads, raised on a diet of Kipling and institutional porridge. Some" -Steven Pressfield
"Creating soap opera in our lives is a symptom of Resistance." -Steven Pressfield
"is" -Steven Pressfield
"The professional gives an ear to criticism, seeking to learn and grow. But she never forgets that Resistance is using criticism against her on a far more diabolical level." -Steven Pressfield
"New York City is too big to function as a hierarchy. So is IBM. So is Michigan State. The individual in multitudes this vast feels overwhelmed, anonymous. He is submerged in the mass. He’s lost." -Steven Pressfield
"My friend Tony Keppelman snapped me out of it by asking if I was gonna quit. Hell, no! 'Then be happy. You're where you wanted to be, aren't you? So you're taking a few blows. That's the price for being in the arena and not on the sidelines. Stop complaining and be grateful.' That was when I realized I had become a pro. I had not yet had a success. But I had had a real failure. FOR LOVE OF THE GAME" -Steven Pressfield
"The third type of possession and madness is possession by the Muses. When this seizes upon a gentle and virgin soul it rouses it to inspired expression in lyric and other sorts of poetry, and glorifies countless deeds of the heroes of old for the instruction of posterity. But if a man comes to the door of poetry untouched by the madness of the Muses, believing that technique alone will make him a good poet, he and his sane compositions never reach perfection, but are utterly eclipsed by the performances of the inspired madman.  " -Steven Pressfield
"Depression and anxiety may be real. But they can also be Resistance." -Steven Pressfield
"performances." -Steven Pressfield
"But behind every law of nature stands an equal and opposite law. The universe is also actively benevolent. You should be feeling this now. You should be feeling a tailwind. The opposite of Resistance is Assistance." -Steven Pressfield
"The artist and the fundamentalist both confront the same issue, the mystery of their existence as individuals. Each asks the same questions: Who am I? Why am I here? What is the meaning of my life?" -Steven Pressfield
"The professional cannot let himself take humiliation personally. Humiliation, like rejection and criticism, is the external reflection of internal Resistance." -Steven Pressfield
"In that moment the phalanx forms a unity so dense and all-divining that it performs not merely at the level of a machine or engine of war but, surpassing that, to the state of a single organism, a beast of one blood and heart. The foemen’s arrows rained upon the Spartan line. From where I found myself, just behind the rear-rankers, I could see the warriors’ feet, at first churning in disarray for purchase on the blood and gore-beslimed earth, now settle into a unison, a grinding relentless cadence." -Steven Pressfield
"When we drug ourselves to blot out our soul's call, we are being good Americans and exemplary consumers. We're doing exactly what TV commercials and pop materialist culture have been brainwashing us to do from birth. Instead of applying self-knowledge, self-discipline, delayed gratification and hard work, we simply consume a product." -Steven Pressfield
"faces at a dead run. Yet never have my heart and" -Steven Pressfield
"Doctors estimate that seventy to eighty percent of their business is non-health-related. People aren't sick, they're self- dramatizing. Sometimes the hardest part of a medical job is keeping a straight face. As Jerry Seinfeld observed of his twenty years of dating: 'That's a lot of acting fascinated." -Steven Pressfield
"A good tutor can make one’s college experience a revolutionary passage, to life as well as to literature; a bad one can make it misery." -Steven Pressfield
"Procrastination is the most common manifestation of Resistance because it’s the easiest to rationalize. We don’t tell ourselves, "I’m never going to write my symphony." Instead we say, "I am going to write my symphony; I’m just going to start tomorrow." -Steven Pressfield
"Resistance feeds on fear. We experience Resistance as fear. But fear of what?   Fear of the consequences of following our heart. Fear of bankruptcy, fear of poverty, fear of insolvency. Fear of groveling when we try to make it on our own, and of groveling when we give up and come crawling back to where we started. Fear of being selfish, of being rotten wives or disloyal husbands; fear of failing to support our families, of sacrificing their dreams for ours. Fear of betraying our race, our ’hood, our homies. Fear of failure. Fear of being ridiculous. Fear of throwing away the education, the training, the preparation that those we love have sacrificed so much for, that we ourselves have worked our butts off for. Fear of launching into the void, of hurtling too far out there; fear of passing some point of no return, beyond which we cannot recant, cannot reverse, cannot rescind, but must live with this cocked-up choice for the rest of our lives. Fear of madness. Fear of insanity. Fear of death.   These are serious fears. But they’re not the real fear. Not the Master Fear, the Mother of all Fears that’s so close to us that even when we verbalize it we don’t believe it.   Fear That We Will Succeed.   That we can access the powers we secretly know we possess.   That we can become the person we sense in our hearts we truly are.   This is the most terrifying prospect a human being can face, because it ejects him at one go (he imagines) from all the tribal inclusions his psyche is wired for and has been for fifty million years.   We fear discovering that we are more than we think we are. More than our parents/children/teachers think we are. We fear that we actually possess the talent that our still, small voice tells us. That we actually have the guts, the perseverance, the capacity. We fear that we truly can steer our ship, plant our flag, reach our Promised Land. We fear this because, if it’s true, then we become estranged from all we know. We pass through a membrane. We become monsters and monstrous.   We know that if we embrace our ideals, we must prove worthy of them. And that scares the hell out of us. What will become of us? We will lose our friends and family, who will no longer recognize us. We will wind up alone, in the cold void of starry space, with nothing and no one to hold on to.   Of course this is exactly what happens. But here’s the trick. We wind up in space, but not alone. Instead we are tapped into an unquenchable, undepletable, inexhaustible source of wisdom, consciousness, companionship. Yeah, we lose friends. But we find friends too, in places we never thought to look. And they’re better friends, truer friends. And we’re better and truer to them.   Do you believe me?" -Steven Pressfield
"Do I really believe that my work is crucial to the planet's survival? Of course not. But it's as important to me as catching that mouse is to the hawk circling outside my window. He's hungry. He needs a kill. So do I. I'm" -Steven Pressfield
"To labor in the arts for any reason other than love is prostitution. Recall the fate of Odysseus' men who slew the cattle of the sun. Their" -Steven Pressfield
"Egyptians cannot believe Israelis are all" -Steven Pressfield
"He is, we are told, a warrior from a bygone era, an old-fashioned knight for whom the virtues of chivalry and respect for the foe are indivisible from the passion for victory. In other words," says Kennedy Shaw, "you can’t even hate the bastard!" -Steven Pressfield
"It's not the writing part that's hard. What's hard is sitting down to write. What keeps us from sitting down is Resistance." -Steven Pressfield
"He will be dining for the duration on a diet of isolation, rejection, self-doubt, despair, ridicule, contempt, and humiliation." -Steven Pressfield
"The writer is an infantryman. He knows that progress is measured in yards of dirt extracted from the enemy one day, one hour, one minute at a time and paid for in blood. The artist wears combat boots. He looks in the mirror and sees GI Joe. Remember, the Muse favors working stiffs. She hates prima donnas. To the gods the supreme sin is not rape or murder, but pride. To think of yourself as a mercenary, a gun for hire, implants the proper humility. It purges pride and preciousness." -Steven Pressfield
"Tutors are usually shaggy, ill-groomed junior dons who smoke and drink to excess and never leave their rooms except for illicit sexual liaisons or to replenish their stocks of tobacco and spirits. A" -Steven Pressfield
"she doesn't wait for inspiration, she acts in anticipation of its apparition." -Steven Pressfield
"The linebacker and the Army Ranger go into action as part of a team. But the artist and the entrepreneur enter combat alone. I take my hat off to every man or woman who does this." -Steven Pressfield
"A professional schools herself to stand apart from her performance, even as she gives herself to it heart and soul. The Bhagavad-Gita tells us we have a right only to our labor, not to the fruits of our labor. All the warrior can give is his life; all the athlete can do is leave everything on the field." -Steven Pressfield
"Turning pro is free, but it demands sacrifice. The passage is often accompanied by an interior odyssey. Whose trials are survived only tat great costs, emotionally, psychologically and spiritually." -Steven Pressfield
"We don't tell ourselves, 'I'm never going to write my symphony.' Instead we say, 'I am going to write my symphony; I'm just going to start tomorrow." -Steven Pressfield
"Our deepest fear is not that we are inadequate. Our deepest fear is that we are powerful beyond measure. It is our light, not our darkness, that most frightens us. We ask ourselves, Who am I to be brilliant, gorgeous, talented, fabulous? Actually, who are you not to be? You are a child of God. Your playing small does not serve the world. There is nothing enlightened about shrinking so that other people won’t feel insecure around you. We are all meant to shine, as children do. We were born to make manifest the glory of God that is within us. It’s not just in some of us; it’s in everyone." -Steven Pressfield
"If you cave in today you’re 2x as likely to cave tomorrow. If you so much say hello, you’re finished. Don’t even pick up the phone." -Steven Pressfield
"The ultimate source of creativity, he argues, is divine." -Steven Pressfield
"The thesis of this book is that what ails you and me has nothing to do with being sick or being wrong. What ails us is that we are living our lives as amateurs. The solution, this book suggests, is that we turn pro. Turning pro is free, but it's not easy. You don't need to take a course or buy a product. All you have to do is change your mind. Turning pro is free, but it's not without cost. When we turn pro, we give up a life with which we may have become extremely comfortable. We give up a self that we have come to identify with and to call our own. We may have to give up friends, lovers, even spouses." -Steven Pressfield
"The field is leveled only in heaven." -Steven Pressfield
"A real writer (or artist or entrepreneur) has something to give. She has lived enough and suffered enough and thought deeply enough about her experience to be able to process it into something that is of value to others, even if only as entertainment." -Steven Pressfield
"look different" -Steven Pressfield
"Sometimes Resistance takes the form of sex, or an obsessive preoccupation with sex. Why sex? Because sex provides immediate and powerful gratification. When someone sleeps with us, we feel validated and approved of, even loved. Resistance gets a big kick out of that. It knows it has distracted us with a cheap, easy fix and kept us from doing our work. Of course not all sex is a manifestation of Resistance. In my experience, you can tell by the measure of hollowness you feel afterward. The more empty you feel, the more certain you can be that your true motivation was not love or even lust but Resistance. It goes without saying that this principle applies to drugs, shopping, masturbation, TV, gossip, alcohol, and the consumption of all products containing fat, sugar, salt, or chocolate." -Steven Pressfield
"What I call Professionalism someone else might call the Artist’s Code or the Warrior’s Way. It’s an attitude of egolessness and service. The Knights of the Round Table were chaste and self-effacing. Yet they dueled dragons." -Steven Pressfield
"All I know how to do is work." -Steven Pressfield
"How did you keep going all those years without any success?" I couldn’t have answered at the time, except to say that I had no choice. Any time I tried to take the intelligent course, i.e., get a real job, I became so depressed I couldn’t stand it." -Steven Pressfield
"Do research early or late. Don’t stop working. Never do research in prime working time." -Steven Pressfield
"Our guns do not strip the foe of life with surgical strokes. They take them in a holocaust." -Steven Pressfield
"The humanist believes that humankind, as individuals, is called upon to co-create the world with God. This is why he values human life so highly. In his view, things do progress, life does evolve; each individual has value, at least potentially, in advancing this cause." -Steven Pressfield
"If we can’t finish, all our work is for nothing." -Steven Pressfield
"The artist committing himself to his calling has volunteered for hell, whether he knows it or not." -Steven Pressfield
"This is how command passes from a weak officer to a stronger. No rank alters; no papers are filed. Without a word, every man understands." -Steven Pressfield
"The professional has learned that success, like happiness, comes as a by-product of work. The" -Steven Pressfield
"I experienced it as a compulsion to self-destruct. I could not finish what I started. The closer I got, the more different ways I’d find to screw it up." -Steven Pressfield
"Resistance has no conscience. It will pledge anything to get a deal, then double-cross you as soon as your back is turned. If you take Resistance at its word, you deserve everything you get. Resistance is always lying and always full of shit." -Steven Pressfield
"victim act is a form of passive aggression. It seeks to achieve gratification not by honest work or a contribution made out of one's experience or insight or love, but by the manipulation of others through" -Steven Pressfield
"When fundamentalism wins, the world enters a dark age." -Steven Pressfield
"We have the right to our labor but not to the fruit of our labor." -Steven Pressfield
"silent (and not-so-silent) threat." -Steven Pressfield
"the Invocation of the Muse from Homer’s Odyssey, the T. E. Lawrence translation." -Steven Pressfield
"Resistance also told me I shouldn't seek to instruct, or put myself forward as a purveyor of wisdom; that this was vain, egotistical, possibly even corrupt, and that it would work harm to me in the end. That scared me. It made a lot of sense." -Steven Pressfield
"Act, Junah, but act without attachment, as the earth does. As I do. The rain falls, with no thought of watering the land. The clouds roll, not seeking to bring shade. They simply do. And we must too." -Steven Pressfield
"I learned this from Robert McKee. A hack, he says, is a writer who second-guesses his audience. When the hack sits down to work, he doesn't ask himself what's in his own heart. He asks what the market is looking for.The hack condescends to his audience. He thinks he's superior to them. The truth is, he's scared to death of them or, more accurately, scared of being authentic in front of them, scared of writing what he really feels or believes, what he himself thinks is interesting. He's afraid it won't sell. So he tries to anticipate what the market (a telling word) wants, then gives it to them.In other words, the hack writes hierarchically. He writes what he imagines will play well in the eyes of others. He does not ask himself, What do I myself want to write? What do I think is important? Instead he asks, What's hot, what can I make a deal for?The hack is like the politician who consults the polls before he takes a position. He's a demagogue. He panders." -Steven Pressfield
"Instead let's ask ourselves like that new mother: What do I feel growing inside me? Let me bring that forth, if I can, for its own sake and not for what it can do for me or how it can advance my standing." -Steven Pressfield
"Turning pro is like kicking a drug habit or stopping drinking. It’s a decision, a decision to which we must re-commit every day. Each day, the professional understands, he will wake up facing the same demons, the same Resistance, the same self-sabotage…The difference is that now he will not yield to those temptations. He will have mastered them, and he will continue to master them." -Steven Pressfield
"Remember, as artists we don't know diddly. We're winging it every day. For us to try to second-guess our Muse the way a hack second-guesses his audience is condescension to heaven. It's blasphemy and sacrilege." -Steven Pressfield
"The professional learns to recognize envy-driven criticism and to take it for what it is: the supreme compliment." -Steven Pressfield
"When we commit fully to our calling, we acknowledge the forces of inspiration that we hope to summon to our aid." -Steven Pressfield
"If you’re feeling massive Resistance, the good news is, it means there’s tremendous love there too. If you didn’t love the project that is terrifying you, you wouldn’t feel anything. The opposite of love isn’t hate; it’s indifference." -Steven Pressfield
"The soap and sponge were doing their thing." -Steven Pressfield
"Defeating Resistance is like giving birth. It seems absolutely impossible until you remember that women have been pulling it off successfully, with support and without, for fifty million years." -Steven Pressfield
"We pass through a membrane when we turn pro. It hurts. It’s messy and it’s scary. We tread in blood when we turn pro. Turning pro is not for everyone. We have to be a little crazy to do it, or even to want to. In many ways the passage chooses us. We don’t choose it. We simply have no alternative. What we get when we turn pro, is we find our power. Our will. We become who we always were. Do you remember where you were on during 9/11? You’ll remember where you were, or, when you turned pro." -Steven Pressfield
"There is no other time. Today is the Superbowl. Today is the day I give birth. Today is the day I die." -Steven Pressfield
"Ignorance and arrogance are the artist and entrepreneur’s indispensable allies. She must be clueless enough to have no idea how difficult her enterprise is going to be—and cocky enough to believe she can pull it off anyway. How do we achieve this state of mind? By staying stupid. By not allowing ourselves to think. A child has no trouble believing the unbelievable, nor does the genius or the madman. It’s only you and I, with our big brains and our tiny hearts, who doubt and overthink and hesitate. Don’t think. Act. We can always revise and revisit once we’ve acted. But we can accomplish nothing until we act." -Steven Pressfield
"Know that all that is," Bagger Vance’s voice came again as if in a dream, "flows from the union of the Field and the Knower." -Steven Pressfield
"Work—day-in, day-out exertion and concentration—produces progress and order. That’s a law of the universe." -Steven Pressfield
"I have learned a deep respect for one of Goethe’s couplets: "Whatever you can do, or dream you can, begin it. Boldness has genius, magic, and power in it. Begin it now." -Steven Pressfield
"The professional shuts up. She doesn't talk about it. She does her work." -Steven Pressfield
"Boldness has genius, magic, and power in it. Begin it now." -Steven Pressfield
"Do the work." -Steven Pressfield
"The Athens I love is not the one which is wronging me now, but that one in which I used to have secure enjoyment of my rights as a citizen. That country that I am attacking does not seem to be mine any longer; it is rather that I am trying to recover a country that has ceased to be mine. And the man who really loves his country is not the one who refuses to attack it when he has been unjustly driven from it, but the man whose desire for it is so strong that he will shrink from nothing in his efforts to get back there again." -Steven Pressfield
"In my little house I have my worktable, I have my Smith-Corona, my mattress, my box springs, my bed frame. I have a couch I found on the street in Pacific Grove. I have kitchen utensils—a pot, a teakettle, a frying pan. I have one spoon and one fork. I have a knife. I have no TV, no radio, no stereo. This is before computers, so no email, no Instagram, no social media. I have no correspondents. I write to nobody—not friends, not family. Nobody. And nobody writes to me. My day goes like this. I wake before dawn, eat a breakfast for a lumberjack. Four eggs, raw milk, potatoes, tomatoes. Bacon or sausage are too weak for me. Liver. A big slab for power. I walk for an hour. The sun is coming up now." -Steven Pressfield
"The field is level, the professional understands, only in heaven." -Steven Pressfield
"Attention Deficit Disorder, Seasonal Affect Disorder, Social Anxiety Disorder. These aren't diseases, they're marketing ploys." -Steven Pressfield
"Paul lectures me on self-discipline. Nothing else counts but getting your pages every day. Be ruthless with yourself. This is life or death. Don’t kid yourself that it’s anything else. Paul doesn’t admire writers personally. "The ones I’ve known are mostly self-involved pricks and egomaniacs. I don’t condemn them. It’s the agony of the process. I wouldn’t want a son or daughter of mine to write. I would try to talk you out of it too, Steve, but I can see there’s no chance of that." -Steven Pressfield
"The year after Thermopylae, the Greek fleet and army threw back the Persian multitudes at Salamis and Plataea. The West survived then, in no small measure because of her women." -Steven Pressfield
"He who whets his steel, whets his courage." ,Steven Pressfield
"This doesn't mean that the professional doesn't throw down a 360 tomahawk jam from time to time, just to let the boys know he's still in business." -Steven Pressfield
"I don’t know what you’re writing, Steve. I don’t want to know. I’ll never read it. I’ll never judge it. All I ask of it, and of you, is that it come from that sacred space inside you and that it stay true, as you write it, to the ideals of that hallowed precinct." -Steven Pressfield
"Creative work is not a selfish act or a bid for attention on the part of the actor. It’s a gift to the world and every being in it. Don’t cheat us of your contribution. Give us what you’ve got." -Steven Pressfield
"The lioness hunts. The alpha female defends the wolf pack. The Warrior Ethos is not, at bottom, a manifestation only of male aggression or of the masculine will to dominance. Its foundation is society-wide. It rests on the will and resolve of mothers and wives and daughters—and, in no few instances, of female warriors as well—to defend their children, their home soil and the values of their culture." -Steven Pressfield
"If we were born to paint, it's our job to become a painter." -Steven Pressfield
"Resistance Is Infallible Like a magnetized needle floating on a surface of oil, Resistance will unfailingly point to true North—meaning that calling or action it most wants to stop us from doing. We can use this. We can use it as a compass. We can navigate by Resistance, letting it guide us to that calling or purpose that we must follow before all others. Rule of thumb: The more important a call or action is to our soul’s evolution, the more Resistance we will feel toward pursuing it." -Steven Pressfield
"It seems counterintuitive, but it's true: in order to achieve 'flow,' magic, 'the zone,' we start by being common and ordinary and workmanlike. We set our palms against the stones in the garden wall and search, search, search until at last, in the instant when we're ready to give up, our fingers fasten upon the secret door. Like a child entering a meadow, we step over the threshold, forgetting everything except the butterfly that flits across our vision." -Steven Pressfield
"Enough for now about the antagonists arrayed against us. Let’s consider the champions on our side: Stupidity Stubbornness Blind faith Passion Assistance (the opposite of Resistance) Friends and family" -Steven Pressfield
"The highest treason a crab can commit is to make a leap for the rim of the bucket. The" -Steven Pressfield
"Now eat a good breakfast, men. For we’ll all be sharing dinner in hell." -Steven Pressfield
"I write all day. I have no idea what I’m doing. I have never heard of narrative structure or theme or concept or act 1, act 2, act 3. I work entirely on instinct. I’m writing, as I said, about Burton Lines, about the trucking company. I’m writing about myself." -Steven Pressfield
"The Muse honors the working stiff." ,Steven Pressfield
"plunge at once into matters as a Greek would, but offered first prayers for the free people’s well-being." -Steven Pressfield
"Remember, the Muse favors working stiffs." -Steven Pressfield
"And I read. I write all day and read all night." -Steven Pressfield
"The writer is an infantryman. He knows that progress is measured in yards of dirt extracted from the enemy one day, one hour, one minute at a time and paid for in blood." -Steven Pressfield
"RESISTANCE AND SELF-MEDICATION Do you regularly ingest any substance, controlled or otherwise, whose aim is the alleviation of depression, anxiety, etc.? I offer the following experience: I once worked as a writer for a big New York ad agency. Our boss used to tell us: Invent a disease. Come up with the disease, he said, and we can sell the cure. Attention Deficit Disorder, Seasonal Affect Disorder, Social Anxiety Disorder. These aren't diseases, they're marketing ploys. Doctors didn't discover them, copywriters did. Marketing departments did. Drug companies did. Depression and anxiety may be real. But they can also be Resistance. When we drug ourselves to blot out our soul's call, we are being good Americans and exemplary consumers. We're doing exactly what TV commercials and pop materialist culture have been brainwashing us to do from birth. Instead of applying self-knowledge, self-discipline, delayed gratification and hard work, we simply consume a product. Many pedestrians have been maimed or killed at the intersection of Resistance and Commerce." -Steven Pressfield
"I read War and Peace, I read Madame Bovary, I read Fathers and Sons, The Red and the Black, Crime and Punishment, The Brothers Karamazov. I read Hunger, Anna Karenina, Don Quixote. I read Tropic of Cancer and Tropic of Capricorn, Sexus, Nexus, Plexus, Quiet Days in Clichy. I read Big Sur and the Oranges of Hieronymus Bosch. My friend Paul is a character in this one." -Steven Pressfield
"I read everything you’re supposed to read in high school and college but never do, or if you do, you’re so psyched to read to the test that you don’t learn a damn thing. Am I learning anything now? Fuck no. The books pass through my consciousness like sunlight through glass. I don’t care. They’re in my cells now. I love them. Their impress has etched itself in some occult recess of my heart." -Steven Pressfield
"When one of tal Kyrte misses steppe and sky, she longs not just for their beauty but also their cruelty. For among the free people the foreawareness of one’s death, and heaven’s indifference to it, is the keenest and most brilliant pleasure, rendering all precious. This is the supreme mystery, the fact of existence itself, before which mortals may only stand in silence." -Steven Pressfield
"Nothing else matters except sitting down every day and trying…Because when we sit down day after day and keep grinding, something mysterious starts to happen… we become like a magnetized rod that attracts iron filings. Ideas come. insights accrete." -Steven Pressfield
"I wish every aspiring writer or artist could have a year or two years like this—a season when you have no responsibilities except to your own Muse and your own daimon, a run of months when you’re invisible to everybody but yourself, when you don’t give a shit about anything except the challenge before you, when you could drop dead on the street and no one would stop except to step over your cold corpse, and you don’t care." -Steven Pressfield
"Forget all else, Junah, but remember this: You are never alone. You have your caddie. You have me. "More devoted than a mother, more faithful than a lover, I stand by your side always. I will never abandon you. No sin, no lapse, no crime however heinous can make me desert you, nor yield up to you any less than my ultimate fidelity and love. "Who walks his path beside me Feels my hand upon him always. No effort he makes is wasted, Nor unseen, unguided by me. "Therefore, Junah, rest in me. Enter the Field like a warrior. Purged of ego, firm in discipline, seeking no reward save the stroke itself. Give the shot to me. I am your Self, the Ground of your being, your Authentic Swing." -Steven Pressfield
"The artist committing himself to his calling has volunteered for hell, whether he knows it or not. He will be dining for the duration on a diet of isolation, rejection, self-doubt, despair, ridicule, contempt, and humiliation. The artist must be like that Marine." -Steven Pressfield
"​"If you find yourself criticizing other people, you’re probably doing it out of Resistance. When we see others beginning to live their authentic selves, it drives us crazy if we have not lived out our own. Individuals who are realized in their own lives almost never criticize others. If they speak at all, it is to offer encouragement. Watch yourself. Of all the manifestations of Resistance, most only harm ourselves. Criticism and cruelty harm others as well." -Steven Pressfield
"When you’re alone with your solitary obsession, each day builds upon the one before. Energy concentrates. Your passion and intensity create a planet all your own, like the one the Little Prince lived on in Saint-Exupery’s book. This planet possesses its own gravitational field, and that field draws unto itself like-minded particles from space, from the aether, from the Big Bang. I mean ideas. Ideas for scenes, for dialogue, for characters, for conflicts. This field draws phrases you have never spoken. It attracts words you never knew you knew." -Steven Pressfield
"I don’t know what your story is, son, and I don’t wanna know. I can see you’re working something out in your life. I can see you’re trying your best. I can cut you slack. I’m trying to. But there’s one thing you have to understand." -Steven Pressfield
"The amateur prizes shallowness and shuns depth. The culture of Twitter and Facebook is paradise for the amateur." -Steven Pressfield
"It may help to think of it this way. If you were meant to cure cancer or write a symphony or crack cold fusion and you don't do it, you not only hurt yourself, even destroy yourself. You hurt your children. You hurt me. You hurt the planet. You shame the angels who watch over you and you spite the Almighty, who created you and only you with your unique gifts, for the sole purpose of nudging the human race one millimeter farther along its path back to God." -Steven Pressfield
"RESISTANCE IS INVISIBLE Resistance cannot be seen, touched, heard, or smelled. But it can be felt. We experience it as an energy field radiating from a work-in-potential. It's a repelling force. It's negative. Its aim is to shove us away, distract us, prevent us from doing our work." -Steven Pressfield
"The Greeks’ sculpture and athletics celebrated the human form, their literature and music human passion, their discourse and philosophy human reason. In" -Steven Pressfield
"When inspiration touches talent, she gives birth to truth and beauty. And when Steven Pressfield was writing The War of Art, she had her hands all over him." -Steven Pressfield
"The danger is greatest when the finish line is in sight. At this point, Resistance knows we’re about to beat it. It hits the panic button. It marshals one last assault and slams us with everything it’s got." -Steven Pressfield
"Marty has one other mantra: "Talent is bullshit." "I’ve seen a million writers with talent. It means nothing. You need guts, you need stick-to-it-iveness. It’s work, you gotta work. That’s why you’re gonna make it, son. You work. No one can take that away from you. "And I’ll tell you something else," Marty says. "Appreciate these days. These days when you’re broke and struggling, they’re the best days of your life. You’re gonna break through, my boy. And when you do, you’ll look back on this time and think this is when I was really an artist, when everything was pure and I had nothing but the dream and the work. Enjoy it now. Pay attention. These are the good days. Be grateful for them." -Steven Pressfield
"RESISTANCE IS INTERNAL Resistance seems to come from outside ourselves. We locate it in spouses, jobs, bosses, kids. 'Peripheral opponents,' as Pat Riley used to say when he coached the Los Angeles Lakers. Resistance is not a peripheral opponent. Resistance arises from within. It is self-generated and self-perpetuated. Resistance is the enemy within." -Steven Pressfield
"In fact, we are servants of the Mystery. We were put here on earth to act as agents of the Infinite, to bring into existence that which is not yet, but which will be, through us." -Steven Pressfield
"RESISTANCE IS INSIDIOUS Resistance will tell you anything to keep you from doing your work. It will perjure, fabricate, falsify; seduce, bully, cajole. Resistance is protean. It will assume any form, if that's what it takes to deceive you. It will reason with you like a lawyer or jam a nine-millimeter in your face like a stickup man. Resistance has no conscience. It will pledge anything to get a deal, then double-cross you as soon as your back is turned. If you take Resistance at its word, you deserve everything you get. Resistance is always lying and always full of shit." -Steven Pressfield
"RESISTANCE IS IMPLACABLE Resistance is like the Alien or the Terminator or the shark in Jaws. It cannot be reasoned with. It understands nothing but power. It is an engine of destruction, programmed from the factory with one object only: to prevent us from doing our work. Resistance is implacable, intractable, indefatigable. Reduce it to a single cell and that cell will continue to attack. This is Resistance's nature. It's all it knows." -Steven Pressfield
"RESISTANCE IS IMPERSONAL Resistance is not out to get you personally. It doesn't know who you are and doesn't care. Resistance is a force of nature. It acts objectively. Though it feels malevolent, Resistance in fact operates with the indifference of rain and transits the heavens by the same laws as the stars. When we marshal our forces to combat Resistance, we must remember this." -Steven Pressfield
"That’s how I feel now, here in California, in my little house behind the big house. I have my list of approved players—Dostoevsky, Tolstoy, Hemingway, Mark Twain, Virginia Woolf, Melville, Faulkner, Fitzgerald, Chekhov, Harper Lee, Philip Roth, Saul Bellow, Homer, Plato, Xenophon, Shakespeare, King David." -Steven Pressfield
"RESISTANCE IS INFALLIBLE Like a magnetized needle floating on a surface of oil, Resistance will unfailingly point to true North — meaning that calling or action it most wants to stop us from doing. We can use this. We can use it as a compass. We can navigate by Resistance, letting it guide us to that calling or action that we must follow before all others. Rule of thumb: The more important a call or action is to our soul's evolution, the more Resistance we will feel toward pursuing it." -Steven Pressfield
"Throughout these peregrinations, Captain Junah, it seems, has been accompanied by a mysterious servant who, though technically in Junah’s employ, is said to exercise tremendous influence over him. The fellow appears and reappears at random intervals; no one knows when or where he and Junah first became acquainted, or even the man’s name…." "You mean Bagger Vance!" I blurted. "He’s here now. He’s caddying for Mr. Junah in the match!" -Steven Pressfield
"We are now faced with the fact, my friends, that tomorrow is today. We are confronted with the fierce urgency of now. In this unfolding conundrum of life and history, there is such a thing as being too late. Procrastination is still the thief of time. Life often leaves us standing bare, naked, and dejected with a lost opportunity. The tide in the affairs of men does not remain at flood—it ebbs. We may cry out desperately for time to pause in her passage, but time is adamant to every plea and rushes on. Over the bleached bones and jumbled residues of numerous civilizations are written the pathetic words, "Too late." Martin Luther King, Jr. Beyond Vietnam – A Time to Break Silence New York City, April 4, 1967" -Steven Pressfield
"Critics, he reminds himself, are the unwitting mouthpieces of Resistance and as such can be truly cunning and pernicious. They can articulate in their reviews the same toxic venom that Resistance itself concocts inside our heads. That is their real evil. Not that we believe them, but that we believe the Resistance in our own minds, for which critics serve as unconscious spokespersons." -Steven Pressfield
"RESISTANCE IS UNIVERSAL We're wrong if we think we're the only ones struggling with Resistance. Everyone who has a body experiences Resistance." -Steven Pressfield
"Ill health is a form of trouble, as are alcoholism and drug addiction, proneness to accidents, all neurosis including compulsive screwing-up, and such seemingly benign foibles as jealousy, chronic lateness, and the blasting of rap music at 110 dB from your smoked-glass ’95 Supra." -Steven Pressfield
"Memoirs of the North Africa campaign attest that, fierce and brutal as much of the fighting was, relations between individual enemies retained a quality of forbearance that seems, today, almost impossible to imagine. This" -Steven Pressfield
"RESISTANCE NEVER SLEEPS Henry Fonda was still throwing up before each stage performance, even when he was seventy-five. In other words, fear doesn't go away. The warrior and the artist live by the same code of necessity, which dictates that the battle must be fought anew every day." -Steven Pressfield
"It may help to think of it this way. If you were meant to cure cancer or write a symphony or crack cold fusion and you don't do it, you not only hurt yourself, even destroy yourself. You hurt your children. You hurt me. You hurt the planet. You shame the angels who watch over you and you spite the Almighty, who created you and only you with your unique gifts, for the sole purpose of nudging the human race one millimeter farther along its path back to God. Creative work is not a selfish act or a bid for attention on the part of the actor. It's a gift to the world and every being in it. Don't cheat us of your contribution. Give us what you've got." -Steven Pressfield
"I’m not motivated by greed, fame, or recognition. I’m in it for the game itself. Ambition, yes. I want to be good. Like myself at thirteen, I can’t hit the ball for shit. I can’t make it go right or left, I can’t hit it as long as I want, and I sure as hell can’t do it on demand. So I do it over and over, and when I’m done I do it over again. I do it in all weathers. And when I’m too tired to keep doing it myself, I watch other players whose level of skill I aspire to. I watch them do it." -Steven Pressfield
"The amateur hoards his knowledge and his reinforcement. He believes that if he shares what he possesses with others, he will lose it. The professional is happy to teach. He will gladly lend a hand or deliver a swift kick." -Steven Pressfield
"They peck a man’s asshole out, though God only knows why." -Steven Pressfield
"RESISTANCE IS FUELED BY FEAR Resistance has no strength of its own. Every ounce of juice it possesses comes from us. We feed it with power by our fear of it. Master that fear and we conquer Resistance." -Steven Pressfield
"The song we’re composing already exists in potential. Our work is to find it. Can we hear it in our head? It exists, like a signal coming from a faraway radio tower. Our job is to tune to that frequency." -Steven Pressfield
"I’m trying. I’m giving it my all. The thought of tailoring my output to any market or to please any imagined audience never enters my mind. This is for me. I’m writing to save my own life." -Steven Pressfield
"RESISTANCE ONLY OPPOSES IN ONE DIRECTION Resistance obstructs movement only from a lower sphere to a higher. It kicks in when we seek to pursue a calling in the arts, launch an innovative enterprise, or evolve to a higher station morally, ethically, or spiritually. So if you're in Calcutta working with the Mother Teresa Foundation and you're thinking of bolting to launch a career in telemarketing. . . relax. Resistance will give you a free pass." -Steven Pressfield
"Most of us have two lives. The life we live and the unlived life within us. Between the two stands Resistance" ,steven pressfield
"Alexander risked his life by being on the forefront. Alexander wore distinctive armor. So that his rush, would be missed by no one on the field. Why did he risk his life like this?First and most certainly, to inspire his men. They would follow their champions example. And attack with equal fire and passion. But Alexander believed something greater. His conviction was that heaven witnessing his act of valor and fearlessness, would be compelled to act as well. The higher dimension, would intervene, somehow, someway, in Alexander’s favor." -Steven Pressfield
"RESISTANCE IS MOST POWERFUL AT THE FINISH LINE Odysseus almost got home years before his actual homecoming. Ithaca was in sight, close enough that the sailors could see the smoke of their families' fires on shore. Odysseus was so certain he was safe, he actually lay down for a snooze. It was then that his men, believing there was gold in an ox-hide sack among their commander's possessions, snatched this prize and cut it open. The bag contained the adverse Winds, which King Aeolus had bottled up for Odysseus when the wanderer had touched earlier at his blessed isle. The winds burst forth now in one mad blow, driving Odysseus' ships back across every league of ocean they had with such difficulty traversed, making him endure further trials and sufferings before, at last and alone, he reached home for good. The danger is greatest when the finish line is in sight. At this point, Resistance knows we're about to beat it. It hits the panic button. It marshals one last assault and slams us with everything it's got. The professional must be alert for this counterattack. Be wary at the end. Don't open that bag of wind." -Steven Pressfield
"I type that. I type the whole chapter and the one after that and the one after that. Do I have a plan? Am I taking notes? I’m working mindlessly, like a chimpanzee. I want Hemingway’s stuff to sink into me by osmosis." -Steven Pressfield
"I like the idea of stubbornness because it’s less lofty than "tenacity" or "perseverance." We don’t have to be heroes to be stubborn. We can just be pains in the butt." -Steven Pressfield
"I sit at my table with The Sun Also Rises open and Mo snoozing beside the typewriter. I put on a bathrobe and slippers and went to the door. It was Brett. Back of her was the count. He was holding a great bunch of roses. I type that. I type the whole chapter and the one after that and the one after that. Do I have a plan? Am I taking notes? I’m working mindlessly, like a chimpanzee. I want Hemingway’s stuff to sink into me by osmosis. But I’m paying attention too. Hemingway’s style is cinematic. He makes you see. I went to the door. It was Brett. Back of her was the count. I’m trying to copy that. When you haul yourself up into the cab of a tractor-trailer, where does your foot go? What grab-handle do you seize? With which hand? Is the metal cold? What do you see as you slide into the driver’s seat? Smell? Hear? What does the instrument panel look like? What do you see through the windshield? What emotions are you feeling? Are you excited? Scared? Bored? Do you hate being here? Do you love it? What does it mean to you? How can I, the writer, reproduce that in you, the reader?" -Steven Pressfield
"Είδα το Διηνέκη να σκύβει για να δει αν ο Αλέξανδρος ανέπνεε ακόμη. Έπειτα ακούμπησε το αυτί του στο στήθος του νέου. [...] Ο Διηνέκης πίεσε το αυτί του ακόμα πιο πολύ στο στήθος του Αλέξανδρου. Μπορούσε να διακρίνει τον ήχο της δικής του καρδιάς, που βροντοχτυπούσε τώρα στο στήθος του, από τ χτύπο που τόσο απελπισμένα αναζητούσε στο στήθος του προστατευομένου του; Αφουγκράστηκε αρκετή ώρα. Τελικά, ο Διηνέκης ανασηκώθηκε. Η ράχη του φάνηκε να σηκώνει το βάρος κάθε πληγής και κάθε θανάτου, όλων των χρόνων που είχε ζήσει. Σήκωσε τρυφερά το κεφάλι του νέου βάζοντας το χέρι του πίσω στο σβέρκο του. Μια κραυγή γεμάτη θλίψη που δεν είχα ξανακούσει ποτέ βγήκε από το στήθος του αφέντη μου. Η πλάτη του τραντάχτηκε, οι ώμοι του ρίγησαν. Σήκωσε το άψυχο κορμί του Αλέξανδρου και το κράτησε στην αγκαλιά του. Τα χέρια του νέου άνδρα κρέμονταν άτονα, σαν της κούκλας. Ο Πολύνικος γονάτισε δίπλα στον αφέντη μου, έριξε έναν μανδύα στους ώμους του και τον εκράτησε όσο εκείνος έκλαιγε με λυγμούς." -Steven Pressfield
"Tomorrow morning the critic will be gone, but the writer will still be there facing the blank page. Nothing matters but that he keep working." -Steven Pressfield
"…what ails you and me has nothing to do with being sick…What ails us is that we are living our lives as amateurs. The solution…is that we turn pro." -Steven Pressfield
"Friends sometimes ask, "Don’t you get lonely sitting by yourself all day?" At first it seemed odd to hear myself answer No. Then I realized that I was not alone; I was in the book; I was with the characters. I was with my Self." -Steven Pressfield
"Seems he never learns there’s such a thing as a critter that might just keep comin’ on. So we’ll find ‘em in the end, I promise you that. Just as sure as the turning of the earth." -Steven Pressfield
"The Daily Show reported recently that scientists in Japan had invented a robot that is capable of recognizing its own reflection in a mirror. 'When the robot learns to hate what it sees,' said Jon Stewart, 'it will have achieved full humanity." -Steven Pressfield
"Like a magnetized needle floating on a surface of oil, Resistance will unfailingly point to true North—meaning that calling or action it most wants to stop us from doing.   We can use this. We can use it as a compass. We can navigate by Resistance, letting it guide us to that calling or action that we must follow before all others.   Rule of thumb: The more important a call or action is to our soul’s evolution, the more Resistance we will feel toward pursuing it." -Steven Pressfield
"The first duty is to sacrifice to the gods and pray them to grant you the thoughts, words, and deeds likely to render your command most pleasing to the gods and to bring yourself, your friends, and your city the fullest measure of affection and glory and advantage. –Xenophon, The Cavalry Commander" -Steven Pressfield
"At Athens and Athens alone, a new stamp of person was being born, neither baron nor yeoman, but a man of the city. A citizen. So" -Steven Pressfield
"The pro doesn't even pick up the phone. He stays at work." -Steven Pressfield
"No one is born a pro. You’ve got to fall before you hit bottom, and sometimes that fall can be a hell of a ride." -Steven Pressfield
"The soul. Mother love. Courage. These are closer to God, she taught, because they alone are the same on both sides of death, in front of the curtain and behind. "When I first came" -Steven Pressfield
"honor." -Steven Pressfield
"Am I hearing you right, sir?" Keeler asked. "Are you equating the swing with the soul, the Authentic Soul?" "I prefer the word Self," Bagger Vance said. "The Authentic Self. I believe this is the reason for the endless fascination of golf. The game is a metaphor for the soul’s search for its true ground and identity." -Steven Pressfield
"All three of these paths embody one unifying principle," Vance said. We were now approaching the eighteenth green. "That of surrender. Surrender of the Little Mind to the Big Mind, surrender of the personal ego to the greater wisdom of the Self." -Steven Pressfield
"The Ego produces Resistance and attacks the awakening artist." -Steven Pressfield
"Resistance feeds on fear. We experience Resistance as fear. But fear of what? Fear" -Steven Pressfield
"I read R.D. Laing, I read Victor Frankl. Anything by Ken Kesey or Peter Matthiessen, Gary Snyder, Jack Kerouac, Alan Ginsberg, R. Crumb, Bob Dylan. These sacred texts are passed from one hand to another like relics of a religious past or harbingers of a new faith." -Steven Pressfield
"Fear is good. Like self-doubt, fear is an indicator. Fear tells us what we have to do. Remember" -Steven Pressfield
"first hole at Prestwick in Scotland; the wind was howling out of the left. I started an eight-iron thirty yards to windward, but the gale caught it; I watched in dismay as the ball sailed hard right, hit the green going sideways, and bounded off into the cabbage. 'Sonofabitch!' I turned to our caddie. 'Did you see the wind take that shot!?' He gave that look that only Scottish caddies can give. 'Well, ye've got t' play th' wind now," -Steven Pressfield
"The only thing I want is to exorcise and eradicate from my psyche every belief, assumption, thought, aspiration, dream, hope and moral principle I have been taught or imbibed in my entire life. They don’t work. They have led me to this. I hate them. I abhor every person and institution that has brainwashed or indoctrinated me into believing them. I hate myself for buying into this bullshit. I want to replace it all as fast and as permanently as I can with whatever long-haired, counter-culture, freakazoid Mr. Natural doctrine and belief system I can derive from my new friends in the house and from Charles and David. I want to be like the freaks I saw at Buster Holmes’ in the French Quarter. Can I pass through a membrane that will deposit me, somehow, on the other side? I want it. I want to find that portal and transmigrate through. Does there exist a state of mind, a mode of being, a sphere of consciousness that will somehow obliterate everything I have ever believed? I want to find this and jump through with both feet. In the meantime, I have to find work." -Steven Pressfield
"The opposite of fear," Dienekes said, "is love." -Steven Pressfield
"symptoms." -Steven Pressfield
"Men’s pain is lightly borne and swiftly over. Our wounds are of the flesh, which is nothing; women’s is of the heart—sorrow unending, far more bitter to bear." -Steven Pressfield
"We become friends instantly. I simply gravitate to him. Tony is the first person I’ve ever met who actually possesses self-discipline. I have never encountered this before. Other individuals I’ve admired for their focus and commitment have jobs or are in the military. They adhere to their institution’s norms and protocols. That’s discipline, but it’s not self-discipline. It’s externally imposed, not generated from within." -Steven Pressfield
"individuo verdaderamente libre es solo libre en la medida en que se controla a sí mismo. Mientras que aquellos que no se saben gobernar están condenados a encontrar quién los gobierne." -Steven Pressfield
"What is a tramp anyway? Dave explained: 'A tramp is an itinerant worker. A hobo is an itinerant non-worker. A bum is a non-itinerant non-worker." -Steven Pressfield