"Appear weak when you are strong, and strong when you are weak." -Sun Tzu
"The supreme art of war is to subdue the enemy without fighting." -Sun Tzu
"If you know the enemy and know yourself, you need not fear the result of a hundred battles. If you know yourself but not the enemy, for every victory gained you will also suffer a defeat. If you know neither the enemy nor yourself, you will succumb in every battle." -Sun Tzu
"Let your plans be dark and impenetrable as night, and when you move, fall like a thunderbolt." -Sun Tzu
"In the midst of chaos, there is also opportunity" -Sun Tzu
"Supreme excellence consists of breaking the enemy's resistance without fighting." -Sun Tzu
"All warfare is based on deception. Hence, when we are able to attack, we must seem unable; when using our forces, we must appear inactive; when we are near, we must make the enemy believe we are far away; when far away, we must make him believe we are near." -Sun Tzu
"Victorious warriors win first and then go to war, while defeated warriors go to war first and then seek to win" -Sun Tzu
"The greatest victory is that which requires no battle." -Sun Tzu
"If your enemy is secure at all points, be prepared for him. If he is in superior strength, evade him. If your opponent is temperamental, seek to irritate him. Pretend to be weak, that he may grow arrogant. If he is taking his ease, give him no rest. If his forces are united, separate them. If sovereign and subject are in accord, put division between them. Attack him where he is unprepared, appear where you are not expected ." -Sun Tzu
"To know your Enemy, you must become your Enemy." -Sun Tzu
"Engage people with what they expect; it is what they are able to discern and confirms their projections. It settles them into predictable patterns of response, occupying their minds while you wait for the extraordinary moment -- that which they cannot anticipate." -Sun Tzu
"There is no instance of a nation benefitting from prolonged warfare." -Sun Tzu
"Thus we may know that there are five essentials for victory: 1 He will win who knows when to fight and when not to fight. 2 He will win who knows how to handle both superior and inferior forces.3 He will win whose army is animated by the same spirit throughout all its ranks. 4 He will win who, prepared himself, waits to take the enemy unprepared. 5 He will win who has military capacity and is not interfered with by the sovereign." -Sun Tzu
"Treat your men as you would your own beloved sons. And they will follow you into the deepest valley." -Sun Tzu
"Even the finest sword plunged into salt water will eventually rust." -Sun Tzu
"Move swift as the Wind and closely-formed as the Wood. Attack like the Fire and be still as the Mountain." -Sun Tzu
"When you surround an army, leave an outlet free. Do not press a desperate foe too hard." -Sun Tzu
"Opportunities multiply as they are seized." -Sun Tzu
"There are not more than five musical notes, yet the combinations of these five give rise to more melodies than can ever be heard. There are not more than five primary colours, yet in combinationthey produce more hues than can ever been seen.There are not more than five cardinal tastes, yet combinations ofthem yield more flavours than can ever be tasted." -Sun Tzu
"who wishes to fight must first count the cost" -Sun Tzu
"When the enemy is relaxed, make them toil. When full, starve them. When settled, make them move." -Sun Tzu
"The art of war is of vital importance to the State. It is a matter of life and death, a road either to safety or to ruin. Hence it is a subject of inquiry which can on no account be neglected." -Sun Tzu
"If you wait by the river long enough, the bodies of your enemies will float by." -Sun Tzu
"know yourself and you will win all battles" -Sun Tzu
"To win one hundred victories in one hundred battles is not the acme of skill. To subdue the enemy without fighting is the acme of skill." -Sun Tzu
"So in war, the way is to avoid what is strong, and strike at what is weak." -Sun Tzu
"Be extremely subtle even to the point of formlessness. Be extremely mysterious even to the point of soundlessness. Thereby you can be the director of the opponent's fate." -Sun Tzu
"The wise warrior avoids the battle." -Sun Tzu
"Build your opponent a golden bridge to retreat across." -Sun Tzu
"The whole secret lies in confusing the enemy, so that he cannot fathom our real intent." -Sun Tzu
"When strong, avoid them. If of high morale, depress them. Seem humble to fill them with conceit. If at ease, exhaust them. If united, separate them. Attack their weaknesses. Emerge to their surprise." -Sun Tzu
"What the ancients called a clever fighter is one who not only wins, but excels in winning with ease." -Sun Tzu
"One may know how to conquer without being able to do it. " -Sun Tzu
"Rouse him, and learn the principle of his activity or inactivity. Force him to reveal himself, so as to find out his vulnerable spots." -Sun Tzu
"One mark of a great soldier is that he fight on his own terms or fights not at all." -Sun Tzu
"If you know the enemy and know yourself, your victory will not stand in doubt; if you know Heaven and know Earth, you may make your victory complete." -Sun Tzu
"He who is prudent and lies in wait for an enemy who is not, will be victorious." -Sun Tzu
"You have to believe in yourself. " -Sun Tzu
"If your opponent is of choleric temper,  seek to irritate him.  Pretend to be weak, that he may grow arrogant." -Sun Tzu
"Attack is the secret of defense; defense is the planning of an attack." -Sun Tzu
"If the mind is willing, the flesh could go on and on without many things." -Sun Tzu
"Thus the expert in battle moves the enemy, and is not moved by him." -Sun Tzu
"There are roads which must not be followed, armies which must not be attacked, towns which must not be besieged, positions which must not be contested, commands of the sovereign which must not be obeyed." -Sun Tzu
"Anger may in time change to gladness; vexation may be succeeded by content.But a kingdom that has once been destroyed can never come again into being; nor can the dead ever be brought back to life." -Sun Tzu
"Great results, can be achieved with small forces." -Sun Tzu
"Attack him where he is unprepared, appear where you are not expected." -Sun Tzu
"When one treats people with benevolence, justice, and righteoousness, and reposes confidence in them, the army will be united in mind and all will be happy to serve their leaders'." -Sun Tzu
"Pretend inferiority and encourage his arrogance." -Sun Tzu
"Convince your enemy that he will gain very little by attacking you; this will diminish his enthusiasm" -Sun Tzu
"Ponder and deliberate before you make a move." -Sun Tzu
"If quick, I survive.If not quick, I am lost.This is 'death." -Sun Tzu
"If soldiers are punished before they have grown attached to you, they will not prove submissive;and, unless submissive, then will be practically useless. If, when the soldiers have become attachedto you, punishments are not enforced, they will still be unless." -Sun Tzu
"He will win who knows when to fight and when not to fight" -Sun Tzu
"Knowing the enemy enables you to take the offensive, knowing yourself enables you to stand on the defensive." -Sun Tzu
"Ultimate excellence lies not in winning every battle, but in defeating the enemy without ever fighting." -Sun Tzu
"To secure ourselves against defeat lies in our own hands, but theopportunity of defeating the enemy is provided by the enemy himself." -Sun Tzu
"Bravery without forethought, causes a man to fight blindly and desperately like a mad bull.  Such an opponent, must not be encountered with brute force, but may be lured into an ambush and slain." -Sun Tzu
"mystify, mislead, and surprise the enemy" -Sun Tzu
"It is easy to love your friend, but sometimes the hardest lesson to learn is to love your enemy." -Sun Tzu
"If ignorant both of your enemy and yourself, you are certain to be in peril." -Sun Tzu
"Wheels of justice gind slow but grind fine" -Sun Tzu
"There are five dangerous faults which may affect a general:(1) Recklessness, which leads to destruction;(2) cowardice, which leads to capture;(3) a hasty temper, which can be provoked by insults;(4) a delicacy of honor which is sensitive to shame;(5) over-solicitude for his men, which exposes him to worry and trouble." -Sun Tzu
"The general who advances without coveting fame and retreats without fearing disgrace, whose only thought is to protect his country and do good service for his sovereign, is the jewel of the kingdom." -Sun Tzu
"Move not unless you see an advantage; use not your troops unless there is something to be gained; fight not unless the position is critical." -Sun Tzu
"He will win who, prepared himself, waits to take the enemy unprepared." -Sun Tzu
"Plan for what it is difficult while it is easy, do what is great while it is small." -Sun Tzu
"Never venture, never win!" -Sun Tzu
"Every battle is won before it's ever fought." -Sun Tzu
"Disorder came from order, fear came from courage, weakness came from strength." -Sun Tzu
"If he sends reinforcements everywhere, he will everywhere be weak." -Sun Tzu
"Be where your enemy is not." -Sun Tzu
"Begin by seizing something which your opponent holds dear; then he will be amenable to your will." -Sun Tzu
"Rewards for good service should not be deferred a single day." -Sun Tzu
"If his forces are united, separate them." -Sun Tzu
"The skillful tactician may be likened to the shuai-jan. Now the shuai-jan is a snake that is found in the Ch'ang mountains. Strike at its head, and you will be attacked by its tail; strike at its tail, and you will be attacked by its head; strike at its middle, and you will be attacked by head and tail both." -Sun Tzu
"Water shapes its course according to the nature of the groundover which it flows; the soldier works out his victory in relationto the foe whom he is facing." -Sun Tzu
"But a kingdom that has once been destroyed can never come again into being; nor can the dead ever be brought back to life." -Sun Tzu
"If words of command are not clear and distinct, if orders are not thoroughly understood, then the general is to blame. But, if orders are clear and the soldiers nevertheless disobey, then it is the fault of their oficers." -Sun Tzu
"To fight and conquer in all your battles is not supreme excellence; supreme excellence consists in breaking the enemy's resistance without fighting." -Sun Tzu
"the opportunity of defeating the enemy is provided by the enemy himself." -Sun Tzu
"Know your enemy and know yourself and you can fight a hundred battles without disaster" -Sun Tzu
"who does not know the evils of war cannot appreciate its benefits" -Sun Tzu
"It is only the enlightened ruler and the wise general who will use the highest intelligence of the army for the purposes of spying, and thereby they achieve great results." -Sun Tzu
"Therefore, just as water retains no constant shape, so in warfare there are no constant conditions." -Sun Tzu
"Conform to the enemy's tactics until a favorable opportunity offers; then come forth and engage in a battle that shall prove decisive." -Sun Tzu
"When your army has crossed the border, you should burn your boats and bridges, in order to make it clear to everybody that you have no hankering after home." -Sun Tzu
"He who advances without seeking fame,Who retreats without escaping blame,He whose one aim is to protect his people and serve his lord,The man is a jewel of the Realm" -Sun Tzu
"Hence to fight and conquer in all your battles is not supreme excellence; supreme excellence consists in breaking the enemy's resistance without fighting." -Sun Tzu
"Hence a commander who advances without any thought of winning personal fame and withdraws in spite of certain punishment, whose only concern is to protect his people and promote the interests of his ruler, is the nation's treasure. Because he fusses over his men as if they were infants, they will accompany him into the deepest valleys; because he fusses over his men as if they were his own beloved sons, they will die by his side. If he is generous with them and yet they do not do as he tells them, if he loves them and yet they do not obey his commands, if he is so undisciplined with them that he cannot bring them into proper order, they will be like spoiled children who can be put to no good use at all." -Sun Tzu
"If you know yourself but not the enemy, for every victory gained you will also suffer a defeat." -Sun Tzu
"In battle, there are not more than two methods of attack--thedirect and the indirect; yet these two in combination give rise toan endless series of maneuvers." -Sun Tzu
"Energy may be likened to the bending of a crossbow; decision,to the releasing of a trigger." -Sun Tzu
"the worst calamities that befall an army arise from hesitation" -Sun Tzu
"Those skilled at making the enemy move do so by creating a situation to which he must conform; they entice him with something he is certain to take, and with lures of ostensible profit they await him in strength." -Sun Tzu
"Know thy self, know thy enemy. A thousand battles, a thousand victories." -Sun Tzu
"If there is disturbance in the camp, the general's authority is weak. " -Sun Tzu
"Hence that general is skilful in attack whose opponent does not know what to defend; and he is skilful in defense whose opponent does not know what to attack." -Sun Tzu
"do many calculations lead to victory, and few calculations to defeat" -Sun Tzu
"Do not swallow bait offered by the enemy. Do not interfere with an army that is returning home." -Sun Tzu
"Foreknowledge cannot be gotten from ghosts and spirits, cannot be had by analogy, cannot be found out by calculation. It must be obtained from people, people who know the conditions of the enemy." -Sun Tzu
"Conceal your dispositions, and your condition will remain secret, which leads to victory;  show your dispositions, and your condition will become patent, which leads to defeat." -Sun Tzu
"if you fight with all your might,  there is a chance of life; where as death is certain if you cling to your corner" -Sun Tzu
"Success in warfare is gained by carefully accommodating ourselves to the enemy's purpose." -Sun Tzu
"Deep knowledge is to be aware of disturbance before disturbance, to be aware of danger before danger, to be aware of destruction before destruction, to be aware of calamity before calamity. Strong action is training the body without being burdened by the body, exercising the mind without being used by the mind, working in the world without being affected by the world, carrying out tasks without being obstructed by tasks." -Sun Tzu
"You can ensure the safety of your defense if you only hold positions that cannot be attacked." -Sun Tzu
"Whether in an advantageous position or a disadvantageous one, the opposite state should be always present to your mind." -Sun Tzu
"You can be sure of succeeding in your attacks if you only attack places which are undefended." -Sun Tzu
"It is the unemotional, reserved, calm, detached warrior who wins, not the hothead seeking vengeance and not the ambitious seeker of fortune." -Sun Tzu
"If those who are sent to draw water begin by drinking themselves, the army is suffering from thirst. [One may know the condition of a whole army from the behavior of a single man.]" -Sun Tzu
"The end and aim of spying in all its five varieties is knowledge of the enemy; and this knowledge can only be derived, in the first instance, from the converted spy. Hence it is essential that the converted spy be treated with the utmost liberality." -Sun Tzu
"Invincibility lies in the defence; the possibility of victory in the attack." -Sun Tzu
"When the outlook is bright, bring it before their eyes; but tell them nothing when the situation is gloomy." -Sun Tzu
"By reinforcing every part, he weakens every part." -Sun Tzu
"We cannot enter into alliances until we are acquainted with the designs of our neighbors." -Sun Tzu
"The spot where we intend to fight must not be made known; for then the enemy will have to prepare against a possible attack at several different points;" -Sun Tzu
"The Art of War is self-explanatory" -Sun Tzu
"The control of a large force is the same principleas the control of a few men: it is merely a question of dividing uptheir numbers." -Sun Tzu
"There are not more than five primary colors  (blue, yellow,  red, white, and black), yet in combination they produce more hues than can ever been seen." -Sun Tzu
"Whoever is first in the field and awaits the coming of the enemy, will be fresh for the fight; whoever is second in the field and has to hasten to battle will arrive exhausted." -Sun Tzu
"Whoever is first in the field and awaits the coming of the enemy, will be fresh for the fight; whoever is second in the field and has to hasten to battle will arrive exhausted." -Sun Tzu
"It is the rule in war, if our forces are ten to the enemy's one,to surround him; if five to one, to attack him; if twice as numerous,to divide our army into two." -Sun Tzu
"When the common soldiers are too strong and their officers too weak, the result is INSUBORDINATION." -Sun Tzu
"The general who does not advance to seek glory, or does not withdraw to avoid punishment, but cares for only the people's security and promotes the people's interests, is the nation's treasure." -Sun Tzu
"When the general is weak and without authority; when his orders are not clear and distinct; when there are no fixed duties assigned to officers and men, and the ranks are formed in a slovenly haphazard manner, the result is utter disorganization." -Sun Tzu
"It is best to keep one's own state intact; to crush the enemy's state is only second best." -Sun Tzu
"To lift an autumn hair is no sign of great strength; to see the sun and moon is no sign of sharp sight; to hear the noise of thunder is no sign of a quick ear." -Sun Tzu
"O divine art of subtlety and secrecy! Through you we learn to be invisible, through you inaudible, and hence we can hold the enemy's fate in our hands." -Sun Tzu
"Order or disorder depends on organisation; courage or cowardice on circumstances; strength or weakness on dispositions." -Sun Tzu
"No ruler should put troops into the field merely to gratify hisown spleen; no general should fight a battle simply out of pique.If it is to your advantage, make a forward move; if not, staywhere you are.Anger may in time change to gladness; vexation may be succeededby content.But a kingdom that has once been destroyed can never come againinto being; nor can the dead ever be brought back to life." -Sun Tzu
"Unhappy is the fate of one who tries to win his battles and succeed in his attacks without cultivating the spirit of enterprise;  for the result is waste of time and   general stagnation." -Sun Tzu
"The principle on which to manage an army is to set up one standard of courage which all must reach." -Sun Tzu
"When the officers are too strong and the common soldiers too weak, the result is COLLAPSE." -Sun Tzu
"The good fighters of old first put themselves beyond the possibility of defeat, and then waited for an opportunity of defeating the enemy." -Sun Tzu
"Confront them with annihilation, and they will then survive; plunge them into a deadly situation, and they will then live. When people fall into danger, they are then able to strive for victory." -Sun Tzu
"All men can see the tactics whereby I conquer, but what none can see is the strategy out of which victory is evolved." -Sun Tzu
"Hold out baits to entice the enemy. Feign disorder, and crush him." -Sun Tzu
"All warfare is based on deception." -Sun Tzu
"Danger has a bracing effect." -Sun Tzu
"It is only one who is thoroughly acquainted with the evils of warthat can thoroughly understand the profitable way of carrying it on." -Sun Tzu
"One hundred victories in one hundred battles is not the most skillful, subduing the other's military without battle is the most skillful." -Sun Tzu
"He who relies solely on warlike measures shall be exterminated; he who relies solely on peaceful measures shall perish." -Sun Tzu
"Like the sun and moon, they end but to begin anew; like the four seasons, they pass away to return once more." -Sun Tzu
"No ruler should put troops into the field merely to gratify his own spleen; no general should fight a battle simply out of pique." -Sun Tzu
"A leader leads by example not by force." -Sun Tzu
"There are five dangerous faults which may affect a general: (1) Recklessness, which leads to destruction; (2) cowardice, which leads to capture; (3) a hasty temper, which can be provoked by insults; (4) a delicacy of honor which is sensitive to shame; (5) over-solicitude for his men, which exposes him to worry and trouble." -Sun Tzu
"For the wise man delights in establishing his merit, the brave man likes to show his courage in action, the covetous man is quick at seizing advantages, and the stupid man has no fear of death." -Sun Tzu
"Through you we learn to be invisible, through you inaudible; and hence we can hold the enemy's fate in our hands." -Sun Tzu
"So long as victory can be attained,  stupid haste is preferable to clever dilatoriness." -Sun Tzu
"If you are near the enemy, make him believe you are far from him.If you are far from the enemy, make him believe you are now" -Sun Tzu
"Know the enemy and know yourself; in a hundred battles you will never be in peril. When you are ignorant of the enemy, but know yourself, your chances of winning or losing are equal. If ignorant both of your enemy and yourself, you are certain in every battle to be in peril." -Sun Tzu
"If I determine the enemy's disposition of forces while I have no perceptible form, I can concentrate my forces while the enemy is fragmented. The pinnacle of military deployment approaches the formless: if it is formless, then even the deepest spy cannot discern it nor the wise make plans against it." -Sun Tzu
"We are not fit to lead an army on the march unless we are familiar with the face of the country -- its mountains and forests, its pitfalls and precipices, its marshes and swamps." -Sun Tzu
"Standing on the defensive indicates insufficient strength; attacking, a superabundance of strength." -Sun Tzu
"In the practical art of war, the best thing of all is to take the enemy's country whole and intact; to shatter and destroy it is not so good. So, too, it is better to recapture an army entire than to destroy it, to capture a regiment, a detachment or a company entire than to destroy them." -Sun Tzu
"If we wish to wrest an advantage from the enemy, we must not fix our minds on that alone, but allow for the possibility of the enemy also doing some harm to us, and let this enter as a factor into our calculations." -Sun Tzu
"When we are near, we must make the enemy believe we are far away..." -Sun Tzu
"Supreme importance in war is to attack the enemy's strategy." -Sun Tzu
"The art of war is of vital importance to the State." -Sun Tzu
"Regard your soldiers as your children, and they will follow you into the deepest valleys; look upon them as your own beloved sons, and they will stand by you even unto death." -Sun Tzu
"If you do not take opportunity   to   advance and reward   the   deserving,   your subordinates will not carry out your commands, and disaster will ensue." -Sun Tzu
"The skillful employer of men will employ the wise man, the brave man, the covetous man, and the stupid man. For the wise man delights in establishing his merit, the brave man likes to show his courage in action, the covetous man is quick at seizing advantages, and the stupid man has no fear of death.']" -Sun Tzu
"Sun Tzu said: The good fighters of old first put themselves beyond the possibility of defeat, and then waited for an opportunity of defeating the enemy." -Sun Tzu
"You can be sure of succeeding in your attacks if you only attack places which are undefended.You can ensure the safety of your defense if you only hold positions that cannot be attacked." -Sun Tzu
"Regard your soldiers as your children, and they will follow you into the deepest valleys; look on them as your own beloved sons" -Sun Tzu
"The art of war, then, is governed by five constant factors, to be taken into account in one's deliberations, when seeking to determine the conditions obtaining in the field." -Sun Tzu
"In making tactical dispositions, the highest pitch you can attain is to conceal them" -Sun Tzu
"Strategy without tactics is the slowest route to victory. Tactics without strategy is noise before defeat." -Sun Tzu
"If you know the enemy and know yourself, you need not fear the result of a hundred battles." -Sun Tzu
"Pretend to be weak, that he may grow arrogant." -Sun Tzu
"In difficult ground, press on; In encircled ground, devise stratagems; In death ground, fight." -Sun Tzu
"Thus it is that in war the victorious strategist only seeks battle after the victory is won, whereas he who is destined to defeat first fights and afterwards looks for victory." -Sun Tzu
"To begin by bluster, but afterwards to take fright at the enemy's numbers, shows a supreme lack of intelligence." -Sun Tzu
"He will win who knows how to handle both superior and inferior forces." -Sun Tzu
"These military devices, leading to victory, must not be divulged beforehand." -Sun Tzu
"Therefore the skillful leader subdues the enemy's troops without any fighting; he captures their cities without laying siege to them; he overthrows their kingdom without lengthy operations in the field." -Sun Tzu
"first lay plans which will ensure victory, and then lead your army to battle;  if you will not begin with stratagem but rely on brute strength alone, victory will no longer be assured" -Sun Tzu
"At first, then, exhibit the coyness of a maiden,  until the enemy gives you an opening; afterwards emulate the rapidity of a running hare, and it will be too late for the enemy to oppose you." -Sun Tzu
"Therefore the clever combatant imposes his will on the enemy, but does not allow the enemy's will to be imposed on him." -Sun Tzu
"Thus, what enables the wise sovereign and the good general to strike and conquer, and achieve things beyond the reach of ordinary men, is foreknowledge." -Sun Tzu
"He wins his battles by making no mistakes.Making no mistakes is what establishes the certainty of victory, for it means conquering an enemy that is already defeated." -Sun Tzu
"For should the enemy strengthen his van, he will weaken his rear; should he strengthen his rear, he will weaken his van; should he strengthen his left, he will weaken his right; should he strengthen his right, he will weaken his left. If he sends reinforcements everywhere, he will everywhere be weak." -Sun Tzu
"Sun Tzu said: The art of war recognises nine varieties of ground: (1) Dispersive ground; (2) facile ground; (3) contentious ground; (4) open ground; (5) ground of intersecting highways; (6) serious ground; (7) difficult ground; (8) hemmed-in ground; (9) desperate ground." -Sun Tzu
"and addressed them thus: 'I presume you know the difference between front and back, right hand and left hand?" -Sun Tzu
"Be stern in the council-chamber, [Show no weakness, and insist on your plans being ratified by the sovereign.] so that you may control the situation." -Sun Tzu
"Appear at points which the enemy must hasten to defend; march swiftly to places where you are not expected." -Sun Tzu
"15. In war, practice dissimulation, and you will succeed." -Sun Tzu
"Thus, though we have heard of stupid haste in war, cleverness has never been seen associated with long delays." -Sun Tzu
"There are roads which must not be followed, armies which must be not attacked, towns which must not be besieged, positions which must not be contested, commands of the sovereign which must not be obeyed." -Sun Tzu
"Hence, when able to attack, we must seem unable; when using our forces, we must seem inactive; when we are near, we must make the enemy believe we are far away; when far away, we must make him believe we are near." -Sun Tzu
"Ground on which we can only be saved from destruction by fighting without delay, is desperate ground." -Sun Tzu
"When you engage in actual fighting, if victory is long in coming, then men's weapons will grow dull and their ardour will be damped. If you lay siege to a town, you will exhaust your strength." -Sun Tzu
"Those who are skilled in combat do not become angered, those who are skilled at winning do not become afraid. Thus the wise win before they fight, while the ignorant fight to win." -Sun Tzu
"Sun Tzu said: In the practical art of war, the best thing of all is to take the enemy's country whole and intact; to shatter and destroy it is not so good. So, too, it is better to capture an army entire than to destroy it, to capture a regiment, a detachment or a company entire than to destroy them." -Sun Tzu
"If we wish to fight, the enemy can be forced to an engagement even though he be sheltered behind a high rampart and a deep ditch. All we need do is attack some other place that he will be obliged to relieve." -Sun Tzu
"When an invading force crosses a river in its onward march, do not advance to meet it in mid-stream.  It will be best to let half the army get across, and then deliver your attack." -Sun Tzu
"Do not repeat the tactics which have gained you one victory, but let your methods be regulated by the infinite variety of circumstances." -Sun Tzu
"There are not more than five primary colours, yet in combination they produce more hues than can ever been seen." -Sun Tzu
"On open ground, do not try to block the enemy's way. On the ground of intersecting highways, join hands with your allies." -Sun Tzu
"He will win whose army is animated by the spirit throughout all its ranks." -Sun Tzu
"The general who wins a battle makes many calculations in his temple before the battle is fought. The general who loses a battle makes but few calculations." -Sun Tzu
"He who only sees the obvious, wins his battles with difficulty; he who looks below the surface of things, wins with ease" -Sun Tzu
"Excessive rewards are a sign of desperation. Excessive punishments are a sign of exhaustion." -Sun Tzu
"The captured soldiers should be kindly treated and kept." -Sun Tzu
"One need not destroy one's enemy. One need only destroy his willingness to engage." -Sun Tzu
"There are not more than five musical notes, yet the combinations of these five give rise to more melodies than can ever be heard." -Sun Tzu
"Sun Tzu said: The art of war is of vital importance to the State." -Sun Tzu
"licited from spirits; it cannot be obtained inductively from experience, nor by any" -Sun Tzu
"Water shapes its course according to the nature of the ground over which it flows; the soldier works out his victory in relation to the foe whom he is facing." -Sun Tzu
"If, on the other hand, in the midst of difficulties we are always ready to seize an advantage, we may extricate ourselves from misfortune." -Sun Tzu
"Confucius said, 'People may have the finest talents, but if they are arrogant and stingy, their other qualities are not worthy of consideration." -Sun Tzu
"It is the rule in war, if our forces are ten to the enemy's one, to surround him; if five to one, to attack him; if twice as numerous, to divide our army into two." -Sun Tzu
"Throw your soldiers into positions whence there is no escape, and they will prefer death to flight. If they will face death, there is nothing they may not achieve. Officers and men alike will put forth their uttermost strength. Soldiers in desperate straits lose the sense of fear. If there is no place of refuge, they will stand firm. If they are in the heart of a hostile country, they will show a stubborn front. If there is no help for it, they will fight hard. Thus, without waiting to be marshaled, the soldiers will be constantly on the alert, and without waiting to be asked, they will do your will; without restrictions, they will be faithful; without giving orders, they can be trusted.Prohibit the taking of omens, and do away with superstitious doubts. Then, until death itself comes, no calamity need be feared." -Sun Tzu
"Regard your soldiers as your children, and they will follow you into the deepest valleys; look upon them as your own beloved sons, and they will stand by you even unto death. If, however, you are indulgent, but unable to make your authority felt; kind-hearted, but unable to enforce your commands; and incapable, moreover, of quelling disorder: then your soldiers must be likened to spoilt children; they are useless for any practical purpose." -Sun Tzu
"The best military policy is to attack strategies; the next to attack alliances; the next to attack soldiers." -Sun Tzu
"The answer was again in the affirmative, so arrangements were made to bring 180 ladies out of the Palace. Sun Tzu divided them into two companies, and placed one of the King's favourite concubines at the head of each. He then bade them all take spears in their hands, and addressed them thus: 'I presume you know the difference between front and back, right hand and left hand?" -Sun Tzu
"El arte de la guerra se basa en el engaño. Por lo tanto, cuando es capaz de atacar, ha de aparentar incapacidad; cuando las trampas se mueven, aparentar inactividad." -Sun Tzu
"Hence the skillful fighter puts himself into a position which makes defeat impossible, and does not miss the moment for defeating the enemy." -Sun Tzu
"Si utilizas al enemigo para derrotar al enemigo, serás poderoso en cualquier lugar a donde vayas" -Sun Tzu
"Opportunistic relationships can hardly be kept constant. The acquaintance of honorable people, even at a distance, does not add flowers in times of warmth and does not change its leaves in times of cold: it continues unfading through the four seasons, becomes increasingly stable as it passes through ease and danger." -Sun Tzu
"A clever general, therefore, avoids an army when its spirit is keen, but attacks it when it is sluggish and inclined to return." -Sun Tzu
"The rising of birds in their flight is the sign of an ambuscade. Startled beasts indicate that a sudden attack is coming." -Sun Tzu
"15. Thus it is that in war the victorious strategist only seeks battle after the victory has been won, whereas he who is destined to defeat first fights and afterwards looks for victory." -Sun Tzu
"Thus it is that in war the victorious strategist only seeks battle after the victory has been won, whereas he who is destined to defeat first fights and afterwards looks for victory." -Sun Tzu
"Sun Tzu Wu was a native of the Ch`i State. His Art of War brought him to the notice of Ho Lu, King of Wu. Ho Lu said to him: 'I have carefully perused your 13 chapters. May I submit your theory of managing soldiers to a slight test?" -Sun Tzu
"The art of war is the art of deception." -Sun Tzu
"Sun Tzu said: Whoever is first in the field and awaits the coming of the enemy, will be fresh for the fight; whoever is second in the field and has to hasten to battle will arrive exhausted." -Sun Tzu
"By method and discipline are to be understood the marshaling of the army in its proper subdivisions, the graduations of rank among the officers, the maintenance of roads by which supplies may reach the army, and the control of military expenditure." -Sun Tzu
"I have heard that in war haste can be folly, but have never seen delay that was wise." -Sun Tzu
"To secure ourselves against defeat lies in our own hands, but the opportunity of defeating the enemy is provided by the enemy himself." -Sun Tzu
"Simulated disorder postulates perfect discipline, simulated fear postulates courage; simulated weakness postulates strength. Hiding order beneath the cloak of disorder is simply a question of subdivision; concealing courage under a show of timidity presupposes a fund of latent energy; masking strength with weakness is to be effected by tactical dispositions. Thus one who is skillful at keeping the enemy on the move maintains deceitful appearances, according to which the enemy will act. He sacrifices something, that the enemy may snatch at it." -Sun Tzu
"There are not more than five cardinal tastes, yet combinations of them yield more flavours than can ever be tasted." -Sun Tzu
"Stir opponents up, making them respond to you; then you can observe their forms of behavior, and whether they are orderly or confused." -Sun Tzu
"Hiding order beneath the cloak of disorder is simply a question of subdivision; concealing courageunder a show of timidity presupposes a fund of latent energy; masking strength with weakness is tobe effected by tactical dispositions." -Sun Tzu
"I pee in the toilets of my enemies, so that when they flush my pee comes out" -Sun Tzu
"as swift as wind, as gentle as forest, as fierce as fire, as unshakable as mountain" -Sun Tzu
"Weapons are inauspicious instruments, not the tools of the enlightened. When there is no choice but to use them, it is best to be calm and free from greed, and not celebrate victory. Those who celebrate victory are bloodthirsty, and the bloodthirsty cannot have their way with the world." -Sun Tzu
"Some people think insufficiency means weakness and surplus means strength, but this impression is wrong." -Sun Tzu
"لا تطارد عدوا سريعا يكاد يطير، ولا تهاجم جنودا طبعهم حاد عنيف" -Sun Tzu
"concubines" -Sun Tzu
"The art of war teaches us to rely not on the likelihood of the enemy's not coming, but on our own readiness to receive him; not on the chance of his not attacking, but rather on the fact that we have made our position unassailable." -Sun Tzu
"I have heard that the ancients used bows and arrows to their advantage." -Sun Tzu
"Hence" -Sun Tzu
"If you know neither the enemy nor yourself, you will succumb in every battle." -Sun Tzu
"Where there are repeated wars, the people are weakened; when they score repeated victories, rulers become haughty. Let haughty rulers command weakened people, and rare is the nation that will not perish as a result." -Sun Tzu
"choleric" -Sun Tzu
"My eldest brother sees the spirit of sickness and removes it before it takes shape, so his name does not get out of the house. My elder brother cures sickness when it is still extremely minute, so his name does not get out of the neighborhood. As for me, I puncture veins, prescribe potions, and massage skin, so from time to time my name gets out and is heard among the lords." -Sun Tzu
"Solving large, difficult problems may earn you a reputation for skillful negotiation, but Sun Tzu asserts that this supposed achievement is actually a form of failure, and having true wisdom means preventing difficult problems from arising in the first place. Ironically," -Sun Tzu
"If words of command are not clear and distinct, if orders are not thoroughly understood, then the general is to blame." -Sun Tzu
"Humble words and increased preparations are signs that the enemy is about to advance. Violent language and driving forward as if to the attack are signs that he will retreat." -Sun Tzu
"Cualquiera que tenga forma puede ser definido, y cualquiera que pueda ser definido puede ser vencido." -Sun Tzu
"expenditure" -Sun Tzu
"A government should not mobilize an army out of anger, military leaders should not provoke war out of wrath. Act when it is beneficial to do so, desist if not. Anger can revert to joy, wrath can revert to delight, but a nation destroyed cannot be restored to existence, and the dead cannot be restored to life." -Sun Tzu
"21.  If he is secure at all points, be prepared for him. If he is in superior strength, evade him. 22.  If your opponent is of choleric temper, seek to irritate him. Pretend to be weak, that he may grow arrogant. [Wang Tzu, quoted by Tu Yu, says that the good tactician plays with his adversary as a cat plays with a mouse, first feigning weakness and immobility, and then suddenly pouncing upon him.] 23.  If he is taking his ease, give him no rest. [This is probably the meaning though Mei Yao-ch'en has the note: 'while we are taking our ease, wait for the enemy to tire himself out.' The YU LAN has 'Lure him on and tire him out.'] If his forces are united, separate them. [Less plausible is the interpretation favored by most of the commentators: 'If sovereign and subject are in accord, put division between them.'] 24.  Attack him where he is unprepared, appear where you are not expected. 25.  These military devices, leading to victory, must not be divulged beforehand. 26.  Now the general who wins a battle makes many calculations in his temple ere the battle is fought. [Chang Yu tells us that in ancient times it was customary for a temple to be set apart for the use of a general who was about to take the field, in order that he might there elaborate his plan of campaign.] The general who loses a battle makes but few calculations beforehand. Thus do many calculations lead to victory, and few calculations to defeat: how much more no calculation at all! It is by attention to this point that I can foresee who is likely to win or lose." -Sun Tzu
"Attack by Stratagem" -Sun Tzu
"In a similar way, The Art of War pinpoints anger and greed as fundamental causes of defeat." -Sun Tzu
"5,6. The Moral Law causes the people to be in complete accord with their ruler, so that they will follow him regardless of their lives, undismayed by any danger." -Sun Tzu
"One cat at the hole, and ten thousand mice dare not come out; one tiger in the valley, and ten thousand deer cannot pass through." -Sun Tzu
"[T]o fight and conquer in all your battles is not supreme excellence; supreme excellence consists in breaking the enemy's resistance without fighting." -Sun Tzu
"The difficulty of tactical maneuvering consists in turning the devious into the direct, and misfortune into gain." -Sun Tzu
"The only chance of life lies in giving up all hope of it." -Sun Tzu
"Put them in a spot where they have no place to go, and they will die before fleeing." -Sun Tzu
"provisions" -Sun Tzu
"Life and death are of supreme importance. Time passes swiftly by and opportunity is lost. Each of us should strive to awaken, awaken. Awaken! Take heed. Do not squander your life." -Sun Tzu
"If your opponent is of choleric temper, seek to irritate him. Pretend to be weak, that he may grow arrogant." -Sun Tzu
"A clever general, therefore, avoids an army when its spirit is keen, but attacks it when it is sluggish and inclined to return. This is the art of studying moods." -Sun Tzu
"Violent language and driving forward as if to the attack are signs that he will retreat." -Sun Tzu
"Do not press a desperate enemy." -Sun Tzu
"He who wishes to fight must first count the cost," -Sun Tzu
"Cien vitorias en cien batallas no es la mayor habilidad. Someter al ejército de los otros sin batalla es la mayor habilidad." -Sun Tzu
"The spot where we intend to fight must not be made known; for then the enemy will have to prepare against a possible attack at several different points; and his forces being thus distributed in many directions, the numbers we shall have to face at any given point will be proportionately few." -Sun Tzu
"It is only one who is thoroughly acquainted with the evils of war that can thoroughly understand the profitable way of carrying it on." -Sun Tzu
"7. Hence in the wise leader's plans, considerations of advantage and of disadvantage will be blended together." -Sun Tzu
"The general who advances without coveting fame and retreats without fearing disgrace, whose only thought is to protect his country and do good service for his sovereign, is the jewel of the kingdom. Regard your soldiers as your children, and they will follow you into the deepest valleys; look upon them as your own beloved sons, and they will stand by you even unto death." -Sun Tzu
"The general, unable to control his irritation, will launch his men to the assault like swarming ants, with the result that one-third of his men are slain, while the town still remains untaken. Such are the disastrous effects of a siege." -Sun Tzu
"siege" -Sun Tzu
"There is no instance of a country having benefited from prolonged warfare." -Sun Tzu
"[Once war is declared, he will not waste precious time in waiting for reinforcements, nor will he return his army back for fresh supplies, but crosses the enemy's frontier without delay." -Sun Tzu
"There are three avenues of opportunity: events, trends, and conditions. When opportunities occur through events but you are unable to respond, you are not smart. When opportunities become active through a trend and yet you cannot make plans, you are not wise. When opportunities emerge through conditions but you cannot act on them, you are not bold." -Sun Tzu
"To prevent the enemy from fathoming one's intentions is of the first importance." -Sun Tzu
"Hence the saying: If you know the enemy and know yourself, you need not fear the result of a hundred battles. If you know yourself but not the enemy, for every victory gained you will also suffer a defeat. If you know neither the enemy nor yourself, you will succumb in every battle." -Sun Tzu
"5,6. The Moral Law causes the people to be in complete accord with their ruler, so that they will follow him regardless of their lives, undismayed by any danger.Excerpt From: Sunzi. 'The Art of War.' iBooks. This material may be protected by copyright." -Sun Tzu
"III. ATTACK BY STRATAGEM 1. Sun Tzu said: In the practical art of war, the best thing of all is to take the enemy's country whole and intact; to shatter and destroy it is not so good. So, too, it is better to recapture an army entire than to destroy it, to capture a regiment, a detachment or a company entire than to destroy them. 2. Hence to fight and conquer in all your battles is not supreme excellence; supreme excellence consists in breaking the enemy's resistance without fighting." -Sun Tzu
"About Sun Tzu himself this is all that Ssu-ma Ch`ien has to tell us in this chapter. But he proceeds to give a biography of his descendant, Sun Pin, born about a hundred years after his famous ancestor's death, and also the outstanding military genius of his time." -Sun Tzu
"You must be swift as the wind, dense as the forest, rapacious as fire, steadfast like a mountain, mysterious as night and mighty as thunder." -Sun Tzu
"Neither is it the acme of excellence if you fight and conquer and the whole Empire says, 'Well done!" -Sun Tzu
"17.  Thus we may know that there are five essentials for victory: (1) He will win who knows when to fight and when not to fight. [Chang Yu says: If he can fight, he advances and takes the offensive; if he cannot fight, he retreats and remains on the defensive. He will invariably conquer who knows whether it is right to take the offensive or the defensive.] (2) He will win who knows how to handle both superior and inferior forces. [This is not merely the general's ability to estimate numbers correctly, as Li Ch'uan and others make out. Chang Yu expounds the saying more satisfactorily: 'By applying the art of war, it is possible with a lesser force to defeat a greater, and vice versa. The secret lies in an eye for locality, and in not letting the right moment slip. Thus Wu Tzu says: ‘With a superior force, make for easy ground; with an inferior one, make for difficult ground.''] (3) He will win whose army is animated by the same spirit throughout all its ranks. (4) He will win who, prepared himself, waits to take the enemy unprepared. (5) He will win who has military capacity and is not interfered with by the sovereign. [Tu Yu quotes Wang Tzu as saying: 'It is the sovereign's function to give broad instructions, but to decide on battle it is the function of the general.' It is needless to dilate on the military disasters which have been caused by undue interference with operations in the field on the part of the home government. Napoleon undoubtedly owed much of his extraordinary success to the fact that he was not hampered by central authority.] 18.  Hence the saying: If you know the enemy and know yourself, you need not fear the result of a hundred battles. If you know yourself but not the enemy, for every victory gained you will also suffer a defeat." -Sun Tzu
"Those skilled in warfare move the enemy, and are not moved by the enemy." -Sun Tzu
"When strong, appear weak. Brave, appear fearful. Orderly, appear chaotic. Full, appear empty. Wise, appear foolish. Many, appear to be few. Advancing, appear to retreat. Moving quickly, appear to be slow. Taking, appear to leave. In one place, appear to be in another." -Sun Tzu
"from the ancient Chinese commentators found in the Giles edition. Of these four, Giles' 1910 edition is the most scholarly and presents the reader an incredible amount of information concerning Sun Tzu's text, much more than any other translation. The Giles' edition of the ART OF WAR, as stated above, was a scholarly work. Dr. Giles was a leading sinologue at the time and an assistant in the Department" -Sun Tzu
"To lift an autumn hair is no sign of great strength;to see the sun and moon is no sign of sharp sight;to hear the noise of thunder is no sign of a quick ear.What the ancients called a clever fighter isone who not only wins,but excels in winning with ease.Hence his victories bring him neitherreputation for wisdomnor credit for courage." -Sun Tzu
"There are not more than five musical notes, yet the combination of these five give rise to more melodies that can ever be heard." -Sun Tzu
"The PEOPLE being regarded as the essential part of the State, and FOOD as the people's heaven, is it not right that those in authority should value and be careful of both?']" -Sun Tzu
"Plan for what is difficult while it is easy, do what is great while it is small. The most difficult things in the world must be done while they are still easy, the greatest things in the world must be done while they are still small. For this reason sages never do what is great, and this is why they can achieve that greatness." -Sun Tzu
"practise" -Sun Tzu
"Thus, though we have heard of stupid haste in war, cleverness has never been seen associated with long delays. In all history, there is no instance of a country having benefited from prolonged warfare." -Sun Tzu
"Perhaps the most foundational of these insights is the importance of maintaining an objective emotional detachment when calculating your position relative to your adversary's. Being ruled by your emotions, exaggerating your strengths, denying your weaknesses, and wishful thinking can only lead to catastrophe. But maintaining your impartiality will allow you to see your circumstances with clarity and will provide opportunities to make sound decisions and respond to changing circumstances appropriately." -Sun Tzu
"Accordingly, he had the two leaders beheaded, and straightway installed the pair next in order as leaders in their place. When this had been done, the drum was sounded for the drill once more; and the girls went through all the evolutions, turning to the right or to the left, marching ahead or wheeling back, kneeling or standing, with perfect accuracy and precision, not venturing to utter a sound. Then Sun Tzu sent a messenger to the King saying: 'Your soldiers, Sire, are now properly drilled and disciplined, and ready for your majesty's inspection. They can be put to any use that their sovereign may desire; bid them go through fire and water, and they will not disobey." -Sun Tzu
"Again the girls assented. The words of command having been thus explained, he set up the halberds and battle-axes in order to begin the drill. Then, to the sound of drums, he gave the order 'Right turn.' But the girls only burst out laughing. Sun Tzu said: 'If words of command are not clear and distinct, if orders are not thoroughly understood, then the general is to blame." -Sun Tzu
"to blame." -Sun Tzu
"If you know the enemy and know yourself, you need not fear the result of a hundred battles. If you know yourself but not the enemy, for every victory gained you will also suffer a defeat." -Sun Tzu
"Leadership is a matter of intelligence, trustworthiness, humaneness, courage, and sternness." -Sun Tzu
"There has never been a protracted war from which a country has benefited . . . What is essential in war is victory, not prolonged operations." -Sun Tzu
"Know the enemy, know yourself and victory is never in doubt, not in a hundred battles." -Sun Tzu
"Again, if the campaign is protracted, the resources of the State will not be equal to the strain." -Sun Tzu
"These are: (1) the Moral Law; (2) Heaven; (3) Earth; (4) the Commander; (5) method and discipline." -Sun Tzu
"The secret of getting successful work out of your trained men lies in one nutshell--in the clearness of the instructions they receive." -Sun Tzu
"So a military force has no constant formation, water has no constant shape: the ability to gain victory by changing and adapting according to the opponent is called genius." -Sun Tzu
"If he is secure at all points, be prepared for him. If he is in superior strength, evade him." -Sun Tzu
"(1) He will win who knows when to fight and when not to fight. (2) He will win who knows how to handle both superior and inferior forces. (3) He will win whose army is animated by the same spirit throughout all its ranks. (4) He will win who, prepared himself, waits to take the enemy unprepared. (5) He will win who has military capacity and is not interfered with by the sovereign. 18. Hence the saying: If you know the enemy and know yourself, you need not fear the result of a hundred battles. If you know yourself but not the enemy, for every victory gained you will also suffer a defeat. If you know neither the enemy nor yourself, you will succumb in every battle." -Sun Tzu
"The Way means inducing the people to have the same aim as the leadership," -Sun Tzu
"Asked if an army can be made to imitate the SHUAI-JAN, I should answer, Yes. For the men of Wu and the men of Yueh are enemies; yet if they are crossing a river in the same boat and are caught by a storm, they will come to each other's assistance just as the left hand helps the right." -Sun Tzu
"Invincibility is in oneself, vulnerability in the opponent." -Sun Tzu
"The difficulty of tactical maneuvering consists in turning the devious into the direct, and misfortune into gain. [This sentence contains one of those highly condensed and somewhat enigmatical expressions of which Sun Tzu is so fond. This is how it is explained by Ts'ao Kung: 'Make it appear that you are a long way off, then cover the distance rapidly and arrive on the scene before your opponent.' Tu Mu says: 'Hoodwink the enemy, so that he may be remiss and leisurely while you are dashing along with utmost speed.' Ho Shih gives a slightly different turn: 'Although you may have difficult ground to traverse and natural obstacles to encounter this is a drawback which can be turned into actual advantage by celerity of movement.' Signal examples of this saying are afforded by the two famous passages across the Alps--that of Hannibal, which laid Italy at his mercy, and that of Napoleon two thousand years later, which resulted in the great victory of Marengo.] 4.    Thus, to take a long and circuitous route, after enticing the enemy out of the way, and though starting after him, to contrive to reach the goal before him, shows knowledge of the artifice of DEVIATION." -Sun Tzu
"Be extremely subtle, even to the point of formlessness. Be extremely mysterious, even to the point of soundlessness. Thereby you can be the director of the opponent's fate." -Sun Tzu
"If you wish to feign confusion in order to lure the enemy on, you must first have perfect discipline; if you wish to display timidity in order to entrap the enemy, you must have extreme courage; if you wish to parade your weakness in order to make the enemy over-confident, you must have exceeding strength.'] 18.  Hiding order beneath the cloak of disorder is simply a question of subdivision; [See supra, ss. 1.] concealing courage under a show of timidity presupposes a fund of latent energy; [The commentators strongly understand a certain Chinese word here differently than anywhere else in this chapter. Thus Tu Mu says: 'seeing that we are favorably circumstanced and yet make no move, the enemy will believe that we are really afraid.'] masking strength with weakness is to be effected by tactical dispositions." -Sun Tzu
"Continuer la lutte lorsqu'on est victorieux, c'est aussi bien diminuer ses propres forces qu'affaiblir le gage exigé du vaincu. (notes de L. Nachin (1948) sur l'article II)" -Sun Tzu
"However, this translation is, in the words of Dr. Giles, 'excessively bad.' He goes further in this criticism: 'It is not merely a question of downright blunders, from which none can hope to be wholly exempt." -Sun Tzu
"bestowed" -Sun Tzu
"What enables the enlightened rulers and good generals to conquer the enemy at every move and achieve extraordinary success is foreknowledge." -Sun Tzu
"The Book of Army Management says: On the field of battle, the spoken word does not carry far enough: hence the institution of gongs and drums. Nor can ordinary objects be seen clearly enough: hence the institution of banners and flags." -Sun Tzu
"It is unlucky to be stubborn in the face of insurmountable odds" -Sun Tzu
"8.    Hence that general is skillful in attack whose opponent does not know what to defend; and he is skillful in defense whose opponent does not know what to attack. [An aphorism which puts the whole art of war in a nutshell.]" -Sun Tzu
"prohibit omens altogether. You can best predict your future by controlling it yourself, not by trusting luck or fate to control it." -Sun Tzu
"Soldiers must be first treated in the first instance with humanity, but kept under control by means of iron discipline." -Sun Tzu
"Anger may in time change to gladness; vexation may be succeeded by content. 21. But a kingdom that has once been destroyed can never come again into being; nor can the dead ever be brought back to life. 22. Hence the enlightened ruler is heedful, and the good general full of caution. This is the way to keep a country at peace and an army intact." -Sun Tzu
"Every animal with blood in its veins and horns on its head will fight when it is attacked." -Sun Tzu
"The whole secret lies in confusing the enemy, so that he cannot fathom our real intent.'' To put it perhaps a little more clearly: any attack or other operation is CHENG, on which the enemy has had his attention fixed; whereas that is CH'I,' which takes him by surprise or comes from an unexpected quarter. If the enemy perceives a movement which is meant to be CH'I,' it immediately becomes CHENG.'] 4.    That the impact of your army may be like a grindstone dashed against an egg-- this is effected by the science of weak points and strong. 5.    In all fighting, the direct method may be used for joining battle, but indirect methods will be needed in order to secure victory. [Chang Yu says: 'Steadily develop indirect tactics, either by pounding the enemy's flanks or falling on his rear.' A brilliant example of 'indirect tactics' which decided the fortunes of a campaign was Lord Roberts' night march round the Peiwar Kotal in the second Afghan war.76 6.    Indirect tactics, efficiently applied, are inexhausible as Heaven and Earth, unending as the flow of rivers and streams; like the sun and moon, they end but to begin anew; like the four seasons, they pass away to return once more. [Tu Yu and Chang Yu understand this of the permutations of CH'I and CHENG.' But at present Sun Tzu is not speaking of CHENG at all, unless, indeed, we suppose with Cheng Yu-hsien that a clause relating to it has fallen out of the text. Of course, as has already been pointed out, the two are so inextricably interwoven in all military operations, that they cannot really be considered apart. Here we simply have an expression, in figurative language, of the almost infinite resource of a great leader.] 7.    There are not more than five musical notes, yet the combinations of these five give rise to more melodies than can ever be heard. 8.    There are not more than five primary colors (blue, yellow, red, white, and black), yet in combination they produce more hues than can ever been seen. 9.    There are" -Sun Tzu
"he who knows when he can fight and when he cannot , will be victorious ." -Sun Tzu
"it is better to recapture an army entire than to destroy it, to capture a regiment, a detachment or a company entire than to destroy them." -Sun Tzu
"Traitez bien les prisonniers, nourissez-les comme vos propres soldats, afin qu'il se trouvent mieux chez vous qu'ils ne l'étaient dans leur propre camp ou dans leur patrie. (article II)" -Sun Tzu
"Rapidity is the essence of war: take advantage of the enemy's unreadiness, make your way by unexpected routes, and attack unguarded spots." -Sun Tzu
"[Li Ch'uan cites the case of Fu Chien, prince of Ch'in, who in 383 A.D. marched with a vast army against the Chin Emperor. When warned not to despise an enemy who could command the services of such men as Hsieh An and Huan Ch'ung, he boastfully replied: 'I have the population of eight provinces at my back, infantry and horsemen to the number of one million; why, they could dam up the Yangtsze River itself by merely throwing their whips into the stream. What danger have I to fear?' Nevertheless, his forces were soon after disastrously routed at the Fei River, and he was obliged to beat a hasty retreat.] If you know neither the enemy nor yourself, you will succumb in every battle. [Chang Yu said: 'Knowing the enemy enables you to take the offensive, knowing yourself enables you to stand on the defensive.' He adds: 'Attack is the secret of defense; defense is the planning of an attack.' It would be hard to find a better epitome of the root-principle of war.]" -Sun Tzu
"12.  If we do not wish to fight, we can prevent the enemy from engaging us even though the lines of our encampment be merely traced out on the ground. All we need do is to throw something odd and unaccountable in his way. [This extremely concise expression is intelligibly paraphrased by Chia Lin: 'even though we have constructed neither wall nor ditch.' Li Ch'uan says: 'we puzzle him by strange and unusual dispositions;' and Tu Mu finally clinches the meaning by three illustrative anecdotes--one of Chu-ko Liang, who when occupying Yang-p'ing and about to be attacked by Ssu-ma I, suddenly struck his colors, stopped the beating of the drums, and flung open the city gates, showing only a few men engaged in sweeping and sprinkling the ground. This unexpected proceeding had the intended effect; for Ssu-ma I, suspecting an ambush, actually drew off his army and retreated. What Sun Tzu is advocating here, therefore, is nothing more nor less than the timely use of 'bluff.']" -Sun Tzu
"When your strategy is deep and far-reaching, then what you gain by your calculations is much, so you can win before you even fight. When your strategic thinking is shallow and nearsighted, then what you gain by your calculations is little, so you lose before you do battle. Much strategy prevails over little strategy, so those with no strategy cannot but be defeated. Therefore it is said that victorious warriers win first and then go to war, while defeated warriors go to war first and then seek to win." -Sun Tzu
"15. Hence a wise general makes a point of foraging on the enemy. One cartload of the enemy's provisions is equivalent to twenty of one's own, and likewise a single picul of his provender is equivalent to twenty from one's own store." -Sun Tzu
"The host thus forming a single united body, is it impossible either for the brave to advance alone, or for the cowardly to retreat alone" -Sun Tzu
"17.  According as circumstances are favorable, one should modify one's plans. [Sun Tzu, as a practical soldier, will have none of the 'bookish theoric.' He cautions us here not to pin our faith to abstract principles; 'for,' as Chang Yu puts it, 'while the main laws of strategy can be stated clearly enough for the benefit of all and sundry, you must be guided by the actions of the enemy in attempting to secure a favorable position in actual warfare.' On the eve of the battle of Waterloo, Lord Uxbridge, commanding the cavalry, went to the Duke of Wellington in order to learn what his plans and calculations were for the morrow, because, as he explained, he might suddenly find himself Commander-in-chief and would be unable to frame new plans in a critical moment. The Duke listened quietly and then said: 'Who will attack the first tomorrow--I or Bonaparte?' 'Bonaparte,' replied Lord Uxbridge. 'Well,' continued the Duke, 'Bonaparte has not given me any idea of his projects; and as my plans will depend upon his, how can you expect me to tell you what mine are?'75] 18.  All warfare is based on deception. [The truth of this pithy and profound saying will be admitted by every soldier. Col. Henderson tells us that Wellington, great in so many military qualities, was especially distinguished by 'the extraordinary skill with which he concealed his movements and deceived both friend and foe.'] 19. " -Sun Tzu
"What Hurts the People There are five things that hurt the people: There are local officials who use public office for personal benefit, taking improper advantage of their authority, holding weapons in one hand and people's livelihood in the other, corrupting their offices, and bleeding the people. There are cases where serious offenses are given light penalties; there is inequality before the law, and the innocent are subjected to punishment, even execution. Sometimes serious crimes are pardoned, the strong are supported, and the weak are oppressed. Harsh penalties are applied, unjustly torturing people to get at facts. Sometimes there are officials who condone crime and vice, punishing those who protest against this, cutting off the avenues of appeal and hiding the truth, plundering and ruining lives, unjust and arbitrary. Sometimes there are senior officials who repeatedly change department heads so as to monopolize the government administration, favoring their friends and relatives while treating those they dislike with unjust harshness, oppressive in their actions, prejudiced and unruly. They also use taxation to reap profit, enriching themselves and their families by exactions and fraud. Sometimes local officials extensively tailor awards and fines, welfare projects, and general expenditures, arbitrarily determining prices and measures, with the result that people lose their jobs. These five things are harmful to the people, and anyone who does any of these should be dismissed from office." -Sun Tzu
"Their action and inaction are matters of strategy, and they cannot be pleased or angered." -Sun Tzu
"All warfare is based on deception. Therefore, when capable, pretend to be incapable; when active, inactive; when near, make the enemy believe that you are far away; when far away; that you are near." -Sun Tzu
"Therefore, the skillful commander imposes his will on the enemy by making the enemy come to him instead of being brought to the enemy." -Sun Tzu
"Using order to deal with the disorderly, using calm to deal with the clamorous, is mastering the heart." -Sun Tzu
"He will win who has military capacity and is not interfered with by the sovereign." -Sun Tzu
"practice dissimulation, and you will succeed." -Sun Tzu
"To see victory only when it is within the ken of the common herd is not the acme of excellence." -Sun Tzu
"Flexibility in our lives means having a fundamental ability to relate to any new environment and excel in it. Instead of fighting it, you greet it with open arms and observe it; instead of criticizing it, you caress it and understand it; instead of ignoring it, you make it yours and be one with it." -Sun Tzu
"The general who wins a battle makes many calculations in his temple before the battle is fought. The general who loses a battle makes but few calculations beforehand." -Sun Tzu
"Thus the good fighter is able to secure himself against defeat, but cannot make certain of defeating the enemy. 4. Hence the saying: One may know how to conquer without being able to do it." -Sun Tzu
"18. A sovereign cannot raise an army because he is enraged, nor can a general fight because he is resentful. For while an angered man may again be happy, and resentful man again be pleased, a state that has perished cannot be restored, nor can the dead be brought back to life. 19. Therefore, the enlightened ruler is prudent and the good general is warned against rash action. Thus, the state is kept secure and the army preserved." -Sun Tzu
"Military formation is like water--the form of water is to avoid the high and go to the low, the form of a military force is to avoid the full and attack the empty; the flow of water is determined by the earth, the victory of a military force is determined by the opponent." -Sun Tzu
"King's favorite concubines at the head of each. He then bade them all take spears in their hands, and addressed them thus: 'I presume you know the difference between front and back, right hand and left hand?" -Sun Tzu
"War is like a fire - if you do not put it out, it will burn itself out." -Sun Tzu
"Simulated disorder postulates perfect discipline; simulated fear postulates courage; simulated weakness postulates strength." -Sun Tzu
"- هاجم عدوك حين تعرض عليه السلم. وتحاشاه حين يتوقع منك الهجوم." -Sun Tzu
"Do not pursue an enemy who simulates flight; do not attack soldiers whose temper is keen." -Sun Tzu
"I have three treasures that I keep and prize: one is kindness, second is frugality, and third is not presuming to take precedence over others. By kindness one can be brave, by frugality one can reach out, and by not presuming to take precedence one can survive effectively. If one gives up kindness and courage, gives up frugality and breadth, and gives up humility for aggressiveness, one will die. The exercise of kindness in battle leads to victory, the exercise of kindness in defense leads to security." -Sun Tzu
"[The five cardinal virtues of the Chinese are (1) humanity or benevolence; (2) uprightness of mind; (3) self-respect, self- control, or 'proper feeling;' (4) wisdom; (5) sincerity or good faith." -Sun Tzu
"If equally matched, we can offer battle; if slightly inferior in numbers, we can avoid the enemy; if quite unequal in every way, we can flee from him." -Sun Tzu
"In raiding and plundering be like fire, is immovability like a mountain." -Sun Tzu
"besiege" -Sun Tzu
"Now in order to kill the enemy, our men must be roused to anger; that there may be advantage from defeating the enemy, they must have their rewards. [Tu Mu says: 'Rewards" -Sun Tzu
"1. Sun Tzu said: The art of war recognizes nine varieties of ground: (1) Dispersive ground; (2) Facile ground; (3) Contentious ground; (4) Open ground; (5) Ground of intersecting highways; (6) Serious ground; (7) Difficult ground; (8) Hemmed-in ground; (9) Desperate ground." -Sun Tzu
"Master Sun So it is said that if you know others and know yourself, you will not be imperiled in a hundred battles; if you do not know others but know yourself, you win one and lose one; if you do not know others and do not know yourself, you will be imperiled in every single battle." -Sun Tzu
"Hence to fight and conquer in all your battles is not supreme excellence; supreme excellence consists in breaking the enemy's resistance without fighting. 3." -Sun Tzu
"EARTH comprises distances, great and small; danger and security; open ground and narrow passes; the chances of life and death." -Sun Tzu
"Without constant practice, the officers will be nervous and undecided when mustering for battle; without constant practice, the general will be wavering and irresolute when the crisis is at hand.']" -Sun Tzu
"There is no instance of a country having benefited from prolonged warfare. 7. It is only one who is thoroughly acquainted with the evils of war can thoroughly understand the profitable way of carrying it on." -Sun Tzu
"Those who are able to adapt and change in accord with the enemy and achieve victory are called divine." -Sun Tzu
"[The Chinese here is tricky and a certain key word in the context it is used defies the best efforts of the translator. Tu Mu defines this word as 'the measurement or estimation of distance.' But this meaning does not quite fit the illustrative simile in ss. 15. Applying this definition to the falcon, it seems to me to denote that instinct of SELF RESTRAINT which keeps the bird from swooping on its quarry until the right moment, together with the power of judging when the right moment has arrived. The analogous quality in soldiers is the highly important one of being able to reserve their fire until the very instant at which it will be most effective. When the 'Victory' went into action at Trafalgar at hardly more than drifting pace, she was for several minutes exposed to a storm of shot and shell before replying with a single gun. Nelson coolly waited until he was within close range, when the broadside he brought to bear worked fearful havoc on the enemy's nearest ships.] 14.  Therefore the good fighter will be terrible in his onset, and prompt in his decision. [The word 'decision' would have reference to the measurement of distance mentioned above, letting the enemy get near before striking. But I cannot help thinking that Sun Tzu meant to use the word in a figurative sense comparable to our own idiom 'short and sharp.' Cf. Wang Hsi's note, which after describing the falcon's mode of attack, proceeds: 'This is just how the ‘psychological moment' should be seized in war.']" -Sun Tzu
"8.    The skillful soldier does not raise a second levy, neither are his supply-wagons loaded more than twice. [Once war is declared, he will" -Sun Tzu
"[Chang Yu relates the following anecdote of Kao Tsu, the first Han Emperor: 'Wishing to crush the Hsiung-nu, he sent out spies to report on their condition. But the Hsiung-nu, forewarned, carefully concealed all their able-bodied men and well-fed horses, and only allowed infirm soldiers and emaciated cattle to be seen. The result was that spies one and all recommended the Emperor to deliver his attack. Lou Ching alone opposed them, saying: 'When two countries go to war, they are naturally inclined to make an ostentatious display of their strength. Yet our spies have seen nothing but old age and infirmity. This is surely some ruse on the part of the enemy, and it would be unwise for us to attack.' The Emperor, however, disregarding this advice, fell into the trap and found himself surrounded at Po-teng.'] 19.  Thus one who is skillful at keeping the enemy on the move maintains deceitful appearances, according to which the enemy will act. [Ts'ao Kung's note is 'Make a display of weakness and want.' Tu Mu says: 'If our force happens to be superior to the enemy's, weakness may be simulated in order to lure him on; but if inferior, he must be led to believe that we are strong, in order that he may keep off. In fact, all the enemy's movements should be determined by the signs that we choose to give him.' Note the following anecdote of Sun Pin, a descendent of Sun Wu: In 341 B.C., the Ch'i State being at war with Wei, sent T'ien Chi and Sun Pin against the general P'ang Chuan, who happened to be a deadly personal enemy of the later. Sun Pin said: 'The Ch'i State has a reputation for cowardice, and therefore our adversary despises us. Let us turn this circumstance to account.' Accordingly, when the army had crossed the border into Wei territory, he gave orders to show 100,000 fires on the first night, 50,000 on the next, and the night after only 20,000. P'ang Chuan pursued them hotly, saying to himself: 'I knew these men of Ch'i were cowards: their numbers have already fallen away by more than half.' In his retreat, Sun Pin came to a narrow defile, with he calculated that his pursuers would reach after dark. Here he had a tree stripped of its bark, and inscribed upon it the words: 'Under this tree shall P'ang Chuan die.' Then, as night began to fall, he placed a strong body of archers in ambush near by, with orders to shoot directly they saw a light. Later on, P'ang Chuan arrived at the spot, and noticing the tree, struck a light in order to read what was written on it. His body was immediately riddled by a volley of arrows, and his whole army thrown into confusion. [The above is Tu Mu's version of the story; the SHIH CHI, less dramatically but probably with more historical truth, makes P'ang Chuan cut his own throat with an exclamation of despair, after the rout of his army.] ] He sacrifices something, that the enemy may snatch at it. 20.  By holding out baits, he keeps him on the march; then with a body of picked men he lies in wait for him. [With an emendation suggested by Li Ching, this then reads, 'He lies in wait with the main body of his troops.'] 21.  The clever combatant looks to the effect of combined energy, and does not require too much from individuals." -Sun Tzu
"The victorious army is victorious first and seeks battle later; the defeated army seeks battle first and seeks victory later." -Sun Tzu
"When you start a fire, be to windward of it. Do not attack from the leeward." -Sun Tzu
"Every battle is won before it is fought." -Sun Tzu
"see the sun and moon is no sign of sharp sight; to hear the noise of thunder is no sign of a quick ear." -Sun Tzu
"When the speed of rushing water reaches the point where it can move boulders, this is the force of momentum. When the speed of a hawk is such that it can strike and kill, this is precision. So it is with skillful warriors--their force is swift, their precision is close. Their force is like drawing a catapult, their precision is like releasing the trigger." -Sun Tzu
"Those who win every battle are not really skillful--those who render others' armies helpless without fighting are the best of all." -Sun Tzu
"28.  Do not repeat the tactics which have gained you one victory, but let your methods be regulated by the infinite variety of circumstances. [As Wang Hsi sagely remarks: 'There is but one root-principle underlying victory, but the tactics which lead up to it are infinite in number.' With this compare Col. Henderson: 'The rules of strategy are few and simple. They may be learned in a week. They may be taught by familiar illustrations or a dozen diagrams. But such knowledge will no more teach a man to lead an army like Napoleon than a knowledge of grammar will teach him to write like Gibbon.'] 29.  Military tactics are like unto water; for water in its natural course runs away from high places and hastens downwards. 30.  So in war, the way is to avoid what is strong and to strike at what is weak. [Like water, taking the line of least resistance.] 31.  Water shapes its course according to the nature of the ground over which it flows; the soldier works out his victory in relation to the foe whom he is facing. 32.  Therefore, just as water retains no constant shape, so in warfare there are no constant conditions. 33.  He who can modify his tactics in relation to his opponent and thereby succeed in winning, may be called a heaven-born captain. 34.  The five elements (water, fire, wood, metal, earth) are not always equally predominant; [That is, as Wang Hsi says: 'they predominate alternately.'] the four seasons make way for each other in turn. [Literally, 'have no invariable seat.'] There are short days and long; the moon has its periods of waning and waxing. [Cf. V. ss. 6. The purport of the passage is simply to illustrate the want of fixity in war by the changes constantly taking place in Nature. The comparison is not very happy, however, because the regularity of the phenomena which Sun Tzu mentions is by no means paralleled in war.]" -Sun Tzu
"13.  He wins his battles by making no mistakes. [Ch'en Hao says: 'He plans no superfluous marches, he devises no futile attacks.' The connection of ideas is thus explained by Chang Yu: 'One who seeks to conquer by sheer strength, clever though he may be at winning pitched battles, is also liable on occasion to be vanquished; whereas he who can look into the future and discern conditions that are not yet manifest, will never make a blunder and therefore invariably win.'] Making no mistakes is what establishes the certainty of victory, for it means conquering an enemy that is already defeated. 14.  Hence the skillful fighter puts himself into a position which makes defeat impossible, and does not miss the moment for defeating the enemy. [A 'counsel of perfection' as Tu Mu truly observes. 'Position' need not be confined to the actual ground occupied by the troops. It includes all the arrangements and preparations which a wise general will make to increase the safety of his army.] 15.  Thus it is that in war the victorious strategist only seeks battle after the victory has been won, whereas he who is destined to defeat first fights and afterwards looks for victory. [Ho Shih thus expounds the paradox: 'In warfare, first lay plans which will ensure victory, and then lead your army to battle; if you will not begin with stratagem but rely on brute strength alone, victory will no longer be assured.'] 16.  The consummate leader cultivates the moral law, and strictly adheres to method and discipline; thus it is in his power to control success. 17.  In respect of military method, we have, firstly, Measurement; secondly, Estimation of quantity; thirdly, Calculation; fourthly, Balancing of chances; fifthly, Victory. 18.  Measurement owes its existence to Earth; Estimation of quantity to Measurement; Calculation to Estimation of quantity; Balancing of chances to Calculation; and Victory to Balancing of chances. [It is not easy to distinguish the four terms very clearly in the Chinese. The" -Sun Tzu
"42. If soldiers are punished before they have grown attached to you, they will not prove submissive; and, unless submissive, then will be practically useless. If, when the soldiers have become attached to you, punishments are not enforced, they will still be useless. 43. Therefore soldiers must be treated in the first instance with humanity, but kept under control by means of iron discipline. This is a certain road to victory. 44. If in training soldiers commands are habitually enforced, the army will be well-disciplined; if not, its discipline will be bad." -Sun Tzu
"Now, when your weapons are dulled, your ardor damped, your strength exhausted and your treasure spent, other chieftains will spring up to take advantage of your extremity. Then no man, however wise, will be able to avert the consequences that must ensue." -Sun Tzu
"A sovereign cannot raise an army because he is enraged, nor can a general fight because he is resentful. For while an angered many may again be happy, and a resentful man again be pleased, a state that has perished cannot be restored, nor can the dead be brought back to life.Therefore, the enlightened ruler is prudent and the good general is warned against rash action. Thus the state is kept secure and the army preserved." -Sun Tzu
"It is a matter of life and death, a road either to safety or to ruin. Hence it is a subject of inquiry which can on no account be neglected. 3.    The art of war, then, is governed by five constant factors, to be taken into account in one's deliberations, when seeking to determine the conditions obtaining in the field. 4.    These are: (1) The Moral Law; (2) Heaven; (3) Earth; (4) The Commander; (5) Method and discipline." -Sun Tzu
"while the main laws of strategy can be stated clearly enough for the benefit of all and sundry, you must be guided by the actions of the enemy in attempting to secure a favorable position in actual warfare." -Sun Tzu
"If rewards are immoderate, there will be expenditure that does not result in gratitude; if punishments are immoderate, there will be slaughter that does not result in awe." -Sun Tzu
"6.    There is no instance of a country having benefited from prolonged warfare. 7.    It is only one who is thoroughly acquainted with the evils of war that can thoroughly understand the profitable way of carrying it on. [That is, with rapidity. Only one who knows the disastrous effects of a long war can realize the supreme importance of rapidity in bringing it to a close. Only" -Sun Tzu
"Knowing the enemy enables you to take the offensive, knowing yourself enables you to stand on the defensive.' He adds: 'Attack is the secret of defense; defense is the planning of an attack.' It" -Sun Tzu
"an angry man can later become happy, a resentful man can become pleased, but a kingdom once destroyed can never be restored nor the dead brought back to life" -Sun Tzu
"When you go out the door, be as if you were seeing an enemy.' And Shi Li said, 'Be prepared, and you will not be defeated.' When" -Sun Tzu
"10.  In battle, there are not more than two methods of attack--the direct and the indirect; yet these two in combination give rise to an endless series of maneuvers. 11.  The direct and the indirect lead on to each other in turn. It is like moving in a circle--you never come to an end. Who can exhaust the possibilities of their combination? 12.  The onset of troops is like the rush of a torrent which will even roll stones along in its course. 13.  The quality of decision is like the well-timed swoop of a falcon which enables it to strike and destroy its victim. [The Chinese here is tricky and a certain key word in" -Sun Tzu
"La milicia es un Tao de engaños:De modo que cuando seas capaz, muestra incapacidad. Cuando seas activo, muestra inactividad.Cuando estés cerca, haz creer que estás lejos. Cuando estés lejos, haz creer que estás cerca.De modo que cuando el enemigo busque ventajas,los atraerás. Cuando se halle confundido, lo conquistarás. Cuando tenga consistencia, prepárate a enfrentarte a él. Cuando sea fuerte, evítalo. Cuando esté airado, acósalo. Atácale cuando no esté preparado.Surge allí donde no te espere." -Sun Tzu
"Let your rapidity be that of the wind, your compactness that of the forest.In raiding and plundering be like fire, in immovability like a mountain.Let your plans be dark and impenetrable as night, and when you move, fall like a thunderbolt." -Sun Tzu
"the Completer and Wu Wang all used spears and battle-axes in order to succor their generation. The SSU-MA FA says: 'If one man slay another of set purpose, he himself" -Sun Tzu
"The quality of decision is like the well-timed swoop of a falcon which enables it to strike and destroy its victim." -Sun Tzu
"Hence that general is skillful in attack whose opponent does not know what to defend; and he is skillful in defense whose opponent does not know what to attack." -Sun Tzu
"Therefore victory in war is not repetitious, but adapts its form endlessly." -Sun Tzu
"The art of war teaches us to rely not on the likelihood of the enemy's not coming, but on our own readiness to receive him; not" -Sun Tzu
"By discovering the enemy's dispositions and remaining invisible ourselves, we can keep our forces concentrated, while the enemy's must be divided." -Sun Tzu
"Chapter1Laying Plans" -Sun Tzu
"22. If your opponent is of choleric temper, seek to irritate him. Pretend to be weak, that he may grow arrogant." -Sun Tzu
"What the ancients called a skilful fighter is one who not only wins but wins with ease...He wins by making no mistakes. Making no mistakes means having already established the certainty of victory; conquering an enemy who is already defeated." -Sun Tzu
"• اتخاذك الوضع الدفاعي يشير إلى قوة غير كافية، بينما الهجوم يستلزم توفر القوة الزائدة." -Sun Tzu
"Sun Tzu: 'If words of command are not clear and distinct, if orders are not thoroughly understood, the general is to blame. But if his orders ARE clear, and the soldiers nevertheless disobey, then it is the fault of their officers." -Sun Tzu
"All warfare is based on deception. Hence, when able to attack, we must seem unable; when using our forces, we must seem inactive; when we are near, we must make the enemy believe we are far away; when far away, we must make him believe we are near." -Sun Tzu
"These are: (1) The Moral Law; (2) Heaven; (3) Earth; (4) The Commander; (5) Method and discipline." -Sun Tzu
"• القتال والانتصار في جميع المعارك ليس هو قمة المهارة، التفوق الأعظم هو كسر مقاومة العدو دون أي قتال." -Sun Tzu
"When Lionel Giles began his translation of Sun Tzu's ART OF WAR, the work was virtually unknown in Europe. Its introduction to Europe began in 1782 when a French Jesuit Father living in China, Joseph Amiot, acquired a copy of it, and translated it into French. It was not a good translation because, according to Dr. Giles, '[I]t contains a great deal that Sun Tzu did not write, and very little indeed of what he did.' The first translation into English was published in 1905 in Tokyo by Capt. E. F. Calthrop, R.F.A. However, this translation is, in the words of Dr. Giles, 'excessively bad.' He goes further in this criticism: 'It is not merely a question of downright blunders, from which none can hope to be wholly exempt." -Sun Tzu
"Sun Tzu said: The control of a large force is the same in principle as the control of a few men: it is merely a question of dividing up their numbers." -Sun Tzu
"Military weapons are the means used by the Sage to punish violence and cruelty, to give peace to troublous times, to remove difficulties and dangers, and to succor those who are in peril. Every" -Sun Tzu
"It is best to win without fighting." -Sun Tzu
"Warfare is the Way of deception." -Sun Tzu
"3.    Thus the highest form of generalship is to balk the enemy's plans; [Perhaps the word 'balk' falls short of expressing the full force of the Chinese word, which implies not an attitude of defense, whereby one might be content to foil the enemy's stratagems one after another, but an active policy of counter-attack. Ho Shih puts this very clearly in his note: 'When the enemy has made a plan of attack against us, we must anticipate him by delivering our own attack first.'] the next best is to prevent the junction of the enemy's forces; [Isolating him from his allies. We must not forget that Sun Tzu, in speaking of hostilities, always has in mind the numerous states or principalities into which the China of his day was split up.] the next in order is to attack the enemy's army in the field; [When he is already at full strength.] and the worst policy of all is to besiege walled cities. 4.    The rule is, not to besiege walled cities if it can possibly be avoided." -Sun Tzu
"There are only five primary colours,13 but when blended, their shades and hues are limitless." -Sun Tzu
"passivity means waiting for an opportunity," -Sun Tzu
"Employing the officers of his army without discrimination, through ignorance of the military principle of adaptation to circumstances. This shakes the confidence of the soldiers." -Sun Tzu
"Those who were called skillful leaders of old knew how to drive a wedge between the enemy's front and rear; [More literally, 'cause the front and rear to lose touch with each other.'] to prevent co-operation between his large and small divisions; to hinder the good troops from rescuing the bad, the officers from rallying their men. 16. When the enemy's men were united, they managed to keep them in disorder." -Sun Tzu
"Keep your friends close, your enemies even closer" -Sun Tzu
"MASTER SUN There are only five notes in the musical scale, but their variations are so many that they cannot all be heard. There are only five basic colors, but their variations are so many that they cannot all be seen. There are only five basic flavors, but their variations are so many that they cannot all be tasted. There are only two kinds of charge in battle, the unorthodox surprise attack and the orthodox direct attack, but variations of the unorthodox and the orthodox are endless. The unorthodox and the orthodox give rise to each other, like a beginningless circle--who could exhaust them? M" -Sun Tzu
"Regard your soldiers as your children, and they will follow you into the deepest valleys; look on them as your own beloved sons, and they will stand by you even unto death." -Sun Tzu
"Hence a wise general makes a point of foraging on the enemy." -Sun Tzu
"A general who advances without thought of personal glory, and retreats without a care for disgrace, who thinks only of protecting the people and benefiting his ruler - such a man is a treasure beyond price to his country." -Sun Tzu
"If your opponent is of choleric temper, seek to irritate him. Pretend to be weak, that he may grow arrogant. 23." -Sun Tzu
"Utilizar el orden para enfrentarse al desorden, utilizar la calma para enfrentarse con los que se agitan, esto es dominar el corazón." -Sun Tzu
"Confront your soldiers with the deed itself; never let them know your design. When the outlook is bright, bring it before their eyes; but tell them nothing when the situation is gloomy." -Sun Tzu
"Hence it is only the enlightened ruler and the wise general who will use the highest intelligence of the army for purposes of spying and thereby they achieve great results. Spies are a most important element in water, because on them depends an army's ability to move." -Sun Tzu
"The clever combatant looks to the effect of combined energy, and does not require too much from individuals. Hence his ability to pick out the right men and to utilise combined energy." -Sun Tzu
"Ban all omen-taking and superstitious practices so that death is all they have to worry about." -Sun Tzu
"Where unity is missing between individuals, the resolution may be simple, but where diversity of interest is dictated by the underlying social, economic, political, or other structure of an interaction or relation, the problem of consensus and cooperation can become correspondingly complex." -Sun Tzu
"In all fighting, the direct method may be used for joining battle, but indirect methods will be needed in order to secure victory." -Sun Tzu
"Simulated disorder postulates perfect discipline, simulated fear postulates courage; simulated weakness postulates strength." -Sun Tzu
"The reason why Sun Tzu at the head of 30,000 men beat Ch'u with 200,000 is that the latter were undisciplined.' Teng" -Sun Tzu
"2. To secure ourselves against defeat lies in our own hands, but the opportunity of defeating the enemy is provided by the enemy himself." -Sun Tzu
"If he is taking his ease, give him no rest. If his forces are united, separate them." -Sun Tzu
"Master Sun A military operation involves deception. Even though you are competent, appear to be incompetent. Though effective, appear to be ineffective." -Sun Tzu
"[The superstitious, 'bound in to saucy doubts and fears,' degenerate into cowards and 'die many times before their deaths." -Sun Tzu
"So morning energy is keen, midday energy slumps, evening energy recedes--therefore those skilled in use of arms avoid the keen energy and strike the slumping and receding. These are those who master energy." -Sun Tzu
"Invincible is the soldier who hath his desire and returneth homewards.' A" -Sun Tzu
"He will win who knows when to fight and when not to fight. (2)" -Sun Tzu
"Attack is the secret of defense; defense is the planning of an attack.' It" -Sun Tzu
"If words of command are not clear and distinct, if orders are not thoroughly understood, the general is to blame. But if his orders are clear, and the soldiers nevertheless disobey, then it is the fault of their officers." -Sun Tzu
"If you know the enemy and know yourself, you need not fear the result of a hundred battles. If you know yourself but not the enemy, for every victory gained you will also suffer a defeat. If you know neither the enemy nor yourself, you will succumb in every battle.     IV." -Sun Tzu
"The general is the prop Of the nation. When the prop is solid, The nation is strong. When the prop is flawed, The nation is weak." -Sun Tzu
"All warfare is based on deception. Therefore, when capable, feign incapacity; when active, inactivity. When near, make it appear that you are far away; when far away, that you are near. Offer the enemy a bait to lure him; feign disorder and strike him. When he concentrates, prepare against him; where he is strong, avoid him. Anger his general and confuse him. Pretend inferiority and encourage his arrogance. Keep him under a strain and wear him down. When he is united, divide him. Attack where he is unprepared; sally out when he does not expect you. These are the strategist's keys to victory. It is not possible to discuss them beforehand. now if the estimates made in the temple before hostilities indicate victory it is because calculations show one's strength to be superior to that of his enemy; if they indicate defeat, it is because calculations show that one is inferior. With many calculations, one can win; with few one cannot. How much less chance of victory has one who makes none at all! By this means I examine the situation and the outcome will be clearly apparent." -Sun Tzu
"Las notas musicales son sólo cinco, pero sus melodías son tan numerosas que no podemos oírlas todas.Los colores primarios son sólo cinco, pero sus combinaciones son tan infinitas que no podemos verlas todas.Los gustos son sólo cinco, pero sus mezclas son tan variadas que no podemos saborearlas todas." -Sun Tzu
"Therefore, in your deliberations, when seeking to determine the military conditions, let them be made the basis of a comparison, in this wise: -- 12. (1) Which of the two sovereigns is imbued with the Moral law? (2) Which of the two generals has most ability? (3) With whom lie the advantages derived from Heaven and Earth? (4) On which side is discipline most rigorously enforced? (5) Which army is stronger? (6) On which side are officers and men more highly trained? (7) In which army is there the greater constancy both in reward and punishment? 13. By means of these seven considerations I can forecast victory or defeat." -Sun Tzu
"By METHOD AND DISCIPLINE are to be understood the marshaling of the army in its proper subdivisions, the graduations of rank among the officers, the maintenance of roads by which supplies may reach the army, and the control of military expenditure. 11.  These five heads should be familiar to every general: he who knows them will be victorious; he who knows them not will fail." -Sun Tzu
"First, measurement; second, quantity; third, calculation; fourth, comparison; and fifth, victory." -Sun Tzu
"Sun Tzu said: The control of a large force is the same principle as the control of a few men: it is merely a question of dividing up their numbers." -Sun Tzu
"With his forces intact he will dispute the mastery of the Empire, and thus, without losing a man, his triumph will be complete. This is the method of attacking by stratagem. 8." -Sun Tzu
"There are not more than five cardinal tastes (sour, acrid, salt, sweet, bitter), yet combinations of them yield more flavors than can ever be tasted." -Sun Tzu
"He wins his battles by making no mistakes. Making no mistakes is what establishes the certainty of victory, for it means conquering an enemy that is already defeated." -Sun Tzu
"Go forth armed without determining strategy, and you will destroy yourself in battle." -Sun Tzu
"If pacific negotiations are in progress, warlike preparations should have been made beforehand.' He rebuked and shamed the Marquis of Ch`i, who cowered under him and dared not proceed to violence. How can it be said that these two great Sages had no knowledge of military matters?" -Sun Tzu
"1.    Sun Tzu said: Whoever is first in the field and awaits the coming of the enemy, will be fresh for the fight; whoever is second in the field and has to hasten to battle will arrive exhausted. 2.    Therefore the clever combatant imposes his will on the enemy, but does not allow the enemy's will to be imposed on him. [One mark of a great soldier is that he fight on his own terms or fights not at all.77 ] 3.    By holding out advantages to him, he can cause the enemy to approach of his own accord; or, by inflicting damage, he can make it impossible for the enemy to draw near. [In the first case, he will entice him with a bait; in the second, he will strike at some important point which the enemy will have to defend.] 4.    If the enemy is taking his ease, he can harass him; [This passage may be cited as evidence against Mei Yao-Ch'en's interpretation of I. ss. 23.] if well supplied with food, he can starve him out; if quietly encamped, he can force him to move. 5.    Appear at points which the enemy must hasten to defend; march swiftly to places where you are not expected. 6.    An army may march great distances without distress, if it marches through country where the enemy is not. [Ts'ao Kung sums up very well: 'Emerge from the void [q.d. like 'a bolt from the blue'], strike at vulnerable points, shun places that are defended, attack in unexpected quarters.'] 7.    You can be sure of succeeding in your attacks if you only attack places which are undefended. [Wang Hsi explains 'undefended places' as 'weak points; that is to say, where the general is lacking in capacity, or the soldiers in spirit; where the walls are not strong enough, or the precautions not strict enough; where relief comes too late, or provisions are too scanty, or the defenders are variance amongst themselves.'] You can ensure the safety of your defense if you only hold positions that cannot be attacked. [I.e., where there are none of the weak points mentioned above. There is rather a nice point involved in the interpretation of this later clause. Tu" -Sun Tzu
"It is a doctrine of war not to assume the enemy will not come, but rather to rely on one's readiness to meet him; not to presume that he will not attack, but rather to make one's self invincible." -Sun Tzu
"One who is skillful at keeping the enemy on the move maintains deceitful appearances, according to which the enemy will act. He sacrifices something, that the enemy may snatch at it." -Sun Tzu
"Victory is reserved for those who are willing to pay its price." -Sun Tzu
"Thus the energy developed by good fighting men isas the momentum of a round stone rolled down amountain thousands of feet in height. So much on thesubject of energy." -Sun Tzu
"8.    EARTH comprises distances, great and small; danger and security; open ground and narrow passes; the chances of life and death. 9.    The COMMANDER stands for the virtues of wisdom, sincerely, benevolence, courage and strictness." -Sun Tzu
"It is essential to seek out enemy agents who have come to conduct espionage against you and to bribe them to serve you. Give them instructions and care for them. Thus doubled agents are recruited and used. It is by means of the doubled agent that native and inside agents can be recruited and employed. This is because the doubled agent knows those of his own countrymen who are covetous as well as those officials who have been remiss in office. These we can tempt into our service.And it is by this means that the expendable agent, armed with false information, can be sent to convey it to the enemy. It is because doubled agents know in what respects the enemy can be deceived that expendable agents may be sent to convey false information. It is by this means also that living agents can be used at appropriate times. The sovereign must have full knowledge of the activities of the five sorts of agents. This knowledge must come from the doubled agents, and therefore it is mandatory that they be treated with the utmost liberality.And therefore only the enlightened sovereign and the worthy general who are able to use the most intelligent people as agents are certain to achieve great things." -Sun Tzu
"If soldiers are punished before they have grown attached to you, they will not prove submissive; and, unless submissive, then will be practically useless. If, when the soldiers have become attached to you, punishments are not enforced, they will still be useless." -Sun Tzu
"Measurement owes its existence to Earth; Estimation of quantity to Measurement; Calculation to Estimation of quantity; Balancing of chances to Calculation; and Victory to Balancing of chances." -Sun Tzu
"He who knows when he can fight and when he cannot, will be victorious." -Sun Tzu
"Every kingdom divided against itself is laid to waste, and no city or house divided against itself will stand" -Sun Tzu
"El arte de la guerra se basa en el engaño" -Sun Tzu
"When you look into the signs of war, you find they are in the mind. When there is unexpressed anger in the heart, this is already war! Hateful looks and angry faces are war; boastful words and shoving matches are war. Exaggerated contention and aggressive combat are war." -Sun Tzu
"Now the general who wins a battle makes many calculations in his temple ere the battle is fought. The general who loses a battle makes but few calculations beforehand. Thus do many calculations lead to victory, and few calculations to defeat: how much more no calculation at all! It is by attention to this point that I can foresee who is likely to win or lose." -Sun Tzu
"The comparison is not very happy, however, because the regularity of the phenomena which Sun Tzu mentions is by no means paralleled in war.]" -Sun Tzu
"to be well-fed while the enemy is famished: -- this is the art of husbanding one's strength." -Sun Tzu
"Thus,  what enables the wise sovereign and the good general to strike and conquer, and achieve things beyond the reach of ordinary men, is FOREKNOWLEDGE." -Sun Tzu
"marshes" -Sun Tzu
"when able to attack, we must seem unable; when using our forces, we must seem inactive; when we are near, we must make the enemy believe we are far away; when far away, we must make him believe we are near." -Sun Tzu
"5, 6. The MORAL LAW causes the people to be in complete accord with their ruler, so that they will follow him regardless of their lives, undismayed by any danger." -Sun Tzu
"Sun Tzu said: 'If words of command are not clear and distinct, if orders are not thoroughly understood, then the general is to blame." -Sun Tzu
"Hostile armies may face each other for years, striving for the victory which is decided in a single day. This being so, to remain in ignorance of the enemy's condition simply because one grudges the outlay of a hundred ounces of silver in honors and emoluments, is the height of inhumanity." -Sun Tzu
"Victory in war is apparent to all, but the science of ensuring victory is a mysterious secret, generally unknown." -Sun Tzu
"Maneuvering with an army is advantageous; with an undisciplined multitude, most dangerous." -Sun Tzu
"A victorious army opposed to a routed one, is as a pound's weight placed in the scale against a single grain." -Sun Tzu
"The quality of decision is like the well-timed swoop of a falcon which enables it to strike and destroy its victim.Therefore the good fighter will be terrible in his onset, and prompt in his decision." -Sun Tzu
"Taoism has fostered both material and mental progress, both technological development and awareness of the potential dangers of that very development, always striving to encourage balance between the material and spiritual sides of humankind." -Sun Tzu
"16. While we keep away from such places, we should get the enemy to approach them; while we face them, we should let the enemy have them on his rear." -Sun Tzu
"A sovereign should never launch an army out of anger, a leader should never start a war out of wrath" -Sun Tzu
"He who does not know the evils of war cannot appreciate its benefits," -Sun Tzu
"Solving large, difficult problems may earn you a reputation for skillful negotiation, but Sun Tzu asserts that this supposed achievement is actually a form of failure, and having true wisdom means preventing difficult problems from arising in the first place. Ironically, this highest form of efficacy will often go unnoticed by many people, since the leader's work seems so effortless and subtle. This foresight may not earn you a great reputation, but Sun Tzu also believed that bravery and greatness involve shunning what other people think of you, both praise and criticism, and doing what you believe is the right thing. A brave person forgoes his or her own ego and well-being, and acts with neither fear of punishment nor expectation of reward." -Sun Tzu
"Находясь в порядке, ждут беспорядка; находясь в спокойствии, ждут волнений; это и есть управление сердцем." -Sun Tzu
"LI QUAN If they ply you with expensive gifts and sweet talk, they are up to something." -Sun Tzu
"Therefore the considerations of the intelligent always include both benefit and harm. As they consider benefit, their work can expand; as they consider harm, their troubles can be resolved." -Sun Tzu
"He wins his battles by making no mistakes." -Sun Tzu
"Every animal with blood in its veins and horns on its head will fight when it is attacked. How much more so will man, who carries in his breast the faculties of love and hatred, joy and anger! When he is pleased, a feeling of affection springs up within him; when angry, his poisoned sting is brought into play. That is the natural law which governs his being. . ." -Sun Tzu
"7. It is only one who is thoroughly acquainted with the evils of war that can thoroughly understand the profitable way of carrying it on." -Sun Tzu
"Having collected an army and concentrated his forces, he must blend and harmonize the different elements thereof before pitching his camp. ['Chang Yu says: 'the establishment of harmony and confidence between the higher and lower ranks before venturing into the field;" -Sun Tzu
"Hence to fight and conquer in all your battles is not supreme excellence; supreme excellence consists in breaking the enemy's resistance without fighting." -Sun Tzu
"La invencibilidad está en uno mismo, la vulnerabilidad en el adversario. Por esto, los guerreros expertos pueden ser invencibles, pero no pueden hacer que sus adversarios sean vulnerables." -Sun Tzu
"Война - это путь обмана. Поэтому, даже если [ты] способен,показывай противнику свою неспособность. Когда должен ввести в бойсвои силы, притворись бездеятельным. Когда [цель] близко, показывай,будто она далеко; когда же она действительн далеко, создавайвпечатление, что она близко. Изобрази выгоду, чтобы завлечь его. Сотвори беспорядок [в егосилах] и возьми его. Если он полон, приготовься; если он силен, избегай его. Если он в гневе, беспокой его; будь почтителен, чтобы он возомнил осебе. Если враг отдохнувший, заставь его напрячь силы. Если он объединен, разъедини его. Нападай там, где он не приготовился. Или вперед там, где он не ожидает. Таковы пути, которыми военные стратеги побеждают. Но о них нельзяговорить наперед." -Sun Tzu
"The factors in warfare are: First, measurement; second, quantity; third, calculation; fourth, comparison; and fifth, victory." -Sun Tzu
"Above the Fray, You Have No Fear Though an army encamp against me, my heart shall not fear; though war rise up against me, yet I will be confident." -Sun Tzu
"What is perhaps most characteristically Taoist about The Art of War in such a way as to recommend itself to the modern day is the manner in which power is continually tempered by a profound undercurrent of humanism." -Sun Tzu
"Sun Tzu said: We may distinguish six kinds of terrain, to wit: (1) Accessible ground; (2) Entangling ground;               (3) Temporizing ground;               (4) Narrow passes; (5) Precipitous heights; (6) Positions at a great distance from the enemy." -Sun Tzu
"Warfare is the Way of deception.13 Therefore, if able, appear unable; if active, appear not active; if near, appear far; if far, appear near. If they have advantage, entice them; if they are confused, take them; if they are substantial, prepare for them; if they are strong, avoid them; if they are angry, disturb them; if they are humble, make them haughty; if they are relaxed, toil them; if they are united, separate them. Attack where they are not prepared, go out to where they do not expect.14 This specialized warfare leads to victory, and may not be transmitted beforehand.15" -Sun Tzu
"How many times in your life could you have abated conflicts if you had taken the time to deliberate on your problems in quiet contemplation--for example, taking a quiet walk--to think about your capabilities and limitations, and the likely gains and losses of taking action? By removing yourself from the immediate, stressful situation, you also take out the emotion that often prompts you to make rash, thoughtless decisions. The" -Sun Tzu
"What then shall be said of those scholars of our time, blind to all great issues, and without any appreciation of relative values, who can only bark out their stale formulas about 'virtue' and 'civilization,' condemning the use of military weapons? They will surely bring our country to impotence and dishonor and the loss of her rightful heritage; or, at the very least, they will bring about invasion and rebellion, sacrifice of territory and general enfeeblement. Yet they obstinately refuse to modify the position they have taken up. The truth is that, just as in the family the teacher must not spare the rod, and punishments cannot be dispensed with in the State, so military chastisement can never be allowed to fall into abeyance in the Empire. All one can say is that this power will be exercised wisely by some, foolishly by others, and that among those who bear arms some will be loyal and others rebellious." -Sun Tzu
"De ahí el dicho: conoce al enemigo y conócete a ti mismo, y sobre tu victoria no caerán dudas; conoce el Cielo y la Tierra, y tu victoria estará asegurada del todo." -Sun Tzu
"16.  While heading the profit of my counsel, avail yourself also of any helpful circumstances over and beyond the ordinary rules. 17.  According as circumstances are favorable, one should modify one's plans." -Sun Tzu
"In battle, there are not more than two methods of attack--the direct and the indirect; yet these two in combination give rise to an endless series of maneuvers." -Sun Tzu
"The skilled can fill their people with energy to confront the emptiness of others, while the incompetent drain their people of energy in face of the fullness of others." -Sun Tzu
"If you govern a country by listening to the arguments of a multitude of people, the country will be in danger in no time at all. How do we know this is so? Lao-tzu emphasized flexibility, Confucius emphasized humaneness, Mo-tzu emphasized universality, the Keeper of the Pass emphasized purity, Lieh-tzu emphasized emptiness, Ch'en Ping emphasized equality, Yang Chu emphasized self, Sun Pin emphasized power, Wang Liao emphasized initiative, Ni Liang emphasized conformism. Using bells and drums is a means of unifying ears; making law and order uniform is a way of unifying minds. When the smart ones can't be clever and the stupid ones can't be clumsy, this is a means of unifying a mass." -Sun Tzu
"stupid haste is preferable to clever dilatoriness." -Sun Tzu
"Scouting," -Sun Tzu
"Ainsi, outre l'avantage que vous aurez de faire savoir promptement toutes vos volontés à votre armée entière dans le même moment, vous aurez encore celui de lasser votre ennemi, en le rendant attentif à tout ce qu'il croit que vous voulez entreprendre, de lui faire naître des doutes continuels sur la conduite que vous devez tenir, et de lui inspirer d'éternelles frayeurs." -Sun Tzu
"Si nous voulons que la gloire et les succès accompagnent nos armes, nous ne devons jamais perdre de vue : la doctrine, le temps, l'espace, le commandement, la discipline." -Sun Tzu
"It is not the best thing to win every battle one is engaged in; the best thing is to win without planning to win. This is perfect victory." -Sun Tzu
"• عمل القائد هو أن يبقى هادئاً فيضمن السرية، وأن يكون مستقيماً وعادلاً، فيضمن استقرار النظام العام." -Sun Tzu
"There are not more than five musical notes, yet thecombinations of these five give rise to more melodiesthan can ever be heard." -Sun Tzu
"If equally matched, we can offer battle; if slightly inferior in numbers, we can avoid the enemy; if quite unequal in every way, we can flee from him. Though an obstinate fight may be made by a small force, in the end it must be captured by the larger force." -Sun Tzu
"On ne saurait tenir les troupes longtemps en campagne, sans porter un très grand préjudice à l'État et sans donner une atteinte mortelle à sa propre réputation." -Sun Tzu
"Yemle ve kandır, kargaşa çıkart ve ele geçir, dirençliyse ona göre hazırlan, güçlüyse ondan sakın, sinirliyse onu kızdır, tevazu göster ki gerçek sanıp mağrurlaşsın, dinleniyosa rahatsız et, aralarında birlik varsa ayır, ona hazırlanma fırsatı vermeden saldır, beklemediği anda ortaya çık." -Sun Tzu
"- وحين لا تجد؛ ابحث عن الأرض المنبسطة واحمِ ظهرك بخنادق!" -Sun Tzu
"Il en doit être des troupes à peu près comme d'une eau courante. De même que l'eau qui coule évite les hauteurs et se hâte vers le pays plat, de même une armée évite la force et frappe la faiblesse." -Sun Tzu
"وعودة إلى الكتاب الذي ننقله لك عزيزي القارئ.. كتاب 'فن الحرب' الذي حرصت القيادة الأميركية على أن يحمله كل جندي ذهب إلى حرب تحرير الكويت لقراءته، والذي اعتادت الشركات اليابانية على أخذ النصائح التي حفل بها من أجل تطبيقها. هذا الكتاب الذي يمكن تطبيق ما جاء فيه في عالم الاقتصاد والتجارة والسياسة والرياضة، فهو لا يركز على تحقيق النصر فحسب، بل أيضا على تجنب الهزيمة وتقليل وتفادي الخسائر بأكبر قدر ممكن.كما يشرح كيف يمكن أن يتحقق النصر مع تجنب القتال إذا كان ذلك ممكنا. أحمد ناصيف" -Sun Tzu
"Vous feindrez quelquefois d'être faible afin que vos ennemis, ouvrant la porte à la présomption et à l'orgueil, viennent ou vous attaquer mal à propos, ou se laissent surprendre eux-mêmes et tailler en pièces honteusement. Vous ferez en sorte que ceux qui vous sont inférieurs ne puissent jamais pénétrer vos desseins. Vous tiendrez vos troupes toujours alertes, toujours en mouvement et dans l'occupation, pour empêcher qu'elles ne se laissent amollir par un honteux repos." -Sun Tzu
"- القائد الجيد هو من يقود جيشه، وكأنما يقود فردا واحدا من فرط التعاون." -Sun Tzu
"65. If the enemy leaves a door open, you must rush in." -Sun Tzu
"holding a position from which the enemy is trying to dislodge you, or perhaps, as Tu Yu says, when he is trying to entice you into a" -Sun Tzu
"Triunfan aquellos que: -saben cuando luchar y cuando no-saben discernir cuándo utilizar muchas o pocas tropas.-tienen tropas cuyos rangos superiores e inferiores tienen el mismo objetivo.-se enfrentan con preparativos a enemigos desprevenidos.-tienen generales competentes y no limitados por sus gobiernos civiles." -Sun Tzu
"He will win who knows when to fight and when not to fight." -Sun Tzu
"Let your rapidity be that of the wind, your compactness that of the forest." -Sun Tzu
"- بادر بقتال العدو حين يعبر النهر.. ولا تجتز أنت وهو على الطرف الآخر." -Sun Tzu
"التظاهر بالاضطراب يتطلب قدرا عاليا من النظام." -Sun Tzu
"All men can see the individual tactics necessary to conquer, but almost no one can see the strategy out of which total victory is evolved." -Sun Tzu
"• المقاتل الباسل سيكون رهيباً في هجومه، متأنياً عند اتخاذه لقراراته." -Sun Tzu
"although I have heard of reckless haste in war, I have never seen wise delay." -Sun Tzu
"• اغزُ البلاد الخصيبة من أجل إمداد جيشك بالطعام." -Sun Tzu
"• الحاكم المستنير يضع خططه مقدماً، والقائد الناجح يرعى مصادره وجنوده (عن طريق الثواب والعقاب والمكافآت)." -Sun Tzu
"(3) a hasty temper, which can be provoked by insults; [Tu Mu tells us that Yao Hsing, when opposed in 357 A.D. by Huang Mei, Teng Ch'iang and others shut himself up behind his walls and refused to fight. Teng Ch'iang said: 'Our adversary is of a choleric temper and easily provoked; let us make constant sallies and break down his walls, then he will grow angry and come out. Once we can bring his force to battle, it is doomed to be our prey.' This plan was acted upon, Yao Hsiang came out to fight, was lured as far as San-yuan by the enemy's pretended flight, and finally attacked and slain.]" -Sun Tzu
"N'employer pour vaincre que la voie des sièges et des batailles, c'est ignorer également et les devoirs de souverain et ceux de général ; c'est ne pas savoir gouverner ; c'est ne pas savoir servir État" -Sun Tzu
"When the enemy's envoys speak in humble terms, but he continues his preparations, he will advance. When their language is deceptive but the enemy pretentiously advances, he will retreat. When the envoys speak in apologetic terms, he wishes a respite. When without a previous understanding the enemy asks for a truce, he is plotting. If without reason one begs for a truce it is assuredly because affairs in his country are in a dangerous state and he is worried and wishes to make a plan to gain a respite. Or otherwise he knows that our situation is susceptible to his plots and he wants to forestall our suspicions by asking for a truce. Then he will take advantage of our unpreparedness." -Sun Tzu
"Move not unless you see an advantage; use not your troops unless there is something to be gained; fight not unless the position is critical. No ruler should put troops into the field merely to gratify his own spleen; no general should fight a battle simply out of pique." -Sun Tzu
"The reason troops slay the enemy is because they are enraged." -Sun Tzu
"14.  By means of these seven considerations I can forecast victory or defeat. 15.  The general that hearkens to my counsel and acts upon it, will conquer:--let such a one be retained in command! The general that hearkens not to my counsel nor acts upon it, will suffer defeat:--let such a one be dismissed!" -Sun Tzu
"Invincibility depends on one's self; the enemy's vulnerability on him. It follows that those skilled in war can make themselves invincible but cannot cause an enemy to be certainly vulnerable. Therefore it is said that one may know how to win, but cannot necessarily do so." -Sun Tzu
"The ultimate skill in taking up a strategic position is to have no form." -Sun Tzu
"- إن ما يصلح للتطبيق في الحرب، يصلح للتطبيق في الحياة اليومية. - عندما نستعد لدفع قواتنا للتحرك، يجب أن نتظاهر بالتكاسل (وهو ما حدث في حرب أكتوبر ١٩٧٣ على سبيل المثال). - عدم وجود الشعر الأبيض ليس دليلا على القوة، ورؤية الشمس والقمر لا تعني حدة البصر، وسماع الرعد لا يؤكد سلامة الأذن. - القرار الأقل صوابا في وقت الحاجة إلى الحسم، أصوب من القرار النموذجي بعد ضياع الفرصة. - التظاهر بالاضطراب يتطلب قدرا عاليا من النظام." -Sun Tzu
"[The chief lesson of this chapter, in Tu Mu's opinion, is the paramount importance in war of rapid evolutions and sudden rushes. 'Great results,' he adds, 'can thus be achieved with small forces.']" -Sun Tzu
"Si vos ennemis sont plus puissants et plus forts que vous, vous ne les attaquerez point, vous éviterez avec un grand soin ce qui peut conduire à un engagement général ; vous cacherez toujours avec une extrême attentionl'état où vous vous trouverez." -Sun Tzu
"Punissez sévèrement, récompensez avec largesse" -Sun Tzu
"لا تكرر التكتيك الذي فزت به سابقاً، ابتكر غيره او عدله بطريقة غير متوقعة. - حين يكون العدو في متناول اليد ومع ذلك يبقى هادئا فهو يعد لك مكيدة. - الحرب المثالية هي الحرب السريعة؛ فالحرب الطويلة استنزاف للمنتصر كما هي للخاسر. - حين تواجه عدوا قويا لا تتحرك حتى تجد فرصة سانحة ولا تحارب حتى يخرج عن طوره ويهاجم! - كن مستعدا لتصيد أخطاء العدو؛ فقد لا يأتي النصر بدونها. - احتفظ بقواتك وقدراتك سرّاً.. فكلما كنت غامضا خافك العدو وضخّم قدراتك! - ستعرض نفسك لهزيمة محتملة إن لم تحدد (أنت) مكان ووقت المعركة. - لا تحارب في الظروف الجوية المتطرفة التي يألفها العدو ولا تألفها قواتك! - الأرض جزء من الجيش وهي التي ترفع أو تخفض من قوته! - وحين تختار الأرض ابحث عن المكان الأعلى والأكثر صلابة. - وحين لا تجد؛ ابحث عن الأرض المنبسطة واحمِ ظهرك بخنادق!" -Sun Tzu
"18. Hence the saying: If you know the enemy and know yourself, you need not fear the result of a hundred battles. If you know yourself but not the enemy, for every victory gained you will also suffer a defeat." -Sun Tzu
"المتخصصين في العلوم الاستراتيجية بأنه'الكتاب المقدس للدراسات العسكرية.' وفصول الكتاب الثلاث عشرة لا تأتي سردا لأحداث" -Sun Tzu
"• لاتكرر التكتيك الذي فزت به سابقاً، ابتكر غيره أو عدله بطريقة غير متوقعة. • بناء على مدى توافق الظروف، على المرء أن يعدل خططه. • لا تفتح على نفسك عدة جبهات في وقت واحد.. تحالف مع أحد الأعداء حتى تنتهي من الآخر. • الاحتفاظ بجاسوس في الداخل يعادل جيشاً بأكمله! • وأفضل الجواسيس من يحمل جنسية العدو ولكنه يؤمن بأهدافك! • القتال والانتصار في جميع المعارك ليس هو قمة المهارة، التفوق الأعظم هو كسر مقاومة العدو دون أي قتال. • قد تعرف السبيل إلى قهر عدوك، دون أن تكون قادراً بالضرورة على عمل ذلك. • اتخاذك الوضع الدفاعي يشير إلى قوة غير كافية، بينما الهجوم يستلزم توفر القوة الزائدة. • المقاتل الباسل سيكون رهيباً في هجومه، متأنياً عند اتخاذه لقراراته." -Sun Tzu
"For Sun Tzu, the fundamental mechanism to ending conflict is to achieve a massive imbalance of power and resources over your opponent, and then to leverage that imbalance so skillfully and decisively that your foe is utterly overwhelmed and chooses to surrender rather than fight." -Sun Tzu
"[There is less precision in the Chinese than I have thought it well to introduce into my translation, and the commentaries on the passage are by no means explicit. But, having regard to the context, we can hardly doubt that Sun Tzu is holding up I Chih and Lu Ya as illustrious" -Sun Tzu
"كل حرب تقوم على أساس الخداع ولهذا حين تكون قادراً على الهجوم تظاهر بعدم القدرة، وحين تقوم بتحريك القوات تظاهر بأنك لا تقوم بأي فعل" -Sun Tzu
"Should one ask: 'How do I cope with a well-ordered enemy host about to attack me?' I reply: 'Seize something he cherishes and he will conform to your desires.'Speed is the essence of war. Take advantage of the enemy's unpreparedness; travel by unexpected routes and strike him where has taken no precautions." -Sun Tzu
"Au petit matin, les esprits sont pénétrants ; durant la journée, ils s'alanguissent, et le soir, ils rentrent à la maison." -Sun Tzu
"Après un premier avantage, n'allez pas vous endormir ou vouloir donner à vos troupes un repos hors de saison. Poussez votre pointe avec la même rapidité qu'un torrent qui se précipiterait de mille toises de haut. Que votre ennemi n'ait pas le temps de se reconnaître, et ne pensez à recueillir les fruits de votre victoire que lorsque sa défaite entière vous aura mis en état de le faire sûrement, avec loisir et tranquillité." -Sun Tzu
"Throw the troops into a position from which there is no escape and even when faced with death they will not flee. For if prepared to die, what can they not achieve? Then officers and men together put forth their utmost efforts. In a desperate situation they fear nothing; when there is no way out they stand firm. Deep in a hostile land they are bound together, and there, where there is no alternative, they will engage the enemy in hand to hand combat." -Sun Tzu
"Momentum in engaging with stakeholders arises from nothing more than the expected and the surprising, yet combining them form more ways than can ever be known. Each brings on the other, like an infinite cycle. Who can exhaust all possibilities?" -Sun Tzu
"El valiente puede luchar, el cuidadoso puede hacer de centinela, y el inteligente puede estudiar, analizar y comunicar. Cada cuál es útil." -Sun Tzu
"Knowing the enemy enables you to take the offensive, knowing yourself enables you to stand on the defensive.' He adds: 'Attack is the secret of defense; defense is the planning of an attack." -Sun Tzu
"You will not succeed unless your men have tenacity and unity of purpose, and above all, a spirit of sympathetic cooperation." -Sun Tzu
"- الأرض جزء من الجيش وهي التي ترفع أو تخفض من قوته!" -Sun Tzu
"وفي الميدان كن' سريعاً كالريح. صامتاً كالغابة. ضارياً كالنار. وثابتاً كالجبل'." -Sun Tzu
"inquiry" -Sun Tzu
"If we do not wish to fight, we can prevent the enemy from engaging us even though the lines of our encampment be merely traced out on the good ground. All we need do is to throw something odd and unaccountable in his way." -Sun Tzu
"When I wish to give battle, my enemy, even though protected by high walls and deep moats, cannot help but engage me, for I attack a position he must succor. When I wish to avoid battle I may defend myself simply by drawing a line on the ground; the enemy will be unable to attack me because I divert him from going where he wishes." -Sun Tzu
"La mayoría de nosotros aceptamos involuntariamente una vida superficial, pero rodeándola de gran misterio." -Sun Tzu
"• قارن بحرص جيش العدو بجيشك، لتقف على نقاط القوة المفرطة، وتلك الناقصة." -Sun Tzu
"وكما قلنا ونعيده ثانيا لأهميته.. إذا عرفت عدوَّك وعرفت نفسك فليس هناك ما يدعو إلى أن تخاف نتيجة مائة معركة، وإذا عرفت نفسك ولم تعرف عدوّك فإنك تقاسي من هزيمة مقابل كل انتصار، وإذا لم تعرف نفسك ولم تعرف عدوَّك فإنك أحمق وسوف تواجه الهزيمة في كل معركة." -Sun Tzu
"عندما نستعد لدفع قواتنا للتحرك، يجب أن نتظاهر بالتكاسل (وهو ما حدث في حرب أكتوبر ١٩٧٣ على سبيل المثال)." -Sun Tzu
"Triunfa el que elabora una táctica para conseguirlo, aprovecha su oportunidad, acepta sus debilidades y reconoce sus fortalezas." -Sun Tzu
"At the critical moment, the leader of an army acts like one who has climbed up a height and then kicks away the ladder behind him. He carries his men deep into hostile territory before he shows his hand." -Sun Tzu
"Now, the supreme requirements of generalship are a clear perception, the harmony of his host, a profound strategy coupled with far-reaching plans, an understanding of the seasons and an ability to examine the human factors. For a general unable to estimate his capabilities or comprehend the arts of expediency and flexibility when faced with the opportunity to engage the enemy will advance in a stumbling and hesitant manner, looking anxiously first to his right and then to his left, and be unable to produce a plan. Credulous, he will place confidence in unreliable reports, believing at one moment this and at another that. As timorous as a fox in advancing or retiring, his groups will be scattered about. What is the difference between this and driving innocent people into boiling water or fire?" -Sun Tzu
"طور قدرات مرؤوسيك: إن كنت واثقا من نفسك فعليك أن تثق بقدرات الآخرين أجب عن الطلبات ناصحا لكن لاتخض في التفاصيل بل اتركها لهم." -Sun Tzu
"- لا تفتح على نفسك عدة جبهات في وقت واحد.. تحالف مع أحد الأعداء حتى تنتهي من الآخر!" -Sun Tzu
"Et quand j'ai remporté une bataille, je ne répète pas ma tactique, mais je réponds aux circonstances selon une variété infinie de voies." -Sun Tzu
"Lure with bait, strike with chaos" -Sun Tzu
"القرارات على الوجه الأكمل؟ الناجية. - أي الجيشين يتفوق في السلاح والعتاد؟ الناجية. - في أي جانب يوجد الضباط والجنود المدربون أفضل التدريب؟ الناجية. - أي الجانبين أكثر صرامة وحيادية في تقدير المكافآت والعقاب؟ الناجية. هذه العوامل يجب أن تكون معروفة" -Sun Tzu
"Un gobierno no debe movilizar un ejército por ira y los jefes militares no deben provocar la guerra por cólera." -Sun Tzu
"فإحراز مائة انتصار في مائة معركة ليس هو الأفضل، بل إن إخضاع العدو بدون قتال هو أفضل ما يكون،" -Sun Tzu
"A common mistake is to consider planning as only a mental process, an idea in our head that simply looks at the past and adjusts for the future. If your plan is not in writing, you do not have a plan at all. Instead, you have only a dream, a vision, or perhaps even a nightmare." -Sun Tzu
"He who can modify his tactics in relation to his opponent and thereby succeed in winning, may be called a heaven-born captain" -Sun Tzu
"Hacerte invencible significa conocerte a ti mismo; aguardar para descubrir la vulnerabilidad del adversario significa conocer a los demás." -Sun Tzu
"Si vous répandez l'argent à pleines mains, si vous traitez bien tout le monde, si vous empêchez que vos soldats ne fassent le moindre dégât dans les endroits par où ils passeront, si les peuples vaincus ne souffrent aucun dommage, assurez-vous qu'ils sont déjà gagnés, et que le bien qu'ils diront de vous attirera plus de sujets à votre maître et plus de villes sous sa domination que les plus brillantes victoires." -Sun Tzu
"Know the enemy and know yourself; in a hundred battles you will never be defeated." -Sun Tzu
"兵者，詭道也。故能而示之不能，用而示之不用，近而示之遠，遠而示之近。" -Sun Tzu
"Victory comes from finding opportunities in problems." -Sun Tzu
"Victory can be created. For even if the enemy is numerous, I can prevent him from engaging. . . . [I]f he does not know my military situation, I can always make him urgently attend to his own preparations so that he has no leisure to plan to fight me. Therefore, determine the enemy's plans and you will know which strategy will be successful and which will not. Agitate him and ascertain the pattern of his movement. Determine his dispositions and so ascertain the field of battle. Probe him and learn where his strength is abundant and where deficient. The ultimate in disposing one's troops is to be without ascertainable shape. Then the most penetrating spies cannot pry in nor can the wise lay plans against you. It is according to the shapes that I lay the plans for victory, but the multitude does not comprehend this. Although everyone can see the outward aspects, none understands the way in which I have created victory. Therefore, when I have won a victory I do not repeat my tactics but respond to circumstances in an infinite variety of ways. Now an army may be likened to water, for just as flowing water avoids the heights and hastens to the lowlands, so any army avoids strength and strikes weakness. And as water shapes its flow in accordance with the ground, so an army manages its victory in accordance with the situation of the enemy. And as water has no constant form, there are in war no constant conditions. Thus, one able to gain the victory by modifying his tactics in accordance with the enemy situation may be said to be divine. Of the five elements, none is always predominant: of the four seasons, none lasts forever; of the days, some are long and some short, and the moon waxes and wanes." -Sun Tzu
"Поэтому сказано: если знаешь врага и знаешь себя, твоя победа будет несомненна. Если знаешь Небо и знаешь Землю, твоя победа будет полной." -Sun Tzu
"La strategia è la via del paradosso. Così, chi è abile, si mostri maldestro; chi è utile, si mostri inutile. Chi è affabile, si mostri scostante; chi è scostante, si mostri affabile." -Sun Tzu
"Najwyższym osiągnięciem jest pokonanie wroga bez stoczenia z nim walki." -Sun Tzu
"[Chang Yu says: 'If they are in an awkward place together, they will surely exert their united strength to get out of it.'] 24." -Sun Tzu
"The general who is skilled in defense hides in the most secret recesses of the earth; he who is skilled in attack flashes forth from the topmost heights of heaven." -Sun Tzu
"- استولِ قبل عدوك على الممرات الضيقة والنقاط المهمة وحين تصل إليها افترض احتلاله لها." -Sun Tzu
"If troops are punished before their loyalty is secured they will be disobedient. If not obedient, it is difficult to employ them. If troops are loyal, but punishments are not enforced, you cannot employ them. Thus, command them with civility and imbue them uniformly with martial ardor and it may be said that victory is certain. If orders which are consistently effective are used in instructing the troops, they will be obedient. If orders which are not consistently effective are used in instructing them, they will be disobedient. When orders are consistently trustworthy and observed, the relationship of a commander with his troops is satisfactory." -Sun Tzu
"- اتخذ القرارات الصحيحة المحددة: وإن شعرت بأنك أقدمت على قرار خاطئ فكن شجاعا وغيره قبل فوات الأوان." -Sun Tzu
"تحقيق النصر مع تجنب القتال إذا كان ذلك ممكناً،" -Sun Tzu
"Que l'ennemi ne sache jamais comment vous avez l'intention de le combattre, ni la manière dont vous vous disposez à l'attaquer, ou à vous défendre. Car, s'il se prépare au front, ses arrières seront faibles ; s'il se prépare à l'arrière, son front sera fragile ; s'il se prépare à sa gauche, sa droite sera vulnérable ; s'il se prépare à sa droite, sa gauche sera affaiblie ; et s'il se prépare en tous lieux, il sera partout en défaut. S'il l'ignore absolument, il fera de grands préparatifs, il tâchera de se rendre fort de tous les côtés, il divisera ses forces, et c'est justement ce qui fera sa perte." -Sun Tzu
"Regard your soldiers as your children, and they will follow you into the deepest valleys; look upon them as your own beloved sons, and they will stand by you even unto death. 26. If, however, you are indulgent, but unable to make your authority felt; kind-hearted, but unable to enforce your commands; and incapable, moreover, of quelling disorder: then your soldiers must be likened to spoilt children; they are useless for any practical purpose." -Sun Tzu
"WANG XI Opponents cannot exhaust you." -Sun Tzu
"The art of war is of vital importance to the State. It is a matter of life and death, a road either to safety or to ruin." -Sun Tzu
"- كلما طالت خطوط تموينك ازداد ضعفك واحتمال التفاف العدو حولك." -Sun Tzu
"Bestow rewards without regard to rule, issue orders without regard to previous arrangements, and you will be able to handle a whole army as though you had to do with but a single man." -Sun Tzu
"L'excès de récompenses et de punitions montre que le commandement est au bout de ses ressources, et dans une grande détresse" -Sun Tzu
"The naked man fears no pickpocketing" -Sun Tzu
"القتال والانتصار في جميع المعارك ليس هو قمة المهارة، التفوق الأعظم هو كسر مقاومة العدو دون أي قتال." -Sun Tzu
"• لا تفتح على نفسك عدة جبهات في وقت واحد.. تحالف مع أحد الأعداء حتى تنتهي من الآخر." -Sun Tzu
"More planning shall give greater possibility of victory while less planning, lesser possibility of victory. So how about those without planning?" -Sun Tzu
"Humanity and justice are the principles on which to govern a state, but not an army; opportunism and flexibility, on the other hand, are military rather than civic virtues." -Sun Tzu
"Heaven and earth are not humanistic--they regard myriad beings as straw dogs; sages are not humanistic--they regard people as straw dogs," -Sun Tzu
"لاتكرر التكتيك الذي فزت به سابقاً، ابتكر غيره أو عدله بطريقة غير متوقعة." -Sun Tzu
"The Giles' edition of the ART OF WAR, as stated above, was a scholarly work." -Sun Tzu
"كُن مُستعدًّا لتصيد أخطاء العدو؛ فقد لا يأتي النصر بدونها" -Sun Tzu
"When Lionel Giles began his translation of Sun Tzu's ART OF WAR, the work was virtually unknown in Europe. Its introduction to Europe began in 1782 when a French Jesuit Father living in China, Joseph Amiot, acquired a copy of it, and translated it into French. It was not a good translation because, according to Dr. Giles, '[I]t contains a great deal that Sun Tzu did not write, and very little indeed of what he did.' The first translation into English was published" -Sun Tzu
"Procurez-vous pacifiquement tous les secours dont vous aurez besoin ; n'employez la force que lorsque les autres voies auront été inutiles" -Sun Tzu
"When Sun Tzu spoke of victory, this is what he meant--the prevention or quick resolution of conflict, not the conquering of your opponent." -Sun Tzu
"fallar en conocer la situación de los adversarios por economizar en aprobar gastos para investigar y estudiar a la oposición es extremadamente inhumano y no es típico de un buen jefe militar, de un consejero de gobierno, ni de un gobernante victorioso." -Sun Tzu
"- الحرب لا تكسب بالقوة بل بالخداع وعدم الاستعجال." -Sun Tzu
"dilatoriness." -Sun Tzu
"instance" -Sun Tzu
"If you know the enemy and know yourself you need not fear the results of a hundred battles." -Sun Tzu
"Ser violento al principio y terminar temiendo después a los propios soldados es el colmo de la ineptitud." -Sun Tzu
"and were closely pursued by Pan Ch`ao. Over 5000 heads were brought back as trophies, besides immense spoils in the shape of horses and cattle and valuables of every description. Yarkand then capitulating, Kutcha and the other kingdoms drew off their respective forces. From that time forward, Pan Ch`ao's prestige completely overawed the countries of the west.' In this case, we see that the Chinese general not only kept his own officers in ignorance of his real plans, but actually took the bold step of dividing his army in order to deceive the" -Sun Tzu
"Do not interfere with an army that is returning home because a man whose heart is set on returning home will fight to the death against any attempt to bar his way, and is therefore too dangerous an opponent to be tackled." -Sun Tzu
"Un grand général doit savoir l'art des changements. S'il s'en tient à une connaissance vague de certains principes, à une application routinière des règles de l'art, si ses méthodes de commandement sont dépourvues de souplesse, s'il examine les situations conformément à quelques schémas, s'il prend ses résolutions d'une manière mécanique, il ne mérite pas de commander." -Sun Tzu
"- حرب لا تستطيع كسبها حاول تجنبها والجأ للمفاوضات قدر الإمكان." -Sun Tzu
"Traitez bien les prisonniers, nourrissez-les comme vos propres soldats ; faites en sorte, s'il se peut, qu'ils se trouvent mieux chez vous qu'ils ne le seraient dans leur propre camp, ou dans le sein même de leur patrie. Ne les laissez jamais oisifs, tirez parti de leurs services avec les défiances convenables, et, pour le dire en deux mots, conduisez-vous à leur égard comme s'ils étaient des troupes qui se fussent enrôlées librement sous vos étendards. Voilà ce que j'appelle gagner une bataille et devenir plus fort." -Sun Tzu
"• بناء على مدى توافق الظروف، على المرء أن يعدل خططه." -Sun Tzu
"فقال: 'إذا كانت كلمات الأوامر غير واضحة ومميزة وغير مفهومة فيقع اللوم على القائد'، ثم أكمل فأعطى أوامره: 'درن لليسار'، لكن النساء انفجرن بالضحك ولم ينفذن الأمر." -Sun Tzu
"There are five qualities which are dangerous in the character of a general:If reckless, he can be killed. A general who is stupid and courageous is a calamity. As far as a general is concerned, courage is but one quality.If cowardly, captured. One who esteems life above all will be overcome with hesitance. Hesitance in a general is a great calamity. If quick-tempered you can make a fool of him. An impulsive man can be provoked to rage and brought to his death. One easily angered is irascible, obstinate and hasty. He does not consider difficulties.If he has too delicate a sense of honor you can calumniate him. One anxious to defend his reputation pays no regard to anything else.If he is of a compassionate nature you can harass him. He who is humanitarian and compassionate and fears only casualties cannot give up temporary advantage for a long-term gain and is unable to let go this in order to seize that.Now these five traits of character are serious faults in a general and in military operations are calamitous. The ruin of the army and the death of the general are inevitable results of these shortcomings. They must be deeply pondered." -Sun Tzu
"The MORAL LAW causes the people to be in complete accord with their ruler, so that they will follow him regardless of their lives, undismayed by any danger. 7. HEAVEN signifies night and day, cold and heat, times and seasons. 8. EARTH comprises distances, great and small; danger and security; open ground and narrow passes; the chances of life and death. 9. The COMMANDER stands for the virtues of wisdom, sincerely, benevolence, courage and strictness. 10. By METHOD AND DISCIPLINE are to be understood the marshaling of the army in its proper subdivisions, the graduations of rank among the officers, the maintenance of roads by which supplies may reach the army, and the control of military expenditure." -Sun Tzu
"...la norma general de las operaciones militares consiste en no contar con que el enemigo no acuda, sino confiar en tener los medios de enfrentarte a él; no contar con que el adversario no ataque, sino confiar en poseer lo que no puede ser atacado." -Sun Tzu
"Disaster, by definition, is failing to capitalize on your achievements despite victory in battle and seizure of the spoils. As the phrase goes, 'He who hesitates is lost.' Hence the saying, 'The brilliant rulers thinks it through, while good commanders refine the plan.'When nought's to gain, move not.Over things of little worth, fight not.Save in direst need, war not.A ruler cannot call up armies in a rage nor can his commanders start a war over a slight. They move only if it is to their advantage. They bide their time, if it is not. A person in a rage can be restored to good humor, and someone mortally offended can be restored to affability. By contrast, a kingdom, once destroyed, cannot be restored, nor can the dead be brought back to life. Thus the brilliant ruler approaches battle with due prudence, and good commanders are ever on their guard. This is the way to secure the ruling house and keep the army intact." -Sun Tzu
"In war, numbers alone confer no advantage. Do not advance relying on sheer military power. It is sufficient to estimate the enemy situation correctly and to concentrate your strength to capture him. There is no more to it than this. He who lacks foresight and underestimates his enemy will surely be captured by him." -Sun Tzu
"Ne négligez pas de courir après un petit avantage lorsque vous pourrez vous le procurer sûrement et sans aucune perte de votre part. Plusieurs de ces petits avantages qu'on pourrait acquérir et qu'on néglige occasionnent souvent de grandes pertes et des dommages irréparables." -Sun Tzu
"Peace proposals unaccompanied by a sworn covenant indicate a plot." -Sun Tzu
"Secret operations are essential in war; upon them the army relies to make its every move. An army without secret agents is exactly like a man without eyes or ears." -Sun Tzu
"Actúa cuando sea beneficioso; en caso contrario, desiste. La ira puede convertirse en alegría y la cólera puede convertirse en placer, pero un pueblo destruido no puede hacerse renacer y al muerte no puede convertirse en vida. En consecuencia un gobierno esclarecido presta atención a todo esto y un buen mando militar lo tiene en cuenta. Ésta es la manera de mantener a la nación a salvo y de conservar intacto un ejército." -Sun Tzu
"When you surround an army, leave an outlet free." -Sun Tzu
"- حين تحاصر العدو اترك له فجوة للهرب.. فالضغط بقسوة يجعله يستأسد في القتال." -Sun Tzu
"وتروي المخطوطات الصينية أن 'سون أتزو وو' والمعروف اختصارا باسم 'سون أتزو' كان مواطنا وجنديا في مملكة 'تشي" -Sun Tzu
"purposely ignored by him. [16] Tu Mu's conjecture seems to be based" -Sun Tzu
"If you know neither the enemy nor yourself, you will succumb in every battle. [Chang Yu said: 'Knowing the enemy enables you to take the offensive, knowing yourself enables you to stand on the defensive." -Sun Tzu
"a classic yields significantly different meanings when read in different circumstances and moods; on a larger scale, a classic conveys wholly different worlds when read in different times of life, at different stages of experience, feeling, and understanding of life. Classics may be interesting and even entertaining, but people always find they are not like books used for diversion, which give up all of their content at once; the classics seem to grow wiser as we grow wiser, more useful the more we use them." -Sun Tzu
"20. Thus it may be known that the leader of armies is the arbiter of the people's fate, the man on whom it depends whether the nation shall be in peace or in peril." -Sun Tzu
"Know thy enemy" -Sun Tzu
"Let your plans be dark and impenetrable as night..." -Sun Tzu
"- حين يكون العدو في متناول اليد ومع ذلك يبقى هادئا فهو يعد لك مكيدة." -Sun Tzu
"One may know how to conquerwithout being able to do it." -Sun Tzu
"Donde haya montículos y terraplenes, sitúate en su lado soleado, manteniéndolos siempre a tu derecha y detrás." -Sun Tzu
"Victorious warriors win first and then go to war." -Sun Tzu
"Un viento diurno cesará al anochecer, un viento nocturno cesará al amanecer." -Sun Tzu
"Strong action is training the body without being burdened by the body, exercising the mind without being used by the mind, working in the world without being affected by the world, carrying out tasks without being obstructed by tasks." -Sun Tzu
"The general is the protector of the state. If this protection is all-embracing, the state will surely be strong; if defective, the state will certainly be weak. A sovereign who obtains the right person prospers. One who fails to do so will be ruined." -Sun Tzu
"the wise leader's plans, considerations of advantage and of disadvantage will be blended together." -Sun Tzu
"The answer was again in the affirmative, so arrangements were made to bring 180 ladies out of the Palace. Sun Tzu divided them into two companies, and placed one of the King's favorite concubines at the head of each. He then bade them all take spears in their hands, and addressed them thus: 'I presume you know the difference between front and back, right hand and left hand?" -Sun Tzu
"mountain. Let your plans be dark and impenetrable as night, and when you move, fall like a thunderbolt." -Sun Tzu
"Si solo eres capaz de asegurar la victoria tras enfrentarte a un adversario en un conflicto armado, esa victoria es una dura victoria. Si eres capaz de ver lo sutil y de darte cuenta de lo oculto, irrumpiendo antes del orden de la batalla, la victoria así obtenida es una victoria fácil." -Sun Tzu
"He who exercises no forethought but makes light of his opponents is sure to be captured by them. If soldiers are punished before they have grown attached to you, they will not prove submissive; and, unless submissive, then will be practically useless. If, when the soldiers have become attached to you, punishments are not enforced, they will still be useless.Therefore soldiers must be treated in the first instance with humanity, but kept under control by means of iron discipline. This is a certain road to victory. If in training soldiers commands are habitually enforced, the army will be well-disciplined; if not, its discipline will be bad." -Sun Tzu
"Savaş kandırmacalı bir iştir. Bu nedenle vurabilecekken vuramayacakmış gibi göstermek, saldıracakken saldıramayacakmış gibi göstermek, yaklaşırken uzaklaşıyrmuş gibi göstermek, uzaklaşırken yakınlaşıyormuş gibi göstermek gerekir." -Sun Tzu
"هكذا تبرز الحاجة لاستخدام الجواسيس، الذين ينقسمون إلى خمس فئات: ١- المحليون (المواطنون). ٢- الداخليون. ٣- المنشقون (المزدوجون). ٤- الهالكون (المضللون). ٥- الاستراتيجيون (الباقون أحياء)." -Sun Tzu
"Così quando sei capace, fingi di essere incapace.Quando sei attivo, fingi di essere inattivo.Quando sei vicino, fingi di essere lontano.Quando sei lontano, fingi di essere vicino.Così, quando il nemico cerca il vantaggio, getta l'esca per ingannarlo.Quando è in confusione attaccalo.Quando il nemico è potente, stai in guardia.Quando è forte, evitalo.Quando è infuriato, provocalo.Attaccalo quando è impreparato.Fai la tua mossa quando meno se lo aspetta." -Sun Tzu
"Hay que prohibir los augurios, y eliminar las supersticiones. Hasta que la misma muerte llegue, no hay calamidad que deba ser temida." -Sun Tzu
"When an army falls into danger, it can snatch victory from defeat." -Sun Tzu
"L'invincibilité se trouve dans la défense, la possibilité de victoire dans l'attaque." -Sun Tzu
"According as circumstances are favourable, one should modify one's plans." -Sun Tzu
"Si vas a colocar tu ejército en posición de observar al enemigo, atraviesa rápido las montañas y vigílalos desde un valle." -Sun Tzu
"Within the dynamic of war, there's only direct and indirect, but their variations are inexhaustible. They are born one from the other within infinite tireless circle." -Sun Tzu
"Las armas son instrumentos de mal augurio y la guerra es un asunto peligroso. Es indispensable impedir una derrota desastrosa y, por lo tanto, no vale la pena movilizar un ejército por razones insignificantes: Las armas sólo deben utilizarse cuando no existe otro remedio." -Sun Tzu
"The messengers with the words of reconciliation want peace." -Sun Tzu
"The Moral Law, Heaven, Earth, The Commander, Method, and Discipline.These Five Heads should be familiar to every general. He who knows them, will be victorious. He who knows them not, will fail." -Sun Tzu
"1. Sun Tzu said: The control of a large force is the same principle as the control of a few men: it is merely a question of dividing up their numbers. 2. Fighting with a large army under your command is nowise different from fighting with a small one: it is merely a question of instituting signs and signals." -Sun Tzu
"Use victory over an enemy to bolster your own strenght." -Sun Tzu
"No hay más de cinco notas musicales, y sin embargo, las combinaciones de estas cinco dan lugar a más melodías de las que nunca se podrán oír." -Sun Tzu
"If one man slay another of set purpose, he himself may rightfully be slain.' He who relies solely on warlike measures shall be exterminated; he who relies solely on peaceful measures shall perish" -Sun Tzu
"Everyone sees what you appear to be, few experience what you really are." -Sun Tzu
"故曰：知彼知己，百戰不殆；不知彼而知己，一勝一負；不知彼，不知己，每戰必敗。" -Sun Tzu
"If I know that my troops are capable of striking the enemy, but do not know that he is invulnerable to attack, my chance of victory is but half. If I know that the enemy is vulnerable to attack, but do not know that my troops are incapable of striking him, my chance of victory is but half. If I know that the enemy can be attacked and that my troops are capable of attacking him, but do not realize that because of the conformation of the ground I should not attack, my chance of victory is but half." -Sun Tzu
"• قد تعرف السبيل إلى قهر عدوك، دون أن تكون قادراً بالضرورة على عمل ذلك." -Sun Tzu
"Victory belongs to a man who can conquer the cunningness of war, of deceit and fairness." -Sun Tzu
"Hence, when able to attack, we must seem unable; when using our forces, we must seem inactive; when we are near, we must make the enemy believe we are far away; when far" -Sun Tzu
"He who only sees the obvious, wins his battles with difficulty; he who looks below the surface of things, wins with ease." -Sun Tzu
"Know your enemy, know yourself, and the victory will not be questionable even in hundreds of battles." -Sun Tzu
"«Conoce a tu enemigo; conócete a ti mismo, y no encontrarás ningún peligro en cien batallas." -Sun Tzu
"İçinde bulunduğunuz durum ve koşullar ne kadar tehlikeli olursa olsun, umutsuzluğa kapılmayın; asıl her şeyden korkulacak durumlarda korkulacak hiçbir şey yoktur; tehlikelerle kuşatıldığınızda bu tehlikelerin hiçbirinden korkmayın; çaresiz kaldığınızda elinize ne geçerse ona güvenin; gafil avlandığınızda gidip düşmanı gafil avlayın." -Sun Tzu
"Si sabes que tus soldados son capaces de atacar, pero ignoras si el enemigo es invulnerable a un ataque, tienes solo la mitad de posibilidades de ganar. Si sabes que tu enemigo es vulnerable a un ataque, pero ignoras si tus soldados son capaces de atacar, sólo tienes la mitad de posibilidades de ganar. Si sabes que el enemigo es vulnerable a un ataque y que tus soldados pueden llevarlo a cabo, pero ignoras si la condición del terreno es favorable para la batalla, tienes la mitad de probabilidades de vencer." -Sun Tzu
"إن حضور هذا البعد الروحي هو أحد الطرق التي يختلف فيها كتاب 'فن الحرب' اختلافاً ملحوظا عن الكتاب الغربي الموروث الذي يقارن به دائما كتاب 'فن الحرب' '١٨٣٣' لكلاوسفتز. فعلى رغم أن هذا الأخير يمكن مقارنته بكتاب 'سون' في عدة جوانب إلا أنه يفتقر إلى هذا البعد الروحي افتقارا تامّاً وسبب هذا الاختلاف هو غياب ما يناظر الفلسفة الطاوية في الثقافة الغربية." -Sun Tzu
"Thus do many calculations lead to victory, and few calculations to defeat:" -Sun Tzu
"Düşmanı tanıyor ve kendini tanıyorsan, yüzlerce savaşın sonucundan korkmana gerek yok." -Sun Tzu
"المخطط الجيد يُخضع العدو من دون قتال" -Sun Tzu
"(1) La Ley Moral, (2) el Cielo, (3) la Tierra, (4) El Comandante, (5) El Método y la Disciplina." -Sun Tzu
"So much for operations in salt-marches." -Sun Tzu
"Los habitantes constituyen la base de un país, los alimentos son la felicidad del pueblo. El príncipe debe respetar este hecho y ser sobrio y austero en sus gastos públicos." -Sun Tzu
"MASTER SUN SAYS, Of old, those who excelled in battle thought first to make themselves invincible, and so they waited for the moment when their enemies could be defeated. It is you who determine your own invincibility, but whether the enemy can be conquered or not rests with him. Therefore, whoever excels in battle can make himself invincible, but he cannot always make the enemy vulnerable. Hence I say, 'The conditions for victory can be known, but they cannot be forced.'1 Go on the defensive when your enemy cannot be overcome. Go on the offensive against a vulnerable enemy. Defend when your troop strength is lacking. Attack when you have surplus strength. To excel at defense means hiding oneself away in the deepest recesses of the earth. To excel at offense means striking from the highest reaches of the heavens. Therefore, the commander who is good at both offense and defense can preserve himself and achieve total victory." -Sun Tzu
"When the men are united, the brave cannot advance alone, the cowardly cannot retreat alone." -Sun Tzu
"Flexibility in our lives means having a fundamental ability to relate to any new environment and excel in it." -Sun Tzu
"When the men are united, the brave will not advance alone, nor will the cowardly retreat." -Sun Tzu
"(أصول الحرب)،" -Sun Tzu
"El que se enfrenta al oponente durante varios años para luchar por la victoria en una batalla decisiva, pero que por su codicia y su anhelo de honores, permanece ignorante de la situación del oponente; está totalmente desprovisto de humanidad. Un hombre así no tiene nada de comandante, no es un apoyo para su soberano y no es el dueño de la victoria." -Sun Tzu
"Follow the advantages and use the opportunity." -Sun Tzu
"Co se týče proher (vad) vojevůdce:První: je neschopný, avšak je přesvědčen o svých schopnostech.Druhá: domýšlivost.Třetí: bažení po hodnostech.Čtvrtá: lačnost po majetku....Šestá: lehkovážnost.Sedmá: hloupost.Osmá: nedostatek odvahy.Devátá: odvaha se slabostí.Desátá: nespolehlivost....Čtrnáctá: nerozhodnostPatnáctá: pomalost.Šestnáctá: lhostejnost.Sedmnáctá: útlak.Osmnáctá: krutost.Devatenáctá: sobeckost.Dvacátá: působení zmatku.Je-li proher (vad) mnoho, bude mnoho ztrát.Má-li vojevůdce jedinou z těchto chyb, dav se nepodvolí. Je-li postižen dvěma z nich, bude vojsku chybět pořádek. Má-li tři z nich, lidé jemu podřízení ho opustí. Má-li čtyři z nich, postihne neštěstí celou zemi." -Sun Tzu
"In war, attack directly; secure your victory indirectly" -Sun Tzu
"El arte de la guerra se basa en el engaño. Por lo tanto, cuando es capaz de atacar, ha de aparentar incapacidad; cuando las tropas se mueven, aparentar inactividad." -Sun Tzu
"Sé rápido como el trueno que retumba antes de que hayas podido taparte los oídos, veloz como el relámpago que relumbra antes de haber podido pestañear." -Sun Tzu
"Comparar cuidadosamente el ejército enemigo con el propio, para saber donde abunda su fuerza y donde es deficiente." -Sun Tzu
"Having intelligence without conscience is like owning a field that you never cultivate. Having intelligence without courage is like having saplings and not planting them. Having courage without humanity is like knowing how to harvest without sowing." -Sun Tzu
"Moreover, The Art of War ends with a quiet coda whose firm assertion is too often overlooked: that even the most impressive empires fall as soon as their rulers, by their careless conduct, lose or cast aside the best men in their employ." -Sun Tzu
"故善用兵者，屈人之兵，而非戰也" -Sun Tzu
"It is said that victorious warriors first win and then go to war, while defeated warriors first go to war and then seek to win." -Sun Tzu
"El desorden llega del orden, la cobardía surge del valor, la debilidad brota de la fuerza.Si quieres fingir desorden para convencer a tus adversarios y distraerlos, primero tienes que organizar el orden, porque sólo entonces puedes crear un desorden artificial. Si quieres fingir cobardía para conocer la estrategia de los adversarios, primero tienes que ser extremadamente valiente, porque solo entonces puedes actuar como tímido de manera artificial. Si quieres fingir debilidad para inducir la arrogancia de tus enemigos, primero has de ser extremadamente fuerte porque solo entonces puedes pretender ser débil." -Sun Tzu
"For it is the soldier's disposition to offer an obstinate resistance when surrounded, to fight hard when he cannot help himself, and to obey promptly when he has fallen into danger." -Sun Tzu
"12. There are five dangerous faults which may affect a general: (1) Recklessness, which leads to destruction; (2) cowardice, which leads to capture; (3) a hasty temper, which can be provoked by insults; (4) a delicacy of honor which is sensitive to shame; (5) over-solicitude for his men, which exposes him to worry and trouble." -Sun Tzu
"Los terrenos bajos son húmedos, lo cual provoca enfermedades y dificulta el combate." -Sun Tzu
"[Chang Yu says: 'The general has confidence in the men under his command, and the men are docile, having confidence in him. Thus the gain is mutual' He quotes a pregnant sentence from Wei Liao Tzu, ch. 4: 'The art of giving orders is not to try to rectify minor blunders and not to be swayed by petty doubts.' Vacillation and fussiness are the surest means of sapping the confidence of an army.]" -Sun Tzu
"Their blows are correlated. The cheng and the ch'i are compared to two interlocked rings: ‘Who can tell where one begins and the other ends?' Their possible permutations are infinite; the cheng effort may be transformed into a ch'i, a ch'i into a cheng. Thus we may redefine a ch'i attack as one made where a decision is speedily attainable at least cost, in an area characterized by voids or fissures in the enemy's defences." -Sun Tzu
"many words. 'Sun Tzu's 13 Chapters and Wu Ch`i's Art of War are the two books that people commonly refer to on the subject of military matters. Both of them are widely distributed, so I will not discuss" -Sun Tzu
"Rouse him, and learn the principle of his activity or inactivity." -Sun Tzu
"When an advancing army enemy crosses water do not meet him at the water's edge. It is advantageous to allow half his force to cross and then strike." -Sun Tzu
"When a forceHas fallen into danger,It canSnatch victoryFrom defeat." -Sun Tzu
"The reason the enlightened prince and the wise general conquer the enemy whenever they move and their achievements surpass those of ordinary men is foreknowledge. What is called 'foreknowledge' cannot be elicited from spirits, nor from gods, nor by analogy with past events, nor from calculations. It must be obtained from men who know the enemy situation.There are five sorts of secret agents to be employed. These are native, inside, doubled, expendable, and living. When these five types of agents are all working simultaneously and none knows their method of operation they are called 'The Divine Skein' and are the treasure of a sovereign.Native agents are those of the enemy's country people whom we employ. Inside agents are enemy officials whom we employ. Among the official class there are worthy men who have been deprived of office; others who have committed errors and have been punished. There are sycophants and minions who are covetous of wealth. There are those who wrongly remain long in lowly office; those who have not obtained responsible positions, and those whose sole desire is to take advantage of times of trouble to extend the scope of their own abilities. There are those who are two-faced, changeable, and deceitful, and who are always sitting on the fence. As far as all such are concerned you can secretly inquire after their welfare, reward them liberally with gold and silk, and so tie them to you. Then you may rely on them to seek out the real facts of the situation in their country, and to ascertain its plans directed against you. They can as well create cleavages between the sovereign and his ministers so that these are not in harmonious accord.Doubled agents are enemy spies whom we employ. When the enemy sends spies to pry into my accomplishments or lack of them, I bribe them lavishly, turn them around, and make them my agents.Expendable agents are those of our own spies who are deliberately given fabricated information. We leak information which is actually false and allow our own agents to learn it. When these agents operating in enemy territory are taken by him they are certain to report this false information. The enemy will believe it and make preparations accordingly. But our actions will of course not accord with this, and the enemy will put the spies to death. Sometimes we send agents to the enemy to make a covenant of peace and then attack." -Sun Tzu
"Jsou příkazy vládce, které nepřijmeš." -Sun Tzu
"When ears don't hear, use gongs and drums. When eyes don't see, use flags and banners." -Sun Tzu
"If it is to your advantage, make a forward move; if not, stay where you are" -Sun Tzu
"To command many is equal as to command few; it's the question of divide." -Sun Tzu
"La ira puede cambiar con el tiempo a alegría; el enojo puede ser reemplazado por el contento." -Sun Tzu
"Pošleš-li muže do boje, pak čím déle bude trvat dosažení vítězství, tím více se otupí jejich zbraně a pohasne žár v jejich srdcích." -Sun Tzu
"All one can say is that this power will be exercised wisely by some, foolishly by others, and that among those who bear arms some will be loyal and others rebellious. [58]" -Sun Tzu
"Vojáci jsou oddáni pěti věcem: Pro svého vojevůdce zapomenou na svou rodinu. Přejdou-li hranici, zapomenou na své příbuzné. Střetnou-li s nepřítelem, zapomenou na sebe. Jsou-li odhodláni zemřít, budou žít. Neustálá honba za vítězstvím je z těchto pěti nejmenší." -Sun Tzu
"Soldiers lose all fear when they lose all hope." -Sun Tzu
"Si los parlamentarios del enemigo pronuncian discursos llenos de humildad, pero continúa con sus preparativos, es que va a avanzar." -Sun Tzu
"Así es como en la guerra, el estratega victorioso solo busca la batalla después de que la victoria ya se ha ganado, mientras que aquel destinado a la derrota, primero pelea y después busca la victoria." -Sun Tzu
"War doesn't have a permanent dynamic; a water doesn't have a permanent shape." -Sun Tzu
"masking strength with weakness is to be effected by tactical dispositions." -Sun Tzu
"Military tactics are like unto water, for water, in its natural course, runs away from high places, and hastens downwards. So, in war, the way is to avoid what is strong, and to strike at what is weak. Water shapes its course according to the nature of the ground over which it flows. The soldier works out his victory in relation to the foe in which he is facing. Therefore, just as water retains no constant shape, so in warfare, there are no constant conditions. He who can modify his tactics in relation to his opponent, and thereby succeed in winning, may be called a Heaven-born Captain. The Five Elements: Water, Fire, Wood, Metal, Earth, are not always equally predominant. The Four Seasons make way for each other in turn. There are short days, and long. The Moon has its periods of waning, and waxing." -Sun Tzu
"No principle in the world is always right, and no thing is always wrong. What was used yesterday may be rejected today, what is rejected now may be used later on. This use or disuse has no fixed right or wrong. To avail yourself of opportunities at just the right time, responding to events without being set in your ways, is in the domain of wisdom. If your wisdom is insufficient, even if you are widely learned and highly skilled, you'll come to an impasse wherever you go." -Sun Tzu
"A skillful warrior provokes, but he's never provoked." -Sun Tzu
"The enlightened ruler lays his plans well ahead; the good general cultivates his resources." -Sun Tzu
"discuss the art of war.'3 It seems likely, then, that" -Sun Tzu
"Reliance on intelligence alone results in rebelliousness. Exercise of humaneness alone results in weakness. Fixation on trust results in folly. Dependence on the strength of courage results in violence. Excessive sternness of command results in cruelty. When one has all five virtues together, each appropriate to its function, then one can be a military leader." -Sun Tzu
"What is essential in war is victory, not prolonged operations. And therefore the general who understands war is the Minister of the people's fate and arbiter of the nation's destiny." -Sun Tzu
"If your opponent is of choleric temper, seek to irritate him. Pretend to be weak, that he may grow arrogant.'― Sun Tzu, The Art of War" -Sun Tzu
"The spot where we intend to fight must not be made known" -Sun Tzu
"equipaje está perdido, sin sus provisiones está perdido, sin sus bases de suministro, está perdido. 12. No podemos entrar en alianzas hasta estar familiarizados con los designios de nuestros vecinos. 13. No se está en condiciones de conducir un ejército en marcha, a menos que se esté familiarizado con cada aspecto del país que se recorre; con sus montañas y sus bosques, sus trampas" -Sun Tzu
"من وجهة النظر العسكرية، عناصر فن الحرب هي: قياس المسافات ومسح الأرض (لتقدير قوة العدو) تقدير الكميات (حساب حالة العدو) حسابات الأرقام (وضع قيمة رقمية لقوة العدو) المقارنة (المعرفة العلمية لبيان قوتنا مقارنة بقوة العدو) احتمالات النصر (نتيجة المقارنة)" -Sun Tzu
"los que ganan todas las batallas no son realmente profesionales; los que consiguen que se rindan impotentes los ejércitos ajenos sin luchar son los mejores maestros del Arte de la Guerra." -Sun Tzu
"قد يكون التأني والتمهل من الحكمة، لكنه يجلب معه الهدوء والسكون والخمول والكسل. إذا كان النصر يمكن تحقيقه، فالتسرع الأحمق أفضل من التأني الماهر إذا كانت سرعة التحرك تُعتبر أحياناً عملاً طائشاً (لا حكمة تُنتظر منه) فالتباطؤ يعتبر عملا أحمق (سخيفا) بسبب ما يسببه الأخير من استنزاف لموارد الأمة." -Sun Tzu
"Now war is based on deception. Move when it is advantageous and create changes in the situation by dispersal and concentration of forces. When campaigning, be swift as the wind; in leisurely march, majestic as the forest; in raiding and plundering, like fire; in standing, firm as the mountains. As unfathomable as the clouds, move like a thunderbolt. When you plunder the countryside, divide your forces. When you conquer territory, divide the profits. Weigh the situation, then move." -Sun Tzu
"Vojska mají pět jmen: První z nich je Hrozivě silné, druhé je Obrovsky domýšlivé, třetí je Pevné a neochvějné, čtvrté je Bázlivé a podezíravé, páté je Nejisté a slabé." -Sun Tzu
"إن الدفاع ليس تحركا عسكريا بمعنى أن تمد درعك لصد هجمات العدو فقط ولكنه يعني البراعة في الجمع بين صد هجمات العدو وشن الهجوم عليه'." -Sun Tzu
"(5) Which army is stronger?" -Sun Tzu
"[One mark of a great soldier is that he fight on his own terms or fights not at all.77]" -Sun Tzu
"When Lionel Giles began his translation of Sun Tzu's ART OF WAR, the work was virtually unknown in Europe. Its introduction to Europe began in 1782 when a French Jesuit Father living in China, Joseph Amiot, acquired a copy of it, and translated it into French. It was not a good translation because, according to Dr. Giles, '[I]t contains a" -Sun Tzu
"took part in the expedition, and also that its success was largely due to the dash and enterprise of Fu Kai, Ho Lu's younger brother, it is not easy to see how yet another general could have played a very prominent" -Sun Tzu
"cited by Pi I-hsun, we may see in this theory a probable solution of the mystery. Between Ssu-ma Ch`ien and" -Sun Tzu
"An orderly mess is founded on a careful schedule; a bold fear is founded on a potential energy; a strong weakness is founded on the formation of the troops." -Sun Tzu
"Hay que reflexionar y deliberar antes de tomar cualquier decisión." -Sun Tzu
"ألف كتابا عنوانه: (أصول الحرب)، وهو أقدم كتاب عرف عن فن الحرب عموماً، ولا يزال مطلوبا للقراءة في أكاديميات عسكرية كثيرة، استفاد منه (ماوتسى تونج) في زحفه الطويل، وطبقه اليابانيون قبل مهاجمة (بيرل هاربور) البحري الأمريكي وهو كتاب شامل مفيد حتى إن قيادة الطيران الملكي البريطاني وزعته بعد تبسيطه على ضباطها في (سيلان) أثناء الحرب العالمية الثانية." -Sun Tzu
"Many great warriors beat their meat, but only the strongest defeat it." -Sun Tzu
"the good fighter is able to secure himself against defeat, but cannot make certain of defeating the enemy." -Sun Tzu
"A evolução do Homem passa, necessariamente, pela busca do conhecimento." -Sun Tzu
"aplicar con sabiduría el conocimiento de la naturaleza humana en los momentos de confrontación." -Sun Tzu
"- لا تكرر التكتيك الذي فزت به سابقاً، ابتكر غيره او عدله بطريقة غير متوقعة." -Sun Tzu
"Victory belongs to the side that scores most in temple calculations before battle" -Sun Tzu
"يا أيها الفن المقدس: فن السرية والكتمان؛ منك تعلمنا أن نتخفى، فلا يرانا أو يسمعنا عدونا، لنقبض نحن على مصيره في أيدينا." -Sun Tzu
"A whole army may be robbed of its spirit; a commander-in-chief may be robbed of his presence of mind." -Sun Tzu
"a man whose heart is set on returning home will fight to the death against any attempt to bar his way, and is therefore too dangerous an opponent to be tackled." -Sun Tzu
"falcon" -Sun Tzu
"17. Simulated disorder postulates perfect discipline, simulated fear postulates courage; simulated weakness postulates strength. 18. Hiding order beneath the cloak of disorder is simply a question of subdivision; concealing courage under a show of timidity presupposes a fund of latent energy; masking strength with weakness is to be effected by tactical dispositions." -Sun Tzu
"Just as water, which carries a boat from bank to bank, may also be the means of sinking it, so reliance on spies, while production of great results, is oft-times the cause of utter destruction" -Sun Tzu
"stop procastinating xx" -Sun Tzu
"مثل خطى القدر، تلك التي تأتي في رِقة كاملة وفي سرية تامة، فتعلم منها أن تختفي عن العيون، وألا يصدر عنك أي ضوضاء (الهدوء التام)، فبذلك تتحكم في مصير العدو بيديك." -Sun Tzu
"latter accretions are not to be considered part of the original work. Tu Mu's assertion can certainly not be taken as proof.' There is every reason to suppose, then, that the 13 chapters existed in the time of Ssu-ma" -Sun Tzu
"Um soldado experiente, uma vez em marcha, nunca fica desorientado; uma vez que levantou acampamento, nunca fica perplexo;. Daí o ditado: se você conhece seu inimigo e a si mesmo, sua vitória não será posta em dúvida; se você conhece o Céu e a Terra, pode torná-la completa." -Sun Tzu
"The enlightened ruler lays his plans well ahead; the good general cultivates his resources. He controls his soldiers by his authority, knits them together by good faith, and by rewards makes them serviceable. If faith decays, there will be disruption; if rewards are deficient, commands will not be respected." -Sun Tzu
"he not honestly believed the contrary. And it is precisely on such a point that the judgment of an educated Chinaman will carry most weight. Other internal evidence is not far to seek. Thus in XIII. ss. 1, there is an unmistakable allusion to the ancient system" -Sun Tzu
"The highest form of warfareIs to attackStrategy itself;" -Sun Tzu
"of Turenne, deception of the enemy, especially as to the numerical strength of his troops, took a" -Sun Tzu
"combatir y vencer en la batalla no es la excelencia suprema, sino que esta reside en romper la resistencia del enemigo sin luchar." -Sun Tzu
"Toda guerra se basa en el engaño." -Sun Tzu
"There are Five Dangerous Faults which may affect a general:Recklessness, which leads to destruction.Cowardice, which leads to capture.A Hasty Temper, which can be provoked by insults.A Delicacy of Honor, which is sensitive to shame.Oversolicitude for His Men, which exposes him to worry and trouble.These are the Five Besetting Sins of a general, ruinous to the conduct of war. When an army is overthrown and its leader slain, the cause will surely be found among these Five Dangerous Faults. Let them be a subject of meditation." -Sun Tzu
"(مئة انتصار في مئة معركة ليست بالبراعة القصوى أما إخضاع الآخر بلا معركة فهو البراعة القصوى)." -Sun Tzu
"not all quotes on the internet are real" -Sun Tzu
"When the enemy is at ease, be able to weary him; when well fed, to starve him; when at rest, to make him move. Appear at places to which he must hasten; move swiftly where he does not expect you. That you may march a thousand li without wearying yourself is because you travel where there is no enemy. Go into emptiness, strike voids, bypass what he defends, hit him where he does not expect you.To be certain to take what you attack is to attack a place the enemy does not protect. To be certain to hold what you defend is to defend a place the enemy does not attack. Therefore, against those skilled in attack, an enemy does not know where to defend; against the experts in defense, the enemy does not know where to attack. Subtle and insubstantial, the expert leaves no trace; divinely mysterious, he is inaudible. Thus he is master of his enemy's fate." -Sun Tzu
"Those skilled in war bring the enemy to the field of battle and are not brought there by him. One able to make the enemy come of his own accord does so by offering him some advantage. And one able to prevent him from coming does so by hurting him.If you are able to hold critical points on his strategic roads the enemy cannot come. Therefore Master Wang said: 'When a cat is at the rat hole, ten thousand rats dare not come out; when a tiger guards the ford, ten thousand deer cannot cross." -Sun Tzu
"If you know neither the enemy nor yourself, you will succumb in every battle. [Chang Yu said: 'Knowing the enemy enables you to take the offensive, knowing yourself enables you to stand on the defensive.' He adds: 'Attack is the secret of defense; defense is the planning of an attack.' It would be hard to find a better epitome of the root-principle of war.]" -Sun Tzu
"Si vos ennemis sont plus puissants et plus forts que vous, vous ne les attaquerez point, vous éviterez avec un grand soin ce qui peut conduire à un engagement général ; vous cacherez toujours avec une extrême attention l'état où vous vous trouverez." -Sun Tzu
"Generally, management of many is the same as management of few. It is a matter of organization." -Sun Tzu
"- حين تواجه عدوا قويا لا تتحرك حتى تجد فرصة سانحة ولا تحارب حتى يخرج عن طوره ويهاجم!" -Sun Tzu
"- لا تحارب في الظروف الجوية المتطرفة التي يألفها العدو ولا تألفها قواتك!" -Sun Tzu
"Ten, kdo často vydává odměny svým vojákům, je v tísni." -Sun Tzu
"Conservare la disciplina e la calma, attendere i primi segnali di disordine e chiasso nell'esercito nemico: in questo consiste l'arte dell'autocontrollo." -Sun Tzu
"was profound insight of a spiritual nature that could help me live my everyday life unconstrained by conflict, either with others or within myself. These" -Sun Tzu
"Begin by seizing something which your opponent holds dear; then he will be amenable to your will. Rapidity is the essence of war: take advantage of the enemy's unreadiness, make your way by unexpected routes, and attack unguarded spots." -Sun Tzu
"مفتاح النجاح الأول هو خداع العدو: 'كل حرب تقوم على أساس الخداع ولهذا حين تكون قادراً على الهجوم تظاهر بعدم القدرة، وحين تقوم بتحريك القوات تظاهر بأنك لا تقوم بأي فعل" -Sun Tzu
"Las armas son instrumentos de mala suerte; emplearlas por mucho tiempo producirá calamidades." -Sun Tzu
"Recordar siempre el peligro cuando estás a salvo y el caos en tiempos de orden, permanece atento al peligro y al caos mientras no tengan todavía forma y evítalos antes de que se presenten; ésta es la mejor estrategia de todas." -Sun Tzu
"To a surrounded enemy you must leave a way of escape. Show him there is a road to safety, and so create in his mind the idea that there is an alternative to death. Then strike." -Sun Tzu
"cuando te conoces a ti mismo y conoces a los demás, la victoria no es un peligro; cuando conoces el cielo y la tierra, la victoria es inagotable." -Sun Tzu
"When the general is weak and without authority; when his orders are not clear and distinct; when there are no fixes duties assigned to officers and men, and the ranks are formed in a slovenly haphazard manner, the result is utter disorganization." -Sun Tzu
"There are five traps for a general: recklessness, cowardice, incendiary character, refinement of honor and the care for his own people" -Sun Tzu
"A military operation involves deception. Even though you are competent, appear to be incompetent. Though effective, appear to be ineffective." -Sun Tzu
"To begin by bluster, but afterwards to take fright at the enemy's numbers, shows a supreme lack of intelligence." -Sun Tzu
"Conseguir cien victorias en cien batallas no es la medida de la habilidad: someter al enemigo sin luchar es la suprema excelencia." -Sun Tzu
"In respect to the employment of troops, ground may be classified as dispersive, frontier, key, communicating, focal, serious, difficult, encircled, and death.When a feudal lord fights in his own territory, he is in dispersive ground. Here officers and men long to return to their nearby homes. When he makes but a shallow penetration into enemy territory he is in frontier ground. Ground equally advantageous for the enemy or me to occupy is key ground. Ground equally accessible to both the enemy and me is communicating. This is level and extensive ground in which one may come and go, sufficient in extent for battle and to erect opposing fortifications. When a state is enclosed by three other states its territory is focal. He who first gets control of it will gain the support of All-under-Heaven. When the army has penetrated deep into hostile territory, leaving far behind many enemy cities and towns, it is in serious ground. When the army traverses mountains, forests, precipitous country, or marches through defiles, marshlands, or swamps, or any place where the going is hard, it is in difficult ground. Ground to which access is constricted, where the way out is tortuous, and where a small enemy force can strike my larger one is called 'encircled.' Ground in which the army survives only if it fights with the courage of desperation is called 'death.'Therefore, do not fight in dispersive ground; do not stop in the frontier borderlands. Do not attack an enemy who occupies key ground; in communicating ground do not allow your formations to become separated. In focal ground, ally with neighboring states; in deep ground, plunder. In difficult ground, press on; in encircled ground, devise stratagems; in death ground, fight. In dispersive ground I would unify the determination of the army. In frontier ground I would keep my forces closely linked. In key ground I would hasten up my rear elements. In communicating ground I would pay strict attention to my defenses. In focal ground I would strengthen my alliances. I reward my prospective allies with valuables and silks and bind them with solemn covenants. I abide firmly by the treaties and then my allies will certainly aid me. In serious ground I would ensure a continuous flow of provisions. In difficult ground I would press on over the roads. In encircled ground I would block the points of access and egress. It is military doctrine that an encircling force must leave a gap to show the surrounded troops there is a way out, so that they will not be determined to fight to the death. Then, taking advantage of this, strike. Now, if I am in encircled ground, and the enemy opens a road in order to tempt my troops to take it, I close this means of escape so that my officers and men will have a mind to fight to the death. In death ground I could make it evident that there is no chance of survival. For it is the nature of soldiers to resist when surrounded; to fight to the death when there is no alternative, and when desperate to follow commands implicitly." -Sun Tzu
"[Nota bene: this was in 207 B.C., and may well cause us to blush for the Christian armies that entered Peking in 1900 A.D.]" -Sun Tzu
"War is based on deception; move determines advantage; divide and unity are the elements of change." -Sun Tzu
"very well represent a collected edition of these lumped together with the original work. It is also possible," -Sun Tzu
"18. Hence, when able to attack, we must seem unable; when using our forces, we must seem inactive; when we are near, we must make the enemy believe we are far away; when far away, we must make him believe we are near." -Sun Tzu
"Know the enemy, know yourself; your victory will never be endangered. Know the ground, know the weather; your victory will then be total." -Sun Tzu
"swooping" -Sun Tzu
"Ser violento al principio y terminar después temiendo a los propios soldados es el colmo de la ineptitud." -Sun Tzu
"Hay que dejarle una salida a un ejército rodeado.Muéstrales una manera de salvar la vida para que no estén dispuestos a luchar hasta la muerte, y así podrás aprovecharte para atacarles.No presiones a un enemigo desesperado.Un animal agotado seguirá luchando, pues esa es la ley de la naturaleza." -Sun Tzu
"8. There are not more than five primary colors (blue, yellow, red, white, and black), yet in combination they produce more hues than can ever been seen." -Sun Tzu
"Strategy without tactics is the slowest route to victory. Tactics without strategy is the noise before defeat." -Sun Tzu
"الدمار ليس مقصوراً على الأذى البدني، ابذل الإغراءات الكثيرة لأفضل وأحكم رجال العدو فيصبح بدون مستشارين. املأ بلده بالخونة الذين يقيضون نظام حكمه. قم بترتيب المؤامرات والخدع، وازرع الشك بين الحاكم وبين وزرائه. مستخدماً كل حيلة ذكية، تسبب في حدوث التلف والتدهور في ثروات شعبه وخزانته. أفسد أخلاقه عبر هدايا ماكرة تؤدي به إلى الجشع وطلب المزيد والمغالاة. أزعج باله ولا ترحه بتقديم امرأة لعوب فاتنة الجمال له. غرر به فاجعله يخرج بجنوده إلى مكان تلحق به شديد الأذى (المناورات كبيرة عدد الجند تستنزف من موارد الدولة. أرهق خزينته العامة وبدد موارده وأصوله المالية. احرص على بث روح الفرقة بين صفوفه ولا تسمح له بالوحدة الداخلية)." -Sun Tzu
"Hence to fight and conquer in all your battles is not supreme excellence; supreme excellence consists in breaking the enemy's" -Sun Tzu
"• لاتكرر التكتيك الذي فزت به سابقاً، ابتكر غيره أو عدله بطريقة غير متوقعة. • بناء على مدى توافق الظروف، على المرء أن يعدل خططه. • لا تفتح على نفسك عدة جبهات في وقت واحد.. تحالف مع أحد الأعداء حتى تنتهي من الآخر. • الاحتفاظ بجاسوس في الداخل يعادل جيشاً بأكمله! • وأفضل الجواسيس من يحمل جنسية العدو ولكنه يؤمن بأهدافك! • القتال والانتصار في جميع المعارك ليس هو قمة المهارة، التفوق الأعظم هو كسر مقاومة العدو دون أي قتال. • قد تعرف السبيل إلى قهر عدوك، دون أن تكون قادراً بالضرورة على عمل ذلك. • اتخاذك الوضع الدفاعي يشير إلى قوة غير كافية، بينما الهجوم يستلزم توفر القوة الزائدة. • المقاتل الباسل سيكون رهيباً في هجومه، متأنياً عند اتخاذه لقراراته. • قارن بحرص جيش العدو بجيشك، لتقف على نقاط القوة المفرطة، وتلك الناقصة." -Sun Tzu
"All men can see the tactics whereby I conquer, but what none can see is the strategy out of which victory is evolved" -Sun Tzu
"Se há justas razões para se encolerizar, que o faça, mas não imite a ferocidade do tigre." -Sun Tzu
"When senior officers are angry and insubordinate, and on encountering the enemy rush into battle with no understanding of the feasibility of engaging and without awaiting orders from the commander, the army is in a state of collapse." -Sun Tzu
"Protegernos contra la derrota está en nuestras manos, pero la oportunidad de derrotar al enemigo proviene siempre del enemigo." -Sun Tzu
"أن لعب الحرب: (عبارة عن محاولات للقفز إلى المستقبل بفهم الماضي)،" -Sun Tzu
"War is like a fire--if you do not put it out, it will burn itself out." -Sun Tzu
"If you know the enemy and know yourself, you need not fear the result of a hundred battles" -Sun Tzu
"stipulations" -Sun Tzu
"Confirmation of the ground is of the greatest assistance in battle. Therefore, to estimate the enemy situation and to calculate distances and the degree of difficulty of the terrain so as to control victory are virtues of the superior general." -Sun Tzu
"If I am able to determine the enemy's dispositions while at the same time I conceal my own then I can concentrate and he must divide." -Sun Tzu
"25. Considera teus soldados como teus filhos e eles te seguirão até o mais profundo dos vales; cuida deles como teus próprios amados filhos e eles estarão a teu lado, até mesmo para a morte." -Sun Tzu
"London." -Sun Tzu
"Throw the troops into a position from which there is no escape and even when faced with death they will not flee. For if prepared to die, what can they not achieve? Then officers and men together put forth their utmost efforts. In a desperate situation they fear nothing; when there is no way out they stand firm. Deep in a hostile land they are bound together, and there, where there is no alternative, they will engage the enemy in hand to hand combat.Thus, such troops need no encouragement to be vigilant. Without extorting their support the general obtains it; without inviting their affection he gains it; without demanding their trust he wins it." -Sun Tzu
"The strong and the weak can serve, thanks to the principles of the ground." -Sun Tzu
"Kenali dirimu dan kenali musuhmu, maka dalam seratus pertempuran pun kamu tidak akan terkalahkan" -Sun Tzu
"Thus the highest form of generalship is to balk the enemy's plans; the next best is to prevent the junction of the enemy's forces; the next in order is to attack the enemy's army in the field; and the worst policy of all is to besiege walled cities." -Sun Tzu
"If words of command are not clear and distinct, if orders are not thoroughly understood, the general is to blame." -Sun Tzu
"Generally in the case of armies you wish to strike, cities you wish to attack, and people you wish to assassinate, you must know the names of the garrison commander, the staff officers, the ushers, gate keepers, and the bodyguards. You must instruct your agents to inquire into these matters in minute detail. If you wish to conduct offensive war you must know the men employed by the enemy. Are they wise or stupid, clever or clumsy? Having assessed their qualities, you prepare appropriate measures." -Sun Tzu
"Those unable to understand the dangers inherent in employing troops are equally unable to understand the advantageous ways of doing so." -Sun Tzu
"19. Hence, when able to attack, we must seem unable; when using our forces, we must seem inactive; when we are near, we must make the enemy believe we are far away; when far away, we must make him believe we are near." -Sun Tzu
"يشتمل هذا الكتاب على ثلاثة عشر بنداً موزعة على الشكل التالي: الخطط، العمليات الحربية، الاستراتيجية الهجومية، الترتيبات، القوة، نقاط ضعيفة ونقاط قوية، الصراع المسلح، المتغيرات التسع، السير، في معالم الأرض، أنواع الأرض التسعة، الهجوم بالنار، استخدام العملاء السريين." -Sun Tzu
"When Lionel Giles began his translation of Sun Tzu's ART OF WAR, the work was virtually unknown in Europe. Its introduction to Europe began in 1782 when a French Jesuit Father living in China, Joseph Amiot, acquired a copy of it, and translated" -Sun Tzu
"不战而屈人之兵，善之善者也。" -Sun Tzu
"Las armas son instrumentos de mal augurio," -Sun Tzu
"The general who in advancing does not seek personal fame, and in withdrawing is not concerned with avoiding punishment, but whose only purpose is to protect the people and promote the best interests of his sovereign, is the precious jewel of the state." -Sun Tzu
"The 'five variations' are the following: A road, although it may be the shortest, is not to be followed if one knows it is dangerous and there is the contingency of ambush.An army, although it may be attacked, is not to be attacked if it is in desperate circumstances and there is the possibility that the enemy will fight to the death. A city, although isolated and susceptible to attack, is not to be attacked if there is the probability that it is well stocked with provisions, defended by crack troops under command of a wise general, that its ministers are loyal and their plans unfathomable.Ground, although it may be contested, is not to be fought for if one knows that after getting it, it will be difficult to defend, or that he gains no advantage by obtaining it, but will probably be counter-attacked and suffer casualties.The orders of a sovereign, although they should be followed, are not to be followed if the general knows they contain the danger of harmful superintendence of affairs from the capital. These five contingencies must be managed as they arise and as circumstances dictate at the time, for they cannot be settled beforehand." -Sun Tzu
"Hence a wise general makes a point of foraging on the enemy. One cartload of the enemy's provisions is equivalent to twenty of one's own, and likewise a single PICUL of his provender is equivalent to twenty from one's own store." -Sun Tzu
"O ideal, e o que desejamos para todos os seres humanos, é que eles vivam em paz, em harmonia, num planeta que tenha recursos suficientes para satisfazer as necessidades básicas de todos." -Sun Tzu
"He who does not know theevilsof war cannot appreciate its benefits," -Sun Tzu
"...existen cinco rasgos que son peligrosos en los generales. Los que están dispuestos a morir pueden perder la vida; los que quieren preservar la vida pueden ser hechos prisioneros; los que son dados a los apasionamientos irracionales pueden ser ridiculizados; los que son muy puritanos pueden ser deshonrados; los que son compasivos pueden ser turbados." -Sun Tzu
"19.Thus one who is skillful at keeping the enemy on the move maintains deceitful appearances, according to which the enemy will act. He sacrifices something, that the enemy may snatch at it. 20.By holding out baits, he keeps him on the march; then with a body of picked men he lies in wait for him." -Sun Tzu
"These are: (1) The Moral Law; (2) Heaven; (3) Earth; (4) The Commander; (5) Method and discipline. 5. The MORAL LAW causes the people to be in complete accord with their ruler, so that they will follow him regardless of their lives, undismayed by any danger. 6. HEAVEN signifies night and day, cold and heat, times and seasons. 7. EARTH comprises distances, great and small; danger and security; open ground and narrow passes; the chances of life and death. 8. The COMMANDER stands for the virtues of wisdom, sincerity, benevolence, courage and strictness. 9. By METHOD AND DISCIPLINE are to be understood the marshaling of the army in its proper subdivisions, the graduations of rank among the officers, the maintenance of roads by which supplies may reach the army, and the control of military expenditure. 10. These five heads should be familiar to every general: he who knows them will be victorious; he who knows them not will fail. 11. Therefore, in your deliberations, when seeking to determine the military conditions, let them be made the basis of a comparison, in this wise: -- 12. (1) Which of the two sovereigns is imbued with the Moral law? (2) Which of the two generals has most ability? (3) With whom lie the advantages derived from Heaven and Earth? (4) On which side is discipline most rigorously enforced? (5) Which army is stronger? (6) On which side are officers and men more highly trained? (7) In which army is there the greater constancy both in reward and punishment? 13." -Sun Tzu
"17. All warfare is based on deception." -Sun Tzu
"When two countries go to war, they are naturally inclined to make an ostentatious display of their strength. Yet our spies have seen nothing but old age and infirmity. This is surely some ruse on the part of the enemy, and it would be unwise for us to attack." -Sun Tzu
"Now, as we all know, the good field commander is the chief support of the realm. If the support is sturdy on all four sides, then the realm will be strong. But if the support is flawed, the realm will always be unstable. Therefore, there are several ways the ruler may imperil his armies: If he fails to understand when the army cannot advance or retreat, and he orders them to do so. (This is a classic case of hobbling the troops.) If he fails to understand the respective tasks of his Three Armies,7 and he governs them all in the same way, then his army officers will be confused. And if he fails to see how to balance and synchronize the operations of his Three Armies, then his officers will doubt his competence. Once the Three Armies are not only confused but also suspicious, then trouble from the local lords will surely ensue.8 (This is a classic case of 'inducing chaos in the army and throwing victory away.') To realize victory, go by five paths: (1) by figuring out whether it is possible to fight or not; (2) by recognizing how many troops are needed for the task;9 (3) by unifying the aims and ambitions of the high- and low-ranking; (4) by being prepared for the unexpected; and (5) by the ruler's refusal to meddle with his able commanders.10 These five--they are the Way to taste victory. And so I say, 'Know the enemy; know yourself, and you will meet with no danger in a hundred battles. If you do not know the enemy, but you know yourself, then you will win and lose by turns. If you know neither the enemy nor yourself, you will lose every battle, certainly." -Sun Tzu
"Those who know themselves, but not the enemy, shall achieve the same amount of defeats and victories." -Sun Tzu
"(1) Which of the two sovereigns is imbued with the Moral law? (2) Which of the two generals has most ability? (3) With whom lie the advantages derived from Heaven and Earth? (4) On which side is discipline most rigorously enforced? (5) Which army is stronger? (6) On which side are officers and men more highly trained? (7) In which army is there the greater constancy both in reward and punishment?" -Sun Tzu
"12. (1) Which of the two sovereigns is imbued with the Moral law? (2) Which of the two generals has most ability? (3) With whom lie the advantages derived from Heaven and Earth? (4) On which side is discipline most rigorously enforced? (5) Which army is stronger? (6) On which side are officers and men more highly trained?" -Sun Tzu
"In the practical art of war, the best thing of all is to take the enemy's country whole and intact; to shatter and destroy it is not so good." -Sun Tzu
"Trestáš-li své muže dříve, než k tobě stačili přilnout, nepodřídí se ti. A nepodřídí-li se ti, nebudou ti k užitku. Netrestáš-li však vojáky ani po té, co k tobě přilnuli, nebudou ti k ničemu." -Sun Tzu
"Perform your calculations for everything liable to calculation, but also think very deeply about what people are capable of." -Sun Tzu
"The nature of water is that it avoids heights and hastens to the lowlands. When a dam is broken, the water cascades with irresistible force. Now the shape of an army resembles water. Take advantage of the enemy's unpreparedness; attack him when he does not expect it; avoid his strength and strike his emptiness, and like water, none can oppose you." -Sun Tzu
"El primero de estos factores es la doctrina; el segundo, el tiempo; el tercero, el terreno; el cuarto, el mando; y el quinto, la disciplina." -Sun Tzu
"Una operación militar implica engaño. Aunque seas competente, aparenta ser incompetente. Aunque seas efectivo, muéstrate ineficaz." -Sun Tzu
"تقول: 'إن إخضاع العدو من دون قتال هو أرفع امتياز' والعمل العسكري هو أقل الطرق جودة لإخضاع العدو،" -Sun Tzu
"In war, appreciate victory, not a prolonged campaign." -Sun Tzu
"Beherrscht er die Kriegskunst, verlässt er sich nicht darauf, dass der Feind nicht kommt. Er verlässt sich auf sich selbst und ist auf den Feind vorbereitet. Er verlässt sich nicht auf einen Angriff, der nicht stattfindet, sondern darauf, dass er selbst nicht angegriffen werden kann." -Sun Tzu
"Speed is the essence of War. Exploit the enemy's unpreparedness; attack him unawares; take an unexpected route." -Sun Tzu
"The skillful leader subdues the enemy's troops without any fighting; he captures their cities without laying siege to them; he overthrows their kingdom without lengthy operations in the field. With his forces intact he will dispute the mastery of the Empire, and thus, without losing a man, his triumph will be complete." -Sun Tzu
"Amid the turmoil and tumult of battle, there may be seeming disorder and yet no real disorder at all; amid confusion and chaos, your array may be without head or tail, yet it will be proof against defeat." -Sun Tzu
"Article XIIIDe la concorde et de la discordeLes appointements de tant d'officiers, la paie journalière de tant de soldats et l'entretien de tout le monde creusent peu à peu les greniers et les coffres du prince comme ceux du peuple, et ne sauraient manquer de les épuiser bientôt Être plusieurs années à observer ses ennemis, ou à faire la guerre, c'est ne point aimer le peuple, c'est être l'ennemi de son pays ; toutes les dépenses, toutes les peines, tous les travaux et toutes les fatigues de plusieurs années n'aboutissent le plus souvent, pour les vainqueurs eux-mêmes, qu'à une journée de triomphe et de gloire, celle où ils ont vaincu.p97" -Sun Tzu
"Numerical weakness comes from having to prepare against possible attacks; numerical strength, from compelling our adversary to make these preparations against us." -Sun Tzu
"Él debe ser capaz de confundir a sus oficiales y soldados con informes y presentaciones falsas, y así mantenerlos en la ignorancia total." -Sun Tzu
"If one wishes to feign disorder to entice an enemy, he must himself be well-disciplined. Only then can he feign confusion. One who wishes to simulate cowardice and lie in wait for his enemy must be courageous, for only then is he able to simulate fear. One who wishes to appear to be weak in order to make his enemy arrogant must be extremely strong. Only then can he feign weakness.Order or disorder depends on organization; courage or cowardice on circumstances; strength or weakness on dispositions. When troops gain a favorable situation the coward is brave; if it be lost, the brave become cowards. In the art of war there are no fixed rules. These can only be worked out according to circumstances.Thus, those skilled at making the enemy move do so by creating a situation to which he must conform; they entice him with something he is certain to take, and with lures of ostensible profit they await him in strength. Therefore a skilled commander seeks victory form the situation and does not demand it of his subordinates." -Sun Tzu
"the soldier works out his victory in relation to the foe whom he is facing." -Sun Tzu
"In respect of military method, we have, firstly, Measurement; secondly, Estimation of quantity; thirdly, Calculation; fourthly, Balancing of chances; fifthly, Victory." -Sun Tzu
"Every commander is aware of this five fundamental determinants: the path, the heaven, the earth, the leadership and discipline" -Sun Tzu
"لاتكرر التكتيك الذي فزت به سابقاً، ابتكر غيره أو عدله بطريقة غير متوقعة. • بناء على مدى توافق الظروف، على المرء أن يعدل خططه. • لا تفتح على نفسك عدة جبهات في وقت واحد.. تحالف مع أحد الأعداء حتى تنتهي من الآخر. • الاحتفاظ بجاسوس في الداخل يعادل جيشاً بأكمله! • وأفضل الجواسيس من يحمل جنسية العدو ولكنه يؤمن بأهدافك! • القتال والانتصار في جميع المعارك ليس هو قمة المهارة، التفوق الأعظم هو كسر مقاومة العدو دون أي قتال. • قد تعرف السبيل إلى قهر عدوك، دون أن تكون قادراً بالضرورة على عمل ذلك. • اتخاذك الوضع الدفاعي يشير إلى قوة غير كافية، بينما الهجوم يستلزم توفر القوة الزائدة. • المقاتل الباسل سيكون رهيباً في هجومه، متأنياً عند اتخاذه لقراراته. • قارن بحرص جيش العدو بجيشك، لتقف على نقاط القوة المفرطة، وتلك الناقصة. • إذا كنا - في خضم مشاكلنا - مستعدين لانتهاز أي فرصة قد تتاح لنا، فيمكننا أن نُخرج أنفسنا من مأزقنا. • اغزُ البلاد الخصيبة من أجل إمداد جيشك بالطعام. • عمل القائد هو أن يبقى هادئاً فيضمن السرية، وأن يكون مستقيماً وعادلاً، فيضمن استقرار النظام العام. • الحاكم المستنير يضع خططه مقدماً، والقائد الناجح يرعى مصادره وجنوده (عن طريق الثواب والعقاب والمكافآت). •" -Sun Tzu
"Kemenangan terbaik adalah kemenangan yang tidak perlu berperang" -Sun Tzu
"Si no puedes ser fuerte, pero tampoco sabes ser débil, serás derrotado." -Sun Tzu
"الغرض الأساس من الدفاع هو خلق الظروف التي تمكنك من شن الهجوم." -Sun Tzu
"O general que avança sem cobiçar a fama e retrocede sem temer a desonra, cujo pensamento é apenas proteger sua terra e prestar bom serviço a seu soberano, é a joia do reino." -Sun Tzu
"The terrain leads to measurements; The measurements lead to estimates; The estimates lead to calculations; The calculations lead to weighing the options; The weighing leads to victory.5" -Sun Tzu
"Article VIDu plein et du vide'La grande science est de lui faire vouloir tout ce que vous souhaitez qu'il fasse, et de lui fournir, sans qu'il s'en aperçoive, tous les moyens de vous seconder.'p32" -Sun Tzu
"In the midst of chaos, there is also opportunity." -Sun Tzu
"How victory may be produced for them out of the enemy's own tactics - that is what the multitude cannot comprehend." -Sun Tzu
"1. Sun Tzu said: The art of war is of vital importance to the State. 2. It is a matter of life and death, a road either to safety or to ruin. Hence it is a subject of inquiry which can on no account be neglected. 3. The art of war, then, is governed by five constant factors, to be taken into account in one's deliberations, when seeking to determine the conditions obtaining in the field. 4. These are: (1) The Moral Law; (2) Heaven; (3) Earth; (4) The Commander; (5) Method and discipline." -Sun Tzu
"When doing battle, seek a quick victory. A protracted battle will blunt weapons and dampen ardor. If troops lay siege to a walled city, their strength will be exhausted. If the army is exposed to a prolonged campaign, the nation's resources will not suffice.4 When weapons are blunted and ardor dampened, strength exhausted and resources depleted, the neighboring rulers will take advantage of these complications.5" -Sun Tzu
"a skilful general given free rein by the ruler, brings victory." -Sun Tzu
"imbued" -Sun Tzu
"He who exercises no forethought but makes light of his opponents is sure to be captured by them." -Sun Tzu
"Now the troops of those adept in war are used like the 'Simultaneously Responding' snake of Mount Ch'ang. When struck on the head its tail attacks; when struck on the tail, its head attacks, when struck in the centre bot head and tail attack." -Sun Tzu
"no combatas en un terreno de dispersión, no te detengas en un terreno ligero, no ataques en un terreno clave (ocupado por el enemigo), no dejes que tus tropas sean divididas en un terreno de comunicación. En terrenos de intersección establece comunicaciones; en terrenos difíciles, entra aprovisionado; en terrenos desfavorables, continúa marchando; en terrenos cercados, haz planes; en terrenos mortales, lucha." -Sun Tzu
"Thus, to take a long and circuitous route, after enticing the enemy out of the way, and though starting after him, to contrive to reach the goal before him, shows knowledge of the artifice of deviation." -Sun Tzu
"the victorious strategist only seeks battle after the victory has been won, whereas he who is destined to defeat first fights and afterwards looks for victory." -Sun Tzu
"Field Marshal Bernard Montgomery, victor of El Alamein and commander of land forces on D-Day, wrote extensively on The Art of War in his monumental A History of Warfare." -Sun Tzu
"he will win who knows when to fight, and when not to fight" -Sun Tzu
"Cuando las órdenes son razonables, justas, sencillas, claras y consecuentes, existe una satisfacción recíproca entre el líder y el grupo." -Sun Tzu
"I heard that in war, rushing is madness, but I've never seen postponing that was wise." -Sun Tzu
"Invulnerability depends on us, vulnerability on ouradversary." -Sun Tzu
"Hence, when able to attack, we must seem unable; when using our forces, we must seem inactive; when we are near, we must make the enemy believe we are far away; when far away, we must make him believe we are near. (LP 19)" -Sun Tzu
"If one trusts solely to brave generals who love fighting, this will cause trouble. If one relies solely on those who are cautious, their frightened hearts will find it difficult to control the situation. Now the method of employing men is to use the avaricious and the stupid, the wise and the brave, and to give responsibility to each in situations that suit him. Do not charge people to do what they cannot do. Select them and give them responsibilities commensurate with their abilities. He who relies on the situation uses his men in fighting as one rolls logs or stones. now the nature of logs and stones is that one stable ground they are static; on unstable ground, they move. If square, they stop; if round, they roll." -Sun Tzu
"Gobernar sobre muchas personas como si fueran poco es una cuestión de dividirlas en grupos o sectores: es organización." -Sun Tzu
"Kenali dirimu dan kenali musuhmu, maka dalam seratus pertempuran pun kamu tidak akan terkalahkan." -Sun Tzu
"war teaches us to rely not on the likelihood of the enemy's not coming, but on our own readiness to receive him; not on the chance of his not attacking, but rather on the fact that we have made our position unassailable." -Sun Tzu
"• الاحتفاظ بجاسوس في الداخل يعادل جيشاً بأكمله!" -Sun Tzu
"We call the 'ruler's treasure' the commander who advances without any thought of winning personal fame for himself, and who withdraws despite the prospect of punishment, as his sole concern is to protect his men and promote his ruler's interests." -Sun Tzu
"Now in order to kill the enemy, our men must be roused to anger; that there may be advantage from defeating the enemy, they must have their rewards." -Sun Tzu
"When the helper is strong, the nation is secure; when the helper is weak, the nation is in peril." -Sun Tzu
"Muzaffer olacak bir ordu önce zafer kazanacağı ortamı yaratır, sonra düşmanla savaşa girişir; yenilecek ordu önce düşmana savaş açar, sonra savaş sırasında galip gelecek bir şans doğmasını bekler." -Sun Tzu
"A wise general is a master of fate; he holds in his hands peace or destruction of his people." -Sun Tzu
"35. It is the business of a general to be quiet and thus ensure secrecy; upright and just, and thus maintain order." -Sun Tzu
"El arte de la guerra se basa en el engaño. Por lo tanto, cuando es capaz de atacar, ha de aparentar incapacidad; cuando las tropas se mueven, aparentar inactividad. Si está cerca del enemigo, ha de hacerle creer que está lejos; si está lejos, aparentar que se está cerca. Poner cebos para atraer al enemigo." -Sun Tzu
"Move only if there is a real advantage to be gained." -Sun Tzu
"Victories of a skillful warrior aren't extraordinary, but flawless because they're unavoidable." -Sun Tzu
"Strategi tanpa taktik adalah seperti rencana tanpa tindakan" -Sun Tzu
"Where the army is, prices are high; when prices rise the wealth of the people is exhausted. When wealth is exhausted the peasantry will be afflicted with urgent exactions." -Sun Tzu
"Article XIIIDe la concorde et de la discordeUne armée sans agents secrets est un homme sans yeux ni oreilles.p104" -Sun Tzu
"A path of war is the path of deception:-when you're strong, pretend to be weak-when you're close, pretend to be afar -if the enemy is strong, avoid him-if he's angry, confuse him-if his man are united, stir the conflict within them" -Sun Tzu
"Plans and projects for harming the enemy are not confined to any one method. Sometimes entice his wise and virtuous men away so that he has no counsellors. Or send treacherous people to his country to wreck his administration. Sometimes use cunning deceptions to alienate his ministers from the sovereign. Or send skilled craftsmen to encourage his people to exhaust their wealth. Or present him with licentious musicians and dancers to change his customs. Or give him beautiful women to bewilder him. The wise general wearies his enemies by keeping them constantly occupied, and makes them rush about by offering them ostensible advantages." -Sun Tzu
"Victory is the main object in war. If this is long delayed, weapons are blunted and morale depressed. When troops attack cities, their strength will be exhausted.When the army engages in protracted campaigns the resources of the state will not suffice.When your weapons are dulled and ardor damped, your strength exhausted and treasure spent, neighboring rulers will take advantage of your distress to act. And even though you have wise counsellors, none will be able to lay good plans for the future." -Sun Tzu
"Energy may be likened to the bending of a crossbow; decision, to the releasing of a trigger." -Sun Tzu
"The responsibility of setting an army in motion must devolve on the general alone; if advance and retreat are controlled from the Palace, brilliant results will hardly be achieved. Hence the god-like ruler and the enlightened monarch are content to play a humble part in furthering their country's cause [lit., kneel down to push the chariot wheel].' This means that 'in matters lying outside the zenana, the decision of the military commander must be absolute.' Chang Yu also quote the saying: 'Decrees from the Son of Heaven do not penetrate the walls of a camp.']" -Sun Tzu
"Karşısındakini ve kendini bilen hiçbir savaşta tehlikeye düşmez; karşısındakini bilmeyen, sadece kendini bilen bir kazanır, bir kaybeder; karşısındakini de, kendini de bilmeyen her savaşta mutlaka tehlikeye düşer." -Sun Tzu
"El mayor mérito no consiste en ver la victoria cuando ya está clara para todo el mundo; la mayor de las victorias no es, en absoluto, la que es aclamada por todos sin excepción.No se quiere mucha fuerza levantar una pluma; no hay que tener una visión perfecta para ver el sol, ni un oído agudo para escuchar un trueno.Estar preparado para cualquier circunstancia es lo que garantiza una victoria segura, porque significa que estáis combatiendo contra un enemigo que ya está derrotado." -Sun Tzu
"Know the enemy,Know yourself,And victoryIs never in doubt,Not in a hundred battles." -Sun Tzu
"Defeat your enemy from within." -Sun Tzu
"Todos os soldados cativos devem ser tratados com magnanimidade e ainceridade, para que possam vir a servir-nos." -Sun Tzu
"Those who don't know themselves nor the enemy shall suffer failure in every battle." -Sun Tzu
"If you cannot completely thwart the enemy's plans, try to disrupt their alliances." -Sun Tzu
"En la guerra, el verdadero objetivo es alcanzar la victoria, y no realizar campañas largas." -Sun Tzu
"As oportunidades multiplicam-se à medida que são agarradas." -Sun Tzu
"- كن مستعدا لتصيد أخطاء العدو؛ فقد لا يأتي النصر بدونها." -Sun Tzu
"Los buenos generales son de otra manera: se comprometen hasta la muerte, pero no se aferran a la esperanza de sobrevivir; actúan de acuerdo con los acontecimientos en forma racional y realista sin dejarse llevar por las emociones ni estar sujetos a quedar confundidos. Cuando ven una buena oportunidad, son como tigres, en caso contrario cierran sus puertas. Su acción y su no acción son cuestiones de estrategia y no pueden ser complacidos ni enfadados." -Sun Tzu
"Secure your victory by attacking indefensible position." -Sun Tzu
"Le contentement et la santé, qui sont la suite ordinaire d'une bonne nourriture prise sous un ciel pur, donnent du courage et de la force au soldat, tandis que la tristesse, le mécontentement et les maladies l'épuisent, l'énervent, le rendent pusillanime et le découragent entièrement.' p57" -Sun Tzu
"If you know the enemy and know yourself, you need not fear the result of a hundredbattles. If you know yourself but not the enemy, for every victory gained you will alsosuffer a defeat. If you know neither the enemy nor yourself, you will succumb in everybattle." -Sun Tzu
"If your opponent is of choleric temper, seek to irritate him. Pretend to be weak, that he may grow arrogant" -Sun Tzu
"One who sets the entire army in motion to chase an advantage will not attain it." -Sun Tzu
"Supreme excellence consists in breaking the enemy's resistance without fighting." -Sun Tzu
"El éxito en la guerra se alcanza cuidando de adaptarse permanentemente al propósito del enemigo." -Sun Tzu
"4. The general who thoroughly understands the advantages that accompany variation of tactics knows how to handle his troops. 5. The general who does not understand these, may be well acquainted with the configuration of the country, yet he will not be able to turn his knowledge to practical account. 6. So, the student of war who is unversed in the art of war of varying his plans, even though he be acquainted with the Five Advantages, will fail to make the best use of his men. 7. Hence in the wise leader's plans, considerations of advantage and of disadvantage will be blended together. 8. If our expectation of advantage be tempered in this way, we may succeed in accomplishing the essential part of our schemes. 9. If, on the other hand, in the midst of difficulties we are always ready to seize an advantage, we may extricate ourselves from misfortune. 10. Reduce the hostile chiefs by inflicting damage on them; and make trouble for them, and keep them constantly engaged; hold out specious allurements, and make them rush to any given point. 11. The art of war teaches us to rely not on the likelihood of the enemy's not coming, but on our own readiness to receive him; not on the chance of his not attacking, but rather on the fact that we have made our position unassailable." -Sun Tzu
"If we do not wish to fight, we can prevent the enemy from engaging us even though the lines of our encampment be merely traced out on the ground. All we need do is to throw something odd and unaccountable in his way." -Sun Tzu
"In the practical art of war, the best thing of all is to take the enemy's country whole and intact; to shatter and destroy it is not so good." -Sun Tzu
"brought him to" -Sun Tzu
"Anger can revert to joy, wrath can revert to delight, but a nation destroyed cannot be restored to existence, and the dead cannot be restored to life." -Sun Tzu
"En asuntos militares, no es necesariamente más beneficioso ser superior en fuerzas, sólo evitar actuar con violencia innecesaria; es suficiente con consolidar tu poder, hacer estimaciones sobre el enemigo y conseguir reunir tropas; eso es todo." -Sun Tzu
"Thus we may know that there are five essentials for victory: (1) He will win who knows when to fight and when not to fight. (2) He will win who knows how to handle both superior and inferior forces. (3) He will win whose army is animated by the same spirit throughout all its ranks. (4) He will win who, prepared himself, waits to take the enemy unprepared. (5) He will win who has military capacity and is not interfered with by the sovereign." -Sun Tzu
"When to is going for grievance in." -Sun Tzu
"Sun Tzu dijo: En el arte práctico de la guerra, es mejor conservar el país enemigo entero e intacto, que destruirlo y arrasarlo." -Sun Tzu
"In war, practice dissimulation, and you will succeed." -Sun Tzu
"The clever combatant looks to the effect of combined energy, and does not require too much from individuals. Hence his ability to pick out the right men and utilize combined energy." -Sun Tzu
"- حرب لا تستطيع كسبها حاول تجنبها والجأ للمفاوضات قدر الإمكان. - الحرب لا تكسب بالقوة بل بالخداع وعدم الاستعجال. - هاجم عدوك حين تعرض عليه السلم. وتحاشاه حين يتوقع منك الهجوم. - لا تكرر التكتيك الذي فزت به سابقاً، ابتكر غيره او عدله بطريقة غير متوقعة. - حين يكون العدو في متناول اليد ومع ذلك يبقى هادئا فهو يعد لك مكيدة. - الحرب المثالية هي الحرب السريعة؛ فالحرب الطويلة استنزاف للمنتصر كما هي للخاسر. - حين تواجه عدوا قويا لا تتحرك حتى تجد فرصة سانحة ولا تحارب حتى يخرج عن طوره ويهاجم! - كن مستعدا لتصيد أخطاء العدو؛ فقد لا يأتي النصر بدونها. - احتفظ بقواتك وقدراتك سرّاً.. فكلما كنت غامضا خافك العدو وضخّم قدراتك! - ستعرض نفسك لهزيمة محتملة إن لم تحدد (أنت) مكان ووقت المعركة. - لا تحارب في الظروف الجوية المتطرفة التي يألفها العدو ولا تألفها قواتك! - الأرض جزء من الجيش وهي التي ترفع أو تخفض من قوته! - وحين تختار الأرض ابحث عن المكان الأعلى والأكثر صلابة. - وحين لا تجد؛ ابحث عن الأرض المنبسطة واحمِ ظهرك بخنادق! - استولِ قبل عدوك على الممرات الضيقة والنقاط المهمة وحين تصل إليها افترض احتلاله لها. - بادر بقتال العدو حين يعبر النهر.. ولا تجتز أنت وهو على الطرف الآخر. - كلما طالت خطوط تموينك ازداد ضعفك واحتمال التفاف العدو حولك. - لا تفتح على نفسك عدة جبهات في وقت واحد.. تحالف مع أحد الأعداء حتى تنتهي من الآخر! - حين تحاصر العدو اترك له فجوة للهرب.. فالضغط بقسوة يجعله يستأسد في القتال. - الاحتفاظ بجاسوس في الداخل يعادل جيشاً بأكمله!! - وأفضل الجواسيس من يحمل جنسية العدو ولكنه يؤمن بأهدافك!! - وأخيرا.. ضمان النصر النهائي قد يتطلب التضحية بأفضل الجواسيس!!!" -Sun Tzu
"Triunfan aquellos que:Saben cuándo luchar y cuando no." -Sun Tzu
"Therefore, in your deliberations, when seeking to determine the military conditions, let them be made the basis of a comparison, in this wise:-- 13. (1) Which of the two sovereigns is imbued with the Moral law? (2) Which of the two generals has most ability? (3) With whom lie the advantages derived from Heaven and Earth? (4) On which side is discipline most rigorously enforced? (5) Which army is stronger? (6) On which side are officers and men more highly trained? (7) In which army is there the greater constancy both in reward and punishment?" -Sun Tzu
"Nothing is more difficult than the art of maneuver. What is difficult about maneuver is to make the devious route the most direct and to turn misfortune to advantage. Thus, march by an indirect route and divert the enemy by enticing him with a bait. So doing, you may set out after he does and arrive before him. One able to do this understands the strategy of the direct and the indirect." -Sun Tzu
"The Commander stands for the virtues of wisdom, sincerity, benevolence, courage and strictness." -Sun Tzu
"Grab something, what is dear to the enemy, and he's going to do how you would want." -Sun Tzu
"Ketahui musuhmu dan kenali dirimu sendiri, maka engkau tidak perlu takut pada seratus pertempuran." -Sun Tzu
"kemenangan terbesar adalah yang dimenangkan tanpa pertempuran" -Sun Tzu
"Si tus fuerzas son diez veces superiores a las del adversario, rodéalo; si son cinco veces superiores, atácalo; si son dos veces superiores, divídelo.Si tus fuerzas son iguales en número, lucha si te es posible. Si tus fuerzas son inferiores, mantente continuamente en guardia, pues el más pequeño fallo te acarrearía las peores consecuencias" -Sun Tzu
"The art of war teaches us to rely not on the likelihood of the enemy's not coming, but on our own readiness to receive him; not on the chance of his notattacking, but rather on the fact that we have made our position unassailable" -Sun Tzu
"Hay cinco elementos esenciales para la victoria: (1) Ganará, quien sabe cuándo luchar y cuándo no hacerlo. (2) Ganará, quien sabe manejar, tanto las fuerzas superiores como las fuerzas inferiores. (3) Ganará, quien posea el ejército que esté animado por el mismo espíritu en todas sus filas. (4) Ganará, quien preparado, sepa esperar para coger al enemigo desprevenido. (5) Ganará, quien dueño de la capacidad militar, no sea interferido por el soberano." -Sun Tzu
"El enemigo que actúa aisladamente, que carece de estrategia y que toma a la ligera a sus adversarios, inevitablemente acabará siendo derrotado." -Sun Tzu
"Ciente de tuas capacidades e limitações, não inicies nenhuma empreitada que não possas levar a cabo." -Sun Tzu
"The Commander stands for the virtues of wisdom, sincerely, benevolence, courage and strictness." -Sun Tzu
"Si utilizas al enemigo para derrotar al enemigo, serás poderoso en cualquier lugar a donde vayas." -Sun Tzu
"- ستعرض نفسك لهزيمة محتملة إن لم تحدد (أنت) مكان ووقت المعركة." -Sun Tzu
"Secure the defense by defending unattacked." -Sun Tzu
"The crux of military operations lies in the pretense of accommodating one's self to the designs of the enemy." -Sun Tzu
"The art of using troops is this: When ten to the enemy's one, surround him; When five times his strength, attack him (if my force is five times that of the enemy I alarm him to the front, surprise him to the rear, create an uproar in the east and strike in the west); If double his strength, divide him (if a two-to-one superiority is insufficient to manipulate the situation, we use a distracting force to divide his army);If equally matched you may engage him (in these circumstances only the able general can win);If weaker numerically, be capable of withdrawing (if I am in good order and the enemy in disarray, if I am energetic and he careless, then, even if he be numerically stronger, I can give battle); And if in all respects unequal, be capable of eluding him, for a small force is but booty for one more powerful (the small certainly cannot equal the large, nor can the weak match the strong, nor the few the many)." -Sun Tzu
"He who advancesWithout seekingFame,Who retreatsWithout escapingBlame,He whose one aim isTo protect his peopleAnd serve his lord,This man isA Jewel of the Realm." -Sun Tzu
"War is a place of life and death, a path towards survival and destruction." -Sun Tzu
"You cannot shut your ears to the thunder or your eyes to the lighting--so rapid are they.' Likewise, an attack should be made so quickly that it cannot be parried." -Sun Tzu
"A previous information allows wise rulers and valuable generals to move and conquer." -Sun Tzu
"Taktik tanpa strategi adalah kebisingan sebelum kekalahan." -Sun Tzu
"Perang adalah seni menipu" -Sun Tzu
"Quão lamentável é arriscar tudo em um único combate, negligenciando a estratégia vitoriosa, e fazer com que o destino de tuas armas dependa de uma única batalha!" -Sun Tzu
"It is the business of a general to be serene and inscrutable, impartial and self-controlled. If serene he is not vexed; if inscrutable, unfathomable; if upright, not improper; if self-controlled, not confused. He should be capable of keeping his officers and men in ignorance of his plans. His troops may join him in rejoicing at the accomplishment, but they cannot join him in laying the plans. He prohibits superstitious practices and so rids the army of doubts. Then until the moment of death there can be no troubles. He changes his methods and alters his plans so that people have no knowledge of what he is doing. Courses of action previously followed and old plans previously executed must be altered. He alters his campsites and marches by devious routes, and thus makes it impossible for others to anticipate his purpose. To assemble the army and throw it into a desperate position is the business of the general. He leads the army deep into hostile territory and there releases the trigger. He burns his boats and smashes his cooking pots; he urges the army on as if driving a flock of sheep, now in one direction, now in another, and none knows where he is going. He fixes a date for rendezvous and after the troops have met, cuts off their return route just as if he were removing a ladder from beneath them." -Sun Tzu
"When the general is morally weak and his discipline not strict, when his instructions and guidance are not enlightened, when there are no consistent rules to guide the officers and men and when the formations are slovenly the army is in disorder." -Sun Tzu
"Destarte," -Sun Tzu
"If one party is at war with another, and the other party does not realize it is at war, the party who knows it's at war almost always has the advantage and usually wins." -Sun Tzu
"Správným způsobem jak čelit útočící armádě není doufat, že nepřijde, ale naopak připravit se co nejlépe na její příchod." -Sun Tzu
"12.  Therefore, in your deliberations, when seeking to determine the military conditions, let them be made the basis of a comparison, in this wise:-- 13.  (1) Which of the two sovereigns is imbued with the Moral law? [I.e., 'is in harmony with his subjects.' Cf. ss. 5.] (2) Which of the two generals has most ability? (3) With whom lie the advantages derived from Heaven and Earth? [See ss. 7,8] (4) On which side is discipline most rigorously enforced? [Tu Mu alludes to the remarkable story of Ts'ao Ts" -Sun Tzu
"Im Frieden bereite dich auf den Krieg vor, im Krieg bereite dich auf den Frieden vor." -Sun Tzu
"ويعتقد (سن تزو ) بأن شن حرب بطريقة اقتصادية، مع الدفاع عن البلاد ضد الآخرين، يتطلب ضرورة استخدام نظام تجسس دائم،" -Sun Tzu
"* Know your enemy and know yourself and you can fight a hundred battles without disaster.* Know not your enemy yet know yourself, and you shall win half your battles.* Know neither the enemy nor yourself, and you shall surely lose every fight." -Sun Tzu
"surroundings" -Sun Tzu
"The enemy can be numerous, but we can stop the fight." -Sun Tzu
"One ignorant of the plans of neighboring states cannot prepare alliances in good time; if ignorant of the conditions of mountains, forests, dangerous defiles, swamps and marshes he cannot conduct the march of an army; if he fails to make use of native guides he cannot gain the advantages of the ground. A general ignorant of even one of these three matters is unfit to command the armies of a Hegemonic King." -Sun Tzu
"La defensa es para tiempos de escasez, el ataque para tiempos de abundancia." -Sun Tzu
"When you engage in actual fighting, if victory is long in coming, then men's weapons will grow dull and their ardor will be damped. (...)when your weapons are dulled, your ardor damped, your strength exhausted and your treasure spent, other chieftains will spring up to take advantage of your extremity. Then no man, however wise, will be able to avert the consequences that must ensue." -Sun Tzu
"by Capt. E. F. Calthrop, R.F.A. However, this translation is, in the words of Dr. Giles, 'excessively bad.' He goes further in this criticism: 'It is" -Sun Tzu
"Those who come seeking peace without mentioning an agreement are plotting against you." -Sun Tzu
"Nered se rađa iz reda, kukavičluk se rađa iz hrabrosti, slabost se rađa iz snage." -Sun Tzu
"Therefore the clever combatant imposes his will on the enemy, but does not allow the enemy's will to be imposed on him." -Sun Tzu
"Those skilled in war avoid the enemy when his spirit is keen and attack him when it is sluggish and his soldiers homesick. This is control of the moral factor. In good order they await a disorderly enemy; in serenity, a clamorous one. This is control of the mental factor. Close to the field of battle, they await an enemy coming from afar; at rest, an exhausted enemy; with well-fed troops, hungry ones. This is control of the physical factor.They do not engage an enemy advancing with well-ordered banners nor one whose formations are in impressive array. This is control of the factor of changing circumstances." -Sun Tzu
"Let your plans be dark and impenetrable as night, and when you move, fall like a thunderbolt" -Sun Tzu
"In battle, there are not more than two methods of attack -- the direct and the indirect; yet these two in combination give rise to an endless series of maneuvers." -Sun Tzu
"Words of peace, without negotiations, are signs of treachery." -Sun Tzu
"إذا كنت - على أية حال - طيباً متساهلاً، لكن غير قادر على جعل جنودك يعرفون حدود سلطاتك عليهم، وإذا كنت طيب القلب - غير قادر على فرض أوامرك بالقوة، وغير قادر - فوق كل ذلك - على قمع مظاهر الفوضى والشغب، فوقتها يصبح جنودك مثل الأطفال المدللين - لا نفع يُرتجَى منهم أو فائدة. (إذا خافك الجنود وخشوك - لم يخشوا العدو)." -Sun Tzu
"18. Hence the saying: If you know the enemy and know yourself, you need not fear the result of a hundred battles. If you know yourself but not the enemy, for every victory gained you will also suffer a defeat. If you know neither the enemy nor yourself, you will succumb in every battle." -Sun Tzu
"Do not press an enemy at bay. Wild beasts, when at bay, fight desperately. How much more is this true of men! If they know there is no alternative they will fight to the death." -Sun Tzu
"Instead, view the time of trouble as an opportunity to uncover the deepest roots of your problem--which perhaps arise from unexamined core beliefs or ingrained habits that consistently hinder you." -Sun Tzu
"Z tego powodu armia triumfująca najpierw określa warunki zwycięstwa, a dopiero potem podejmuje działania prowadzące do bitwy. Armia pokonana najpierw staje do walki, a potem szuka zwycięstwa." -Sun Tzu
"Connais toi toi-même, connais ton ennemi, ta victoire ne sera jamais mise en danger. Connais le terrain, connais ton temps, ta victoire sera alors totale." -Sun Tzu
"Un ejército prefiere un terreno elevado y evita un terreno bajo, aprecia la luz y detesta la oscuridad." -Sun Tzu
"Practica las artes marciales, calcula la fuerza de tus adversarios, haz que pierdan su ánimo y dirección, de manera que aunque el ejército enemigo esté intacto sea inservible: esto es ganar sin violencia." -Sun Tzu
"If your opponent is of choleric temper, seek to irritate him. Pretend to be weak, that he may grow arrogant." -Sun Tzu
"When troops flee, are insubordinate, distressed, collapse in disorder or are routed, it is the fault of the general. None of these disasters can be attributed to natural causes." -Sun Tzu
"المخابرات الجيدة هي الأمر الجوهري الثاني في الحرب، ويقف هذا وراء قول 'تزو' إن شبكة تجسس موسعة ليست موضع خيار، بل هي ضرورة أساسية." -Sun Tzu
"No te sitúes río abajo. No camines en contra de las corriente, ni en contra del viento." -Sun Tzu
"Nunca se debe atacar por cólera y con prisas. Es aconsejable tomarse tiempo en la planificación y coordinación del plan." -Sun Tzu
"Lo que de mí depende, puedo hacerlo; lo que depende del enemigo es incierto'.| Disposiciones" -Sun Tzu
"La psicología de los soldados consiste en resistir cuando se ven rodeados, luchar cuando no se puede evitar y obedecer en casos extremos." -Sun Tzu
"Ask yourself which political leadership--your own or that of your enemy--is able to reject flatterers and draw close to the wise." -Sun Tzu
"many people beat their meat but only true warriors defeat it" -Sun Tzu
"Si un general no es valiente, será incapaz de conquistar las dudas y de desarrollar grandes planes'| Estimativos" -Sun Tzu
"Everyone is an atheist until they clog a toilet in someone else's house" -Sun Tzu
"- الحرب المثالية هي الحرب السريعة؛ فالحرب الطويلة استنزاف للمنتصر كما هي للخاسر." -Sun Tzu
"Taking a state whole is superior. Destroying it is inferior to this." -Sun Tzu
"Je vous rappelle ce trait d'Histoire pour vous faire entendre que non seulement les différents corps de votre armée doivent se secourir mutuellement, mais encore qu'ilfaut que vous secouriez vos alliés, que vous donniez même du secours aux peuples vaincus qui en ont besoin ; car, s'ils vous sont soumis, c'est qu'ils n'ont pu faire autrement ; si leur souverain vous a déclaré la guerre, ce n'est pas de leur faute. Rendez-leur des services, ils auront leur tour pour vous en rendre aussi.p87" -Sun Tzu
"The skillful leader subdues the enemy's troops without any fighting; he captures their cities without laying siege to them; he overthrows their kingdom without lengthy operations in the field." -Sun Tzu
"«Quando soffia, il vento non lascia traccia, e muta direzione inaspettatamente. La maestosità della foresta è data dall'ordine. Il fuoco è avido perché dietro di sé non lascia un filo d'erba. Quando prendi posizione, sii fermo come la montagna»." -Sun Tzu
"وكتب سون أتزو رائعته 'فن الحرب' في العقد الأول من القرن الخامس قبل الميلاد، وقد قدم نسخة من كتابه إلى الملك حلو سنة ٥١٢ ق." -Sun Tzu
"If you know your enemy and know yourself, you need not fear the result of a hundred battles..." -Sun Tzu
"A skillful warrior doesn't depend on enemy's absence, but on his own readiness." -Sun Tzu
"Prohibit the taking of omens, and do away with superstitious doubts. Then, until death itself comes, no calamity need be feared." -Sun Tzu
"The force which confronts the enemy is the normal; that which goes to his flanks the extraordinary. no commander of an army can wrest the advantage from the enemy without extraordinary forces." -Sun Tzu
"17. All warfare is based on deception. 18. Hence, when able to attack, we must seem unable; when using our forces, we must seem inactive; when we are near, we must make the enemy believe we are far away; when far away, we must make him believe we are near." -Sun Tzu
"6. There is no instance of a country having benefited from prolonged warfare." -Sun Tzu
"la mejor victoria es vencer sin combatir'," -Sun Tzu
"Ganar combatiendo o llevar a cabo un asedio victorioso sin recompensar a los que han hecho méritos trae mala fortuna y se hace merecedor de ser llamado avaro. Por eso se dice que un gobierno esclarecido lo tiene en cuenta y que un buen mando militar recompensa el mérito. No moviliza a sus tropas cuando no hay ventajas que obtener, ni actúa cuando no hay nada que ganar, ni lucha cuando no existe peligro." -Sun Tzu
"Postaví-li se do čela vojska muž, který svou moudrostí na takový úkol nestačí, je domýšlivý. Postaví-li se do čela vojska muž, který svou odvahou na takový úkol nestačí, je chvástavý. Postaví-li se do čela vojska muž, který nezná Tao a neprožil dostatek bitev, je vydán štěstěně." -Sun Tzu
"Perang bukanlah tentang siapa yang paling kuat, tetapi tentang siapa yang siap." -Sun Tzu
"The natural formation of the country is the soldier's best ally, but a power of estimating the adversary, of controlling the forces of victory, and of shrewdly calculating difficulties, dangers, and distances, constitutes the test of a great general. He, who knows these things, and in fighting, puts his knowledge into practice, will win his battles. He, who knows them not, nor practices them, will surely be defeated." -Sun Tzu
"Sitúa a tus tropas en un punto que no tenga salida, de manera que tengan que morir antes de poder escapar. Porque, ante la posibilidad de la muerte, ¿qué no estarán dispuestas a hacer? Los guerreros dan entonces lo mejor de sus fuerzas. Cuando se hallan ante un grave peligro, pierden el miedo.Cuando no hay ningún sitio a donde ir, permanecen firmes; cuando están totalmente implicados en un terreno, se aferran a él. Si no tienen otra opción, lucharán hasta el final." -Sun Tzu
"Întreaga artă a războiului este bazată pe înșelătorie." -Sun Tzu
"Notalar beşi geçmez, ama beş notanın bileşimleri duyulmadık melodiler yaratır. Renkler beşi geçmez, ama beş rengin bileşimleri görülmedik renkler yaratır. Tatlar beşi geçmez, ama beş tadın bileşimleri tadılmadık tatlar yaratır." -Sun Tzu
"To triumph in battle and be universally acclaimed 'Expert' is not the acme of skill, for to lift an autumn down requires no great strength; to distinguish between the sun and moon is no test of vision; to hear the thunderclap is no indication of acute hearing." -Sun Tzu
"War is a matter of vital importance to the State; the province of life or death; the road to survival or ruin. It is mandatory that it be thoroughly studied." -Sun Tzu
"A skillful defenders hides within ninefold earth; a skillful attacker moves above ninefold sky" -Sun Tzu
"Tzu except the 82 P`IEN, whereas the Sui and T`ang bibliographies give the titles of others in addition to the '13 chapters,' is good proof, Pi I-hsun thinks, that all of these were contained in the 82 P`IEN. Without" -Sun Tzu
"attacks a powerful state, his generalship shows itself in" -Sun Tzu
"A menos que tu corazón esté totalmente abierto y tu mente en orden, no puedes esperar ser capaz de adaptarte a responder sin límites, a manejar los acontecimientos de manera infalible, a enfrentarte a las dificultades graves e inesperadas sin turbarte, dirigiendo cada cosa sin confusión." -Sun Tzu
"What then shall be said of those scholars of our time, blind to all great issues, and without any appreciation of relative values, who can only bark out their stale formulas about 'virtue' and 'civilization,' condemning the use of military weapons? They will surely bring our country to impotence and dishonor and the loss of her rightful heritage; or, at the very least, they will bring about invasion and rebellion, sacrifice of territory and general enfeeblement." -Sun Tzu
"It is not the pinnacle of martial achievement to fight and win a hundred battles. It is the pinnacle of martial achievement to win without fighting" -Sun Tzu
"Now the general who wins a battle makes manycalculations in his temple ere the battle is fought." -Sun Tzu
"Without a full understanding of the harm caused by war, it is impossible to understand the most profitable way of conducting it." -Sun Tzu
"Whatever comes, let it come. What stays, let it stay. What goes, let it go." -Sun Tzu
"He who pursues, not seeking honor, who withdraws, not escaping from guilt, who wants only to protect his people and serving the master, that man is a jewel of the kingdom." -Sun Tzu
"preserved in the T`UNG TIEN, and another in Ho Shin's commentary. It is suggested that before his interview with Ho Lu, Sun Tzu had only written the 13 chapters, but afterwards composed a sort of exegesis in the form of question and answer between himself and the King. Pi I-hsun, the author of the SUN TZU HSU LU, backs this up with a quotation from the WU YUEH CH`UN CH`IU: 'The King" -Sun Tzu
"Invulnerability depends on us, vulnerability on our adversary." -Sun Tzu
"los que no son totalmente conscientes de las desventajas de servirse de las armas no pueden ser totalmente conscientes de las ventajas de utilizarlas." -Sun Tzu
"To see the sun and moon is no sign of sharp sight; to hear the noise of thunder is no sign of a quick ear." -Sun Tzu
"El día en que se declara la guerra, se cierran las fronteras, se rompen los salvoconductos y se impide el paso de emisarios." -Sun Tzu
"Fighting with a large army under your command is nowise different from fighting with a small one: it is merely a question of instituting signs and signals." -Sun Tzu
"¡Divino arte de la sutileza y el secreto! Si se aprende a ser invisible, e inaudible, se puede tener la suerte del enemigo en las manos." -Sun Tzu
"The control of a large force is the same principle as the control of a few men: it is merely a question of dividing up their numbers." -Sun Tzu
"You can know victory and still you won't achieve it." -Sun Tzu
"When half his force advances and half withdraws he is attempting to decoy you. When his troops lean on their weapons, they are famished. When drawers of water drink before carrying it to camp, his troops are suffering from thirst. When the enemy sees an advantage but does not advance to seize it, he is fatigued. When birds gather above his camp sites, they are empty. When at night the enemy's camp is clamorous, he is fearful. They are boisterous to reassure themselves. When his troops are disorderly, the general has no prestige. When his flags and banners move about constantly he is in disarray. If the officers are short-tempered they are exhausted. When the enemy feeds grain to the horses and his men meat and when his troops neither hang up their cooking pots nor return to their shelters, the enemy is desperate. When the troops continually gather in small groups and whisper together the general has lost the confidence of the army. Too frequent rewards indicate that the general is at the end of his resources; too frequent punishments that he is in acute distress. If the officers at first treat the men violently and later are fearful of them, the limit of indiscipline has been reached. When the enemy troops are in high spirits, and, although facing you, do not join battle for a long time, nor leave, you must thoroughly investigate the situation." -Sun Tzu
"Without a full understanding of the harm caused by war, it is impossible to understand the most profitable way of conducting it" -Sun Tzu
"La invencibilidad está en uno mismo, la vulnerabilidad en el adversario." -Sun Tzu
"sé rápido como el trueno que retumba antes de que hayas podido taparte los oídos, veloz como el relámpago que relumbra antes de haber podido pestañear." -Sun Tzu
"The tao is the way of humanity and justice; 'laws' are regulations and institutions. Those who excel in war first cultivate their own humanity and justice and maintain their laws and institution. By these means they make their governments invincible." -Sun Tzu
"threw light upon the principles of war. It is obvious enough that Ssu-ma Ch`ien at least had no doubt about the reality of Sun Wu as" -Sun Tzu
"A wise warrior never gets lost when he goes; he's never in confusion, when acting." -Sun Tzu
"Proto se tedy armáda staví lstí , vede se kupředu za získáním výhod a neustále mění svůj tvar, člení se a znovu se spojuje. Jen tak dokáže být rychlá jako vítr, nehybná a stálá jako les. Dokáže útočit a ničit jako oheň; stojí-li, je jako hory. Poznat ji je stejně těžké jako poznat tmu, ale pohybuje se jako hrom." -Sun Tzu
"We may know that there are Five Essentials for Victory:He will win, who knows when to fight, and when not to fight.He will win, who knows how to handle both superior, and inferior forces.He will win, whose army is animated by the same spirit throughout all its ranks.He will win, who, prepared himself, waits to take the enemy unprepared.He will win, who has military capacity, and is not interfered with by the sovereign.Hence the saying: ‘If you know the enemy, and know yourself, you need not fear the result of a hundred battles. If you know yourself, but not the enemy, for every victory gained, you will also suffer a defeat. If you know neither the enemy nor yourself, you will succumb in every battle." -Sun Tzu
"​¿Qué dirigente es más sabio y capaz? ​¿Qué comandante posee el mayor talento? ​¿Qué ejército obtiene ventajas de la naturaleza y el terreno? ​¿En qué ejército se observan mejor las regulaciones y las instrucciones? ​¿Qué tropas son más fuertes? ​¿Qué ejército tiene oficiales y tropas mejor entrenadas? ​¿Qué ejército administra recompensas y castigos de forma más justa? ​Mediante el estudio de estos siete factores seré capaz de adivinar cuál de los dos bandos saldrá victorioso y cuál será derrotado." -Sun Tzu
"The general who is skilled in defense hides in the most secret recesses of the earth; he who is skilled in attack flashes forth from the topmost heights of heaven. Thus on the one hand we have ability to protect ourselves; on the other, a victory that is complete." -Sun Tzu
"Those skilled in war subdue the enemy's army without battle. They capture his cities without assaulting them and overthrow his state without protracted operations.Your aim must be to take All-under-Heaven intact. Thus your troops are not worn out and your gains will be complete. This is the art of offensive strategy." -Sun Tzu
"A victorious army wins its victories before seeking battle; an army destined to defeat fights in the hope of winning." -Sun Tzu
"The onrush of a conquering force is like the bursting of pent-up waters into a chasm a thousand fathoms deep." -Sun Tzu
"To fight is to win, for he attacks only when the enemy has sown the seeds of defeat." -Sun Tzu
"[The heading meansliterally 'The Nine Variations,' but as SunTzu does not appear to enumerate these, and as, indeed, he hasalready told us (V SS. 6-11) that such deflections from theordinary course are practically innumerable, we have little optionbut to follow Wang Hsi, who says that 'Nine' stands for anindefinitely large number." -Sun Tzu
"Without local guides, your enemy employs the land as a weapon against you." -Sun Tzu
"Military action is important to the nation -- it is the ground of death and life, the path of survival and destruction, so it is imperative to examine it." -Sun Tzu
"the latter, hence Hou employed him. Their great achievements were all for the good of the people." -Sun Tzu
"All warfare is based on deception. 18. Hence, when able to attack, we must seem unable; when using our forces, we must seem inactive; when we are near, we must make the enemy believe we are far away; when far away, we must make him believe we are near." -Sun Tzu
"The enemy must not know where I intend to give battle. For if he does not know where I intend to give battle he must prepare in a great many places,. And when he prepares in a great many places, those I have to fight in any one place will be few.For if he prepares to the front his rear will be weak, and if to the rear, his front will be fragile. If he prepares to the left, his right will be vulnerable and if to the right, there will be few on his left. And when he prepares everywhere he will be weak everywhere. One who has few must prepare against the enemy; one who has many makes the enemy prepare against him.If one knows where and when a battle will be fought his troops can march a thousand li and meet on the field. But if one knows neither the battleground nor the day of battle, the left will be unable to aid the right, or the right, the left; the van to support the rear, or the rear, the van. How much more is this so when separate by several tens of li, or, indeed, by even a few!" -Sun Tzu
"That the impact of your army may be like a grindstone dashed against an egg -- this is effected by the science of weak points and strong." -Sun Tzu
"Los soldados prisioneros deben ser bien tratados, para conseguir que en el futuro luchen para ti." -Sun Tzu
"Cuando te halles en un terreno cerrado, prepara alguna estrategia y muévete. Cuando te halles en un terreno mortal, lucha." -Sun Tzu
"Conosci il nemico, conosci te stesso, mai sarà in dubbio il risultato di cento battaglie." -Sun Tzu
"The most means victory, the least means defeat; none of it, a certain defeat." -Sun Tzu
"An enlightened ruler thinks carefully; effective general goes to the end." -Sun Tzu
"An outstanding perfection is not in winning every battle, but in defeating an enemy before entering a battle." -Sun Tzu
"He wins his battles by making no mistakes. Making no mistakes is what establishes the certainty of victory, for it means conquering an enemy that is already defeated. 14. Hence the skillful fighter puts himself into a position which makes defeat impossible, and does not miss the moment for defeating the enemy." -Sun Tzu
"conceal your dispositions, and you will be safe from the prying of the subtlest spies, from the machinations of the wisest brains." -Sun Tzu
"Todos los hombres pueden ver las tácticas, pero lo que nadie puede ver es la estrategia que hace que de estas observaciones evolucione la victoria." -Sun Tzu
"Good warriors take their stand on ground where they cannot lose, and do not overlook conditions that make an opponent prone to defeat." -Sun Tzu
"Cambia sus colores (de los soldados enemigos hechos prisioneros), utilízalos mezclados con los tuyos. Trata bien a los soldados y préstales atención. Los soldados prisioneros deben ser bien tratados, para conseguir que en el futuro luchen para ti. A esto se llama vencer al adversario e incrementar por añadidura tus propias fuerzas." -Sun Tzu
"Como se dice comúnmente, sé rápido como el trueno que retumba antes de que hayas podido taparte los oídos, veloz como el relámpago que relumbra antes de haber podido pestañear." -Sun Tzu