"For all of the most important things, the timing always sucks. Waiting for a good time to quit your job? The stars will never align and the traffic lights of life will never all be green at the same time. The universe doesn't conspire against you, but it doesn't go out of its way to line up the pins either. Conditions are never perfect. 'Someday' is a disease that will take your dreams to the grave with you. Pro and con lists are just as bad. If it's important to you and you want to do it 'eventually,' just do it and correct course along the way." -Tim Ferriss
"What we fear doing most is usually what we most need to do." -Tim Ferriss
"People will choose unhappiness over uncertainty." -Tim Ferriss
"But you are the average of the five people you associate with most, so do not underestimate the effects of your pessimistic, unambitious, or disorganized friends. If someone isn't making you stronger, they're making you weaker." -Tim Ferriss
"A person's success in life can usually be measured by the number of uncomfortable conversations he or she is willing to have." -Tim Ferriss
"If you are insecure, guess what? The rest of the world is, too. Do not overestimate the competition and underestimate yourself. You are better than you think." -Tim Ferriss
"The question you should be asking isn't, 'What do I want?' or 'What are my goals?' but 'What would excite me?" -Tim Ferriss
"Focus on being productive instead of busy." -Tim Ferriss
"The opposite of love is indifference, and the opposite of happiness is boredom." -Tim Ferriss
"Slow Dance:Have you ever watched kids, On a merry-go-round? Or listened to the rain, Slapping on the ground? Ever followed a butterfly's erratic flight? Or gazed at the sun into the fading night? You better slow down. Don't dance too fast. Time is short. The music won't last. Do you run through each day, On the fly? When you ask: How are you? Do you hear the reply? When the day is done, do you lie in your bed, With the next hundred chores, Running through your head? You'd better slow down, Don't dance too fast. Time is short, The music won't last. Ever told your child we'll do it tomorrow? And in your haste, Not see his sorrow? Ever lost touch, Let a good friendship die, Cause you never had time, To call and say Hi? You'd better slow down. Don't dance so fast. Time is short. The music won't last. When you run so fast to get somewhere, You miss half the fun of getting there. When you worry and hurry through your day, It is like an unopened gift thrown away. Life is not a race. Do take it slower. Hear the music, Before the song is over." -Tim Ferriss
"To enjoy life, you don't need fancy nonsense, but you do need to control your time and realize that most things just aren't as serious as you make them out to be." -Tim Ferriss
"Being able to quit things that don't work is integral to being a winner" -Tim Ferriss
"The world is changed by your example, not by your opinion." -Tim Ferriss
"Most people are fast to stop you before you get started but hesitate to get in the way if you're moving." -Tim Ferriss
"Learn to be difficult when it counts. In school as in life, having a reputation for being assertive will help you receive preferential treatment without having to beg or fight for it every time." -Tim Ferriss
"It's lonely at the top. Ninety-nine percent of people in the world are convinced they are incapable of achieving great things, so they aim for the mediocre. The level of competition is thus fiercest for 'realistic' goals, paradoxically making them the most time and energy-consuming." -Tim Ferriss
"Many a false step was made by standing still." -Tim Ferriss
"Excitement is the more practical synonym for happiness, and it is precisely what you should strive to chase. It is the cure-all." -Tim Ferriss
"Poisonous people do not deserve your time. To think otherwise is masochistic." -Tim Ferriss
"Someday' is a disease that will take your dreams to the grave with you." -Tim Ferriss
"Remember—boredom is the enemy, not some abstract 'failure." -Tim Ferriss
"Life is too short to be small." -Tim Ferriss
"Information is useless if it is not applied to something important or if you will forget it before you have a chance to apply it." -Tim Ferriss
"The bottom line is that you only have the rights you fight for." -Tim Ferriss
"$1,000,000 in the bank isn't the fantasy. The fantasy is the lifestyle of complete freedom it supposedly allows." -Tim Ferriss
"Productivity is for robots. What humans are going to be really good at is asking questions, being creative, and experiences.'   Kevin Kelly" -Tim Ferriss
"I'll repeat something you might consider tattooing on your forehead: What we fear doing most is usually what we most need to do." -Tim Ferriss
"Doing less is not being lazy. Don't give in to a culture that values personal sacrifice over personal productivity." -Tim Ferriss
"By working only when you are most effective, life is both more productive and more enjoyable. It's the perfect example of having your cake and eating it, too." -Tim Ferriss
"The fishing is best where the fewest go and the collective insecurity of the world makes it easy for people to hit home runs while everyone is aiming for base hits." -Tim Ferriss
"Losers have goals. Winners have systems." -Tim Ferriss
"The most important trick to be happy is to realize that happiness is a choice that you make and a skill that you develop. You choose to be happy, and then you work at it. It’s just like building muscles." -Tim Ferriss
"WHEN 99% OF PEOPLE DOUBT YOU, YOU’RE EITHER GRAVELY WRONG OR ABOUT TO MAKE HISTORY." -Tim Ferriss
"Role models who push us to exceed our limits, physical training that removes our spare tires, and risks that expand our sphere of comfortable action are all examples of eustress—stress that is healthful and the stimulus for growth." -Tim Ferriss
"If you ran into an asshole in the morning you ran into an asshole. If you run into assholes all day, you're the asshole." -Tim Ferriss
"Never let a good crisis go to waste. It’s the universe challenging you to learn something new and rise to the next level of your potential." -Tim Ferriss
"Never automate something that can be eliminated, and never delegate something that can be automated or streamlined. Otherwise, you waste someone else's time instead of your own, which now wastes your hard-earned cash. How's that for incentive to be effective and efficient?" -Tim Ferriss
"Judge a man by his questions rather than his answers.' —Pierre-Marc-Gaston" -Tim Ferriss
"The goal is not to simply eliminate the bad, which does nothing more than leave you with a vacuum, but to pursue and experience the best in the world." -Tim Ferriss
"Creativity is an infinite resource. The more you spend,the more you have." -Tim Ferriss
"If you let your learning lead to knowledge, you become a fool. If you let your learning lead to action, you become wealthy." -Tim Ferriss
"If you spend your time, worth $20-25 per hour, doing something that someone else will do for $10 per hour, it's simply a poor use of resources." -Tim Ferriss
"Alternating periods of activity and rest is necessary to survive, let alone thrive. Capacity, interest, and mental endurance all wax and wane. Plan accordingly." -Tim Ferriss
"Different is better when it is more effective or more fun." -Tim Ferriss
"It is predicated on the assumption that you dislike what you are doing during the most physically capable years of your life. This is a nonstarter—nothing can justify that sacrifice." -Tim Ferriss
"Desire is a contract you make with yourself to be unhappy until you get what you want." -Tim Ferriss
"Life punishes the vague wish and rewards the specific ask. After all, conscious thinking is largely asking and answering questions in your own head. If you want confusion and heartache, ask vague questions. If you want uncommon clarity and results, ask uncommonly clear questions." -Tim Ferriss
"Pareto's Law can be summarized as follows: 80% of the outputsresult from 20% of the inputs." -Tim Ferriss
"What advice would you give to a smart, driven college student about to enter the 'real world'? What advice should they ignore? I’m probably hopelessly out of date but my advice is get real-world experience: Be a cowboy. Drive a truck. Join the Marine Corps. Get out of the hypercompetitive 'life hack' frame of mind. I’m 74. Believe me, you’ve got all the time in the world. You’ve got ten lifetimes ahead of you. Don’t worry about your friends 'beating' you or 'getting somewhere' ahead of you. Get out into the real dirt world and start failing. Why do I say that? Because the goal is to connect with your own self, your own soul. Adversity. Everybody spends their life trying to avoid it. Me too. But the best things that ever happened to me came during the times when the shit hit the fan and I had nothing and nobody to help me. Who are you really? What do you really want? Get out there and fail and find out." -Tim Ferriss
"Being busy is a form of laziness - lazy thinking and indiscriminate action." -Tim Ferriss
"Doing something unimportant well does not make it important." -Tim Ferriss
"The reasonable man adapts himself to the world; the unreasonable one persists in trying to adapt the world to himself. Therefore all progress depends on the unreasonable man. —GEORGE BERNARD SHAW, Maxims for Revolutionists" -Tim Ferriss
"Happiness is wanting what you have." -Tim Ferriss
"Investing in yourself is the most important investment you’ll ever make in your life. . . . There’s no financial investment that’ll ever match it, because if you develop more skill, more ability, more insight, more capacity, that’s what’s going to really provide economic freedom. . . . It’s those skill sets that really make that happen.' This" -Tim Ferriss
"If you are nervous about making the jump or simply putting it off out of fear of the unknown, here is your antidote. Write down your answers to these questions, and keep in mind that thinking a lot will not prove as fruitful or as prolific as simply brain vomiting on the page. Write and do not edit - aim for volume. Spend a few minutes on each answer.1. Define your nightmare, the absolute worst that could happen if you did what you are considering.2. What steps could you take to repair the damage or get things back on the upswing, even if temporarily?3. What are the outcomes or benefits, both temporary and permanent, of more probably scenarios?4. If you were fired from your job today, what would you do to get things under financial control?5. What are you putting off out of fear?6. What is it costing you - financially, emotionally, and physically - to postpone action?7. What are you waiting for?" -Tim Ferriss
"Often, all that stands between you and what you want is a better set of questions." -Tim Ferriss
"Learn to be difficult when it counts" -Tim Ferriss
"Pacifists become militants.Freedom fighters become tyrants.Blessings become curses.Help becomes hindrance.More becomes less." -Tim Ferriss
"It’s amazing how someone’s IQ seems to double as soon as you give them responsibility and indicate that you trust them." -Tim Ferriss
"The superheroes you have in your mind (idols, icons, titans, billionaires, etc.) are nearly all walking flaws who’ve maximized 1 or 2 strengths." -Tim Ferriss
"here’s my 8-step process for maximizing efficacy (doing the right things): Wake up at least 1 hour before you have to be at a computer screen. Email is the mind-killer. Make a cup of tea (I like pu-erh) and sit down with a pen/pencil and paper. Write down the 3 to 5 things—and no more—that are making you the most anxious or uncomfortable. They’re often things that have been punted from one day’s to-do list to the next, to the next, to the next, and so on. Most important usually equals most uncomfortable, with some chance of rejection or conflict. For each item, ask yourself: 'If this were the only thing I accomplished today, would I be satisfied with my day?' 'Will moving this forward make all the other to-dos unimportant or easier to knock off later?' Put another way: 'What, if done, will make all of the rest easier or irrelevant?' Look only at the items you’ve answered 'yes' to for at least one of these questions. Block out at 2 to 3 hours to focus on ONE of them for today. Let the rest of the urgent but less important stuff slide. It will still be there tomorrow. TO BE CLEAR: Block out at 2 to 3 HOURS to focus on ONE of them for today. This is ONE BLOCK OF TIME. Cobbling together 10 minutes here and there to add up to 120 minutes does not work. No phone calls or social media allowed. If you get distracted or start procrastinating, don’t freak out and downward-spiral; just gently come back to your ONE to-do." -Tim Ferriss
"Reading, after a certain age, diverts the mind too much from its creative pursuits. Any man who reads too much and uses his own brain too little falls into lazy habits of thinking. —ALBERT EINSTEIN" -Tim Ferriss
"I will take as a given that, for most people, somewhere between six and seven billion of them, the perfect job is the one that takes the least time." -Tim Ferriss
"When You Complain, Nobody Wants to Help You" -Tim Ferriss
"Simon received the Nobel Prize in 1978 for his contribution to organizational decision making: It is impossible to have perfect and complete information at any given time to make a decision." -Tim Ferriss
"I always advise young people to become good public speakers (top 25%). Anyone can do it with practice. If you add that talent to any other, suddenly you’re the boss of the people who have only one skill." -Tim Ferriss
"Ours is a culture where we wear our ability to get by on very little sleep as a kind of badge of honor that symbolizes work ethic, or toughness, or some other virtue—but really, it’s a total profound failure of priorities and of self-respect." -Tim Ferriss
"For all their bitching about what’s holding them back, most people have a lot of trouble coming up with the defined dreams they’re being held from." -Tim Ferriss
"People are fond of using the its not what you know, its who you know adage as an excuse for inaction, as if all successful people are born with powerful friends. Nonsense." -Tim Ferriss
"Give vulnerability a shot. Give discomfort its due. Because I think he or she who is willing to be the most uncomfortable is not only the bravest, but rises the fastest." -Tim Ferriss
"One of my favorite quotes is by Ralph Waldo Emerson: 'To laugh often and much; to win the respect of intelligent people and the affection of children . . . to leave the world a bit better . . . to know even one life has breathed easier because you have lived; this is to have succeeded." -Tim Ferriss
"Life punishes the vague wish and rewards the specific ask." -Tim Ferriss
"The golden years become lower-middle-class life revisited. That's a bittersweet ending." -Tim Ferriss
"If you let pride stop you, you will hate life" -Tim Ferriss
"Ever tried. Ever failed. No matter. Try again. Fail again. Fail better.’ You won’t believe what you can accomplish by attempting the impossible with the courage to repeatedly fail better." -Tim Ferriss
"Don’t confuse the complex with the difficult. Most situations are simple – many are just emotionally difficult to act upon." -Tim Ferriss
"To 'fix' someone’s problem, you very often just need to empathically listen to them. Even" -Tim Ferriss
"We do not rise to the level of our expectations. We fall to the level of our training.' —Archilochus" -Tim Ferriss
"When you try to do something big its hard to fail completely." -Tim Ferriss
"If this is the only thing I accomplish today, will I be satisfied with my day?" -Tim Ferriss
"Routine, in an intelligent man, is a sign of ambition.' —W.H. Auden" -Tim Ferriss
"If you want an average, successful life, it doesn’t take much planning. Just stay out of trouble, go to school, and apply for jobs you might like. But if you want something extraordinary, you have two paths: 1) Become the best at one specific thing. 2) Become very good (top 25%) at two or more things. The" -Tim Ferriss
"Make your peace with the fact that saying ‘no’ often requires trading popularity for respect.' —Greg McKeown, Essentialism" -Tim Ferriss
"Being overwhelmed is often as unproductive as doing nothing, and is far more unpleasant. Being selective - doing less - is the path of the productive. Focus on the important few and ignore the rest." -Tim Ferriss
"Adversity doesn’t build character; it reveals it." -Tim Ferriss
"People don’t want to be millionaires — they want to experience what they believe only millions can buy." -Tim Ferriss
"It’s a short reminder that success can usually be measured by the number of uncomfortable conversations we are willing to have, and by the number of uncomfortable actions we are willing to take. The most fulfilled and effective people I know—world-famous creatives, billionaires, thought leaders, and more—look at their life’s journey as perhaps 25 percent finding themselves and 75 percent creating themselves." -Tim Ferriss
"The end product of the shorterdeadline is almost inevitably of equal or higher quality due to greaterfocus." -Tim Ferriss
"It is possible to become world-class, enter the top 5% of performers in the world, in almost any subject within 6-12 months, or even 6-12 weeks." -Tim Ferriss
"Don’t do things that you know are morally wrong. Not because someone is watching, but because you are. Self-esteem is just the reputation that you have with yourself. You’ll always know." -Tim Ferriss
"My goal is to learn things once and use them forever." -Tim Ferriss
"every day, it’s something to reflect on and think about ‘How do I become less competitive in order that I can become more successful?" -Tim Ferriss
"Using people to leverage a refined process multiplies production; using people as a solution to a poor process multiplies problems." -Tim Ferriss
"You’re not responsible for the hand of cards you were dealt. You’re responsible for maxing out what you were given." -Tim Ferriss
"By using money as the scapegoat and work as our all-consuming routine, we are able to conveniently disallow ourselves to do otherwise: 'John, I'd love to talk about the gaping void I feel in my life, the hopelessness that hits me like a punch in the eye every time I start my computer in the morning, but I have so much work to do! I've got at least three hours of unimportant email to reply to before calling prospects who said 'no' yesterday. Gotta run!" -Tim Ferriss
"Money doesn't change you; it reveals who you are when you no longer have to be nice" -Tim Ferriss
"The decent method you follow is better than the perfect method you quit." -Tim Ferriss
"Everyone is fighting a battle you know nothing about. The heroes in this book are no different. Everyone struggles. Take solace in that." -Tim Ferriss
"Age doesn't matter: an open mind does." -Tim Ferriss
"In the end, winning is sleeping better.' —Jodie Foster" -Tim Ferriss
"It is far more lucrative and fun to leverage your strengths instead of attempting to fix all the chinks in your armor." -Tim Ferriss
"When I wake up in the morning, I’m thinking to myself: What can I do to be ready for that moment, which is coming? That propels me out of bed." -Tim Ferriss
"What problem do you face every day that nobody has solved yet?' or 'What is a great company no one has started?' I will" -Tim Ferriss
"Sports just happen to be excellent for avoiding foreign-language stage fright and developing lasting friendships while still sounding like Tarzan." -Tim Ferriss
"Age doesn’t matter; an open mind does." -Tim Ferriss
"The first ten minutes of sorting through clothing was like choosing which child of mine should live or die." -Tim Ferriss
"Pure hell forces action, but anything less can be endured with enough clever rationalization." -Tim Ferriss
"people, even good people, will unknowingly abuse your time to the extent that you let them. Set good rules for all involved to minimize back-and-forth and meaningless communication." -Tim Ferriss
"The fishing is best where the fewest go," -Tim Ferriss
"Becoming a member of the NR is not just about working smarter. It's about building a system to replace yourself." -Tim Ferriss
"You always have three options. You can change it, you can accept it, or you can leave it. What is not a good option is to sit around wishing you would change it but not changing it, wishing you would leave it but not leaving it, and not accepting it. It’s that struggle, that aversion, that is responsible for most of our misery. The phrase that I probably use the most to myself in my head is just one word: accept." -Tim Ferriss
"One does not accumulate but eliminate. It is not daily increase but daily decrease. The height of cultivation always runs to simplicity. —BRUCE LEE" -Tim Ferriss
"Being busy is most often used as a guise for avoiding the few critically important but uncomfortable actions." -Tim Ferriss
"Fighting emotions is like flailing in quicksand—it only makes things worse. Sometimes, the most proactive 'defense' is a mental nod and wink." -Tim Ferriss
"Life shrinks or expands in proportion to one’s courage.' –Anaïs Nin" -Tim Ferriss
"Nothing breaks my heart more than seeing that person who’s struggling to lose weight who thinks that they need to run 20 miles a week. They have no desire to do it, their knees hurt, they hate it, and they’re not losing weight. And I’d like to say, ‘Well, I’ve got great news for you. You don’t ever need to run another step a day in your life, because there’s no value in that.’ 'There is value in exercise, though, and I think that the most important type of exercise, especially in terms of bang for your buck, is going to be really high-intensity, heavy strength training. Strength training aids everything from glucose disposal and metabolic health to mitochondrial density and orthopedic stability. That last one might not mean much when you’re a 30-something young buck, but when you’re in your 70s, that’s the difference between a broken hip and a walk in the park." -Tim Ferriss
"There are two synergistic approaches for increasing productivity that are inversions of each other:1. Limit tasks to the important to shorten work time (80/20).2. Shorten work time to limit tasks to the important (Parkinson's Law).The best solution is to use both together: Identify the few critical tasks that contribute most to income and schedule them with very short and clear deadlines." -Tim Ferriss
"For the employee, the goal is to have full access to necessary information and as much independent decision-making ability as possible. For the entrepreneur, the goal is to grant as much information and independent decision-making ability to employees or contractors as possible." -Tim Ferriss
"Busy' = Out of Control 'Every time people contact me, they say, ‘Look, I know you must be incredibly busy . . .’ and I always think, ‘No, I’m not.’ Because I’m in control of my time. I’m on top of it. ‘Busy,’ to me, seems to imply ‘out of control.’ Like, ‘Oh my God, I’m so busy. I don’t have any time for this shit!’ To me, that sounds like a person who’s got no control over their life.' TF: Lack of time is lack of priorities. If I’m 'busy,' it is because I’ve made choices that put me in that position, so I’ve forbidden myself to reply to 'How are you?' with 'Busy.' I have no right to complain. Instead, if I’m too busy, it’s a cue to reexamine my systems and rules." -Tim Ferriss
"Happiness can be bought with a bottle of wine and has become ambiguous through overuse." -Tim Ferriss
"You must want to be a butterfly so badly, you are willing to give up being a caterpillar." -Tim Ferriss
"Happiness is a choice you make and a skill you develop." -Tim Ferriss
"Doing the Unrealistic Is Easier Than Doing the Realistic" -Tim Ferriss
"Simple works, complex fails." -Tim Ferriss
"When you feel overwhelmed or unfocused, what do you do? I have a friend at the gym who knew Jack LaLanne (Google him if the name is unfamiliar). Jack used to say it’s okay to take a day off from working out. But on that day, you’re not allowed to eat. That’s the short way of saying you’re not really allowed to get unfocused. Take a vacation. Gather yourself. But know that the only reason you’re here on this planet is to follow your star and do what the Muse tells you. It’s amazing how a good day’s work will get you right back to feeling like yourself." -Tim Ferriss
"How is it possible that all the people in the world need exactly 8 hours to accomplish their work? It isn’t. 9–5 is arbitrary." -Tim Ferriss
"Learning to ignore things is one of the great paths to inner peace. —ROBERT J. SAWYER, Calculating God" -Tim Ferriss
"Meetings are an addictive, highly self-indulgent activity that corporations and other organizations habitually engage in only because they cannot actually masturbate. —DAVE BARRY, Pulitzer Prize–winning American humorist" -Tim Ferriss
"If you can’t define it or act upon it, forget it." -Tim Ferriss
"Strauss, Neil: '‘The trouble with most of us is that we would rather be ruined by praise than saved by criticism.’—Norman Vincent Peale" -Tim Ferriss
"What is the 20% of my belongings that I use 80% of the time? Eliminate the other 80% in clothing, magazines, books, and all else. Be ruthless - you can always repurchase things you can't live without." -Tim Ferriss
"Don’t save it all for the end. There is every reason not to." -Tim Ferriss
"Most information is time-consuming, negative, irrelevant to your goals, and outside of your influence. I challenge you to look at whatever you read or watched today and tell me that it wasn’t at least two of the four. I read the front-page headlines through" -Tim Ferriss
"What man actually needs is not a tensionless state but rather the striving and struggling for a worthwhile goal, a freely chosen task. —VIKTOR E. FRANKL, Holocaust survivor; author of Man’s Search for Meaning" -Tim Ferriss
"The wisdom of life consists in the elimination of non-essentials.' —Lin Yutang" -Tim Ferriss
"most people spend most of their time on defense, in reactive mode, in playing with the cards they got instead of moving to a different table with different cards. Instead" -Tim Ferriss
"Tomorrow becomes never. No matter how small the task, take the first step now!" -Tim Ferriss
"take things like playfulness and purposelessness very seriously. . . . This is not meant to be light, but I think I would have somehow encouraged myself to let go a little bit more and hang in there and not pretend to know where this is all going. You don’t need to know where it’s all going." -Tim Ferriss
"When you’re thinking of how to make your business bigger, it’s tempting to try to think all the big thoughts, the world-changing, massive-action plans. But please know that it’s often the tiny details that really thrill someone enough to make them tell all their friends about you." -Tim Ferriss
"the major fears of modern man could be boiled down to two things: too much e-mail and getting fat." -Tim Ferriss
"Everything popular is wrong. —OSCAR WILDE, The Importance of Being Earnest" -Tim Ferriss
"With a decrease in the number of pirates, there has been an increase in global warming over the same period. Therefore, global warming is caused by a lack of pirates. Even more compelling: Somalia has the highest number of Pirates AND the lowest Carbon emissions of any country. Coincidence?" -Tim Ferriss
"Less Is Not LazinessDoing less meaningless work, so that you can focus on things of greater personal importance, is NOT laziness. This is hard for most to accept, because our culture tends to reward personal sacrifice instead of personal productivity." -Tim Ferriss
"If you want great mentors, you have to become a great mentee. If you want to lead, you have to first learn to follow. Ben" -Tim Ferriss
"Don’t aim at success. The more you aim at it and make it a target, the more you are going to miss it. For success, like happiness, cannot be pursued. . . . Happiness must happen, and the same holds for success: you have to let it happen by not caring about it. I want you to listen to what your conscience commands you to do and go on to carry it out to the best of your knowledge. Then you will live to see that in the long-run—in the long-run, I say!—success will follow you precisely because you had forgotten to think about it.' —Viktor E. Frankl, Man’s Search for Meaning" -Tim Ferriss
"If I want a better-than-average career, I can’t simply ‘go with the flow’ and get it. Most people do just that: they wish for an outcome but make no intention-driven actions toward that outcome. If they would just do something most people would find that they get some version of the outcome they’re looking for. That’s been my secret. Stop wishing and start doing." -Tim Ferriss
"Kids don’t do what you say. They do what they see. How you live your life is their example." -Tim Ferriss
"The factory of the future will have only two employees, a man and a dog. The man will be there to feed the dog. The dog will be there to keep the man from touching the equipment. —WARREN G. BENNIS," -Tim Ferriss
"At least three time per day at scheduled times, he had to ask himself the following question: Am I being productive or just active? Charney captured the essence of this with less-abstract wording: Am I inventing things to do to avoid the important? He eliminated all of the activities he used as crutches and began to focus on demonstrating results instead of showing dedication. Dedication is often just meaningless work in disguise. Be ruthless and cut the fat." -Tim Ferriss
"The Tail End' by Tim Urban on the Wait But Why blog—if you only read one article this month, make it that one. It" -Tim Ferriss
"This is the best thing you’re ever going to learn in SEAL training.’ We were excited to learn what it was, and he told us that when you’re a leader, people are going to mimic your behavior, at a minimum. . . . It’s a guarantee. So here’s the key piece of advice, this is all he said: ‘Calm is contagious." -Tim Ferriss
"Make mistakes of ambition and not mistakes of sloth. Develop the strength to do bold things, not the strength to suffer. —NICCOLÒ MACHIAVELLI, The Prince" -Tim Ferriss
"Most people are fast to stop you before you get started but hesitant to get in the way if you’re moving." -Tim Ferriss
"There’s no difference between a pessimist who says, 'Oh, it’s hopeless, so don’t bother doing anything,' and an optimist who says, 'Don’t bother doing anything, it’s going to turn out fine anyway.' Either way, nothing happens. —YVON CHOUINARD,7 founder of Patagonia" -Tim Ferriss
"One of the most universal causes of self-doubt and depression: trying to impress people you don't like. Stressing to impress is fine, but do it for the right people - those you want to emulate." -Tim Ferriss
"By working faithfully eight hours a day, you may eventually get to be a boss and work twelve hours a day. —ROBERT FROST, American poet and winner of four Pulitzer Prizes" -Tim Ferriss
"Relative income uses two variables: the dollar and time, usually hours." -Tim Ferriss
"What are three tests or practices from the military that civilians could use to help develop mental toughness?': STAN: 'The first is to push yourself harder than you believe you’re capable of. You’ll find new depth inside yourself. The second is to put yourself in groups who share difficulties, discomfort. We used to call it ‘shared privation.’ You’ll find that when you have been through that kind of difficult environment, that you feel more strongly about that which you’re committed to. And finally, create some fear and make individuals overcome it." -Tim Ferriss
"Good Stories Always Beat Good Spreadsheets' 'Whether you are raising money, pitching your product to customers, selling the company, or recruiting employees, never forget that underneath all the math and the MBA bullshit talk, we are all still emotionally driven human beings. We want to attach ourselves to narratives. We don’t act because of equations. We follow our beliefs. We get behind leaders who stir our feelings. In the early days of your venture, if you find someone diving too deep into the numbers, that means they are struggling to find a reason to deeply care about you." -Tim Ferriss
"Give me six hours to chop down a tree and I’ll spend the first four sharpening the axe.' —Abraham Lincoln" -Tim Ferriss
"Someday' is a disease that will take your dreams to the grave with you. Pro and con lists are just as bad. If it’s important to you and you want to do it 'eventually,' just do it and correct course along the way." -Tim Ferriss
"The miracle is not to walk on water. The miracle is to walk on the green earth, dwelling deeply in the present moment and feeling truly alive. —THICH NHAT HANH" -Tim Ferriss
"Law 6: When forced to compromise, ask for more. Law 7: If you can’t win, change the rules. Law 8: If you can’t change the rules, then ignore them. Law 11: 'No' simply means begin again at one level higher. Law 13: When in doubt: THINK. Law 16: The faster you move, the slower time passes, the longer you live. Law 17: The best way to predict the future is to create it yourself. (adopted from Alan Kay) Law 19: You get what you incentivize. Law 22: The day before something is a breakthrough, it’s a crazy idea. Law 26: If you can’t measure it, you can’t improve it." -Tim Ferriss
"Even if you are predisposed to being overweight, you’re not predestined to be fat." -Tim Ferriss
"The means of learning are abundant—it’s the desire to learn that’s scarce." -Tim Ferriss
"One evening, intending to ask my host mother to wake me the next morning (okosu), I ask her to violently rape me (okasu). She is very confused." -Tim Ferriss
"I'm often asked how I define 'success.' It's an overused term, but I fundamentally view this elusive beast as a combination of two things - achievement and appreciation. One isn't enough: Achievement without appreciation makes you ambitious but miserable.Appreciation without achievement makes you unambitious but happy." -Tim Ferriss
"All those artists and writers who bemoan how hard the work is, and oh, how tedious the creative process, and oh, what a tortured genius they are. Don’t buy into it. . . . As if difficulty and struggle and torture somehow confer seriousness upon your chosen work. Doing great work simply because you love it, sounds, in our culture, somehow flimsy, and that’s a failing of our culture, not of the choice of work that artists make.' This" -Tim Ferriss
"Remembering that you are going to die is the best way I know to avoid the trap of thinking you have something to lose." -Tim Ferriss
"My maxim comes from Samuel Beckett, a personal hero of mine: ‘Ever tried. Ever failed. No matter. Try again. Fail again. Fail better.’ You won’t believe what you can accomplish by attempting the impossible with the courage to repeatedly fail better." -Tim Ferriss
"Americans who travel abroad for the first time are often shocked to discover that, despite all the progress that has been made in the last 30 years, many foreign people still speak in foreign languages. —DAVE BARRY" -Tim Ferriss
"Ben Franklin’s excellent advice: 'If you would not be forgotten as soon as you are dead and rotten, either write things worth reading, or do things worth writing." -Tim Ferriss
"What you do is more important than how you do everything else, and doing something well does not make it important." -Tim Ferriss
"I believe that success can be measured in the number of uncomfortable conversations you’re willing to have." -Tim Ferriss
"But not having cable or the Internet turns out to be cheaper than having them. And nature is still technically free, even if human beings have tried to make access to it expensive. Time and quiet should not be luxury items." -Tim Ferriss
"Don’t confuse the complex with the difficult. Most situations are simple—many are just emotionally difficult to act upon." -Tim Ferriss
"Parkinson’s Law dictates that a task will swell in (perceived) importance and complexity in relation to the time allotted for its completion." -Tim Ferriss
"Learn the rules like a pro, so you can break them like an artist.' —Pablo Picasso" -Tim Ferriss
"The New Rich ( NR) are those who abandon the deferred-life plan and create luxury lifestyles in the present using the currency of the New Rich: time and mobility." -Tim Ferriss
"1. Limit tasks to the important to shorten work time (80/20). 2. Shorten work time to limit tasks to the important (Parkinson’s Law)." -Tim Ferriss
"Not life, but good life, is to be chiefly valued. —Socrates" -Tim Ferriss
"If the best in the world are stretching their asses off in order to get strong, why aren’t you?" -Tim Ferriss
"What do you want?' is too imprecise to produce a meaningful and actionable answer." -Tim Ferriss
"No one owes you anything." -Tim Ferriss
"Learn to slow down. Get lost intentionally. Observe how you judge both yourself and those around you." -Tim Ferriss
"a person’s success in life can usually be measured by the number of uncomfortable conversations he or she is willing to have." -Tim Ferriss
"So red teaming is: You take people who aren’t wedded to the plan and [ask them,] ‘How would you disrupt this plan or how would you defeat this plan?’ If you have a very thoughtful red team, you’ll produce stunning results." -Tim Ferriss
"we end up spending (as Thoreau put it) 'the best part of one’s life earning money in order to enjoy a questionable liberty during the least valuable part of it.' We’d love to drop all and explore the world outside, we tell ourselves, but the time never seems right. Thus, given an unlimited amount of choices, we make none. Settling into our lives, we get so obsessed with holding on to our domestic certainties that we forget why we desired them in the first place." -Tim Ferriss
"What gets measured gets managed. —PETER DRUCKER, management theorist, author" -Tim Ferriss
"the key to not feeling rushed is remembering that lack of time is actually lack of priorities. Take time to stop and smell the roses, or—in this case—to count the pea pods." -Tim Ferriss
"In any situation in life, you only have three options. You always have three options. You can change it, you can accept it, or you can leave it. What is not a good option is to sit around wishing you would change it but not changing it, wishing you would leave it but not leaving it, and not accepting it. It’s that struggle, that aversion, that is responsible for most of our misery. The phrase that I probably use the most to myself in my head is just one word: accept." -Tim Ferriss
"Anyone who lives within their means suffers from a lack of imagination. —OSCAR WILDE," -Tim Ferriss
"courage was more important than confidence. When you are operating out of courage, you are saying that no matter how you feel about yourself or your opportunities or the outcome, you are going to take a risk and take a step toward what you want. You are not waiting for the confidence to mysteriously arrive. I now believe that confidence is achieved through repeated success at any endeavor." -Tim Ferriss
"Most information is time-consuming, negative, irrelevant to your goals, and outside of your influence." -Tim Ferriss
"Any man who reads too much and uses his own brain too little falls into lazy habits of thinking. —ALBERT EINSTEIN" -Tim Ferriss
"The struggle ends when the gratitude begins." -Tim Ferriss
"80% of the results come from 20% of the effort and time." -Tim Ferriss
"Top academic institutions are wonderful, but there are unrecognized benefits to not coming out of one. Grads from top schools are funneled into high-income 80-hour-per-week jobs, and 15–30 years of soul-crushing work has been accepted as the default path. How do I know? I’ve been there and" -Tim Ferriss
"Dreamline Questions:What are you good at?What could you be the best at?What makes you happy?What excites you?What makes you feel accomplished and good about yourself?What are you most proud of having accomplished in your life? Can you repeat this or further develop it?What do you enjoy sharing or experiencing with other people?" -Tim Ferriss
"Options - the ability to choose - is real power. This book is all about how to see and create those options with the least effort and cost. It just so happens, paradoxically, that you can make more money - a lot more money - by doing half of what you are doing now." -Tim Ferriss
"People think focus means saying yes to the thing you’ve got to focus on. But that’s not what it means at all. It means saying no to the hundred other good ideas that there are. You have to pick carefully. I’m actually as proud of the things we haven’t done as the things I have done. Innovation is saying no to 1,000 things.' –Steve Jobs" -Tim Ferriss
"Parkinson’s Law dictates that a task will swell in (perceived) importance and complexity in relation to the time allotted for its completion. It" -Tim Ferriss
"Nobody can give you freedom. Nobody can give you equality or justice or anything. If you’re a man, you take it. —MALCOLM X, Malcolm X Speaks" -Tim Ferriss
"In cooking—as in business and war—hope for the best but plan for the worst." -Tim Ferriss
"Did you eat half an Oreo cookie? No problem. If you’re a 220-pound male, you just need to climb 27 flights of stairs to burn it off." -Tim Ferriss
"A goal without real consequences is wishful thinking. Good follow-through doesn't depend on the right intentions. It depends on the right incentives." -Tim Ferriss
"Problems, as a rule, solve themselves or disappear if you remove yourself as an information bottleneck and empower others." -Tim Ferriss
"Trying to get everyone to like you is a sign of mediocrity. You’ll avoid the tough decisions, and you’ll avoid confronting the people who need to be confronted.'—Colin Powell" -Tim Ferriss
"The best defense is a good offense. —DAN GABLE, Olympic gold medalist in wrestling and the most successful coach in history; personal record: 299–6–3, with 182 pins" -Tim Ferriss
"Capitalism rewards things that are both rare and valuable. You make yourself rare by combining two or more 'pretty goods' until no one else has your mix. ." -Tim Ferriss
"Einstein said, 'If I had an hour to solve a problem, I’d spend 55 minutes thinking about the problem and five minutes thinking about solutions." -Tim Ferriss
"Our point is, if you try to approach every problem with your moral compass, first and foremost, you’re going to make a lot of mistakes. You’re going to exclude a lot of possible good solutions. You’re going to assume you know a lot of things, when in fact you don’t, and you’re not going to be a good partner in reaching a solution with other people who don’t happen to see the world the way you do." -Tim Ferriss
"Sparta, Rome, the knights of Europe, the samurai . . . worshipped strength. Because it is strength that makes all other values possible." -Tim Ferriss
"If the recipe sucks, it doesn’t matter how good a cook you are." -Tim Ferriss
"Being overwhelmed is often as unproductive as doing nothing, and is far more unpleasant. Being selective—doing less—is the path of the productive." -Tim Ferriss
"If you don’t believe in an afterlife, then you [should realize] that this is such a short and precious life, it is really important that you don’t spend it being unhappy. There is no excuse for spending most of your life in misery. You’ve only got 70 years out of the 50 billion or however long the universe is going to be around." -Tim Ferriss
"there has never been a better time for testing the uncommon." -Tim Ferriss
"you are insecure, guess what? The rest of the world is, too. Do not overestimate the competition and underestimate yourself. You are better than you think." -Tim Ferriss
"The existential vacuum manifests itself mainly in a state of boredom. —VIKTOR FRANKL, Auschwitz survivor and founder of Logotherapy, Man’s Search for Meaning" -Tim Ferriss
"As Tony Robbins would say, 'The quality of your questions determines the quality of your life." -Tim Ferriss
"Remember: There is a direct correlation between an increased sphere of comfort and getting what you want." -Tim Ferriss
"I’ve realized that instead of following the trends, you want to identify the trends but not follow them. It’s good to recognize trends, but if you follow them, you get sucked into them, and then you also fall with the trend." -Tim Ferriss
"If you're confused about life, you're not alone. There are almost seven billion of us. This isn't a problem, of course, once you realize that life is neither a problem to be solved nor a game to be won. If you are too intent on making the pieces of a nonexistent puzzle fit, you miss out on all the real fun. The heaviness of success-chasing can be replaced with a serendipitous lightness when you recognize that the only rules and limits are those we set for ourselves." -Tim Ferriss
"I wish I would have known that there was no need to wait. I went to college. I went to law school. I worked in law and banking, though not for terribly long. But not until I started PayPal did I fully realize that you don’t have to wait to start something.So if you’re planning to do something with your life, if you have a 10-year plan of how to get there, you should ask: Why can’t you do this in 6 months? Sometimes, you have to actually go through the complex, 10-year trajectory. But it’s at least worth asking whether that’s the story you’re telling yourself, or whether that’s the reality." -Tim Ferriss
"Adapt what is useful, reject what is useless, and add what is specifically your own." -Tim Ferriss
"The more we associate experience with cash value, the more we think that money is what we need to live. And the more we associate money with life, the more we convince ourselves that we’re too poor to buy our freedom. With" -Tim Ferriss
"you can use positive constraints to increase perceived free will and results. Freeform days might seem idyllic, but they are paralyzing due to continual paradox of choice (e.g., 'What should I do now?') and decision fatigue (e.g., 'What should I have for breakfast?'). In" -Tim Ferriss
"More than 80% of the interviewees have some form of daily mindfulness or meditation practice" -Tim Ferriss
"We are simultaneously gods and worms.'—Abraham Maslow" -Tim Ferriss
"Borrow liberally, combine uniquely, and create your own bespoke blueprint." -Tim Ferriss
"It is no measure of health to be well adjusted to a profoundly sick society.' —J. Krishnamurti" -Tim Ferriss
"1. Doing something unimportant well does not make it important. 2. Requiring a lot of time does not make a task important." -Tim Ferriss
"Morality is simply the attitude we adopt toward people we personally dislike.      —OSCAR WILDE" -Tim Ferriss
"The first is the result of a decision to act—to do something. This type of mistake is made with incomplete information, as it’s impossible to have all the facts beforehand. This is to be encouraged. Fortune favors the bold. The second is the result of a decision of sloth—to not do something—wherein we refuse to change a bad situation out of fear despite having all the facts. This is how learning experiences become terminal punishments, bad relationships become bad marriages, and poor job choices become lifelong prison sentences." -Tim Ferriss
"everything changes. Snow becomes water. It’s beautiful because it changes. Things are fleeting. It felt so beautiful to be part of this weird world in that moment. I felt part of the world again, rather than removed from it. It" -Tim Ferriss
"The really efficient laborer will be found not to crowd his day with work, but will saunter to his task surrounded by a wide halo of ease and leisure. There will be a wide margin for relaxation to his day. He is only earnest to secure the kernels of time, and does not exaggerate the value of the husk.’ Think" -Tim Ferriss
"If you think you are too small to be effective, you have never been in the dark with a mosquito.'—Betty Reese" -Tim Ferriss
"Which philosophers would Alain suggest for practical living? Alain’s list overlaps nearly 100% with my own: Epicurus, Seneca, Marcus Aurelius, Plato, Michel de Montaigne, Arthur Schopenhauer, Friedrich Nietzsche, and Bertrand Russell. * Most-gifted or recommended books? The Unbearable Lightness of Being by Milan Kundera, Essays of Michel de Montaigne. * Favorite documentary The Up series: This ongoing series is filmed in the UK, and revisits the same group of people every 7 years. It started with their 7th birthdays (Seven Up!) and continues up to present day, when they are in their 50s. Subjects were picked from a wide variety of social backgrounds. Alain calls these very undramatic and quietly powerful films 'probably the best documentary that exists.' TF: This is also the favorite of Stephen Dubner on page 574. Stephen says, 'If you are at all interested in any kind of science or sociology, or human decision-making, or nurture versus nature, it is the best thing ever.' * Advice to your 30-year-old self? 'I would have said, ‘Appreciate what’s good about this moment. Don’t always think that you’re on a permanent journey. Stop and enjoy the view.’ . . . I always had this assumption that if you appreciate the moment, you’re weakening your resolve to improve your circumstances. That’s not true, but I think when you’re young, it’s sort of associated with that. . . . I had people around me who’d say things like, ‘Oh, a flower, nice.’ A little part of me was thinking, ‘You absolute loser. You’ve taken time to appreciate a flower? Do you not have bigger plans? I mean, this the limit of your ambition?’ and when life’s knocked you around a bit and when you’ve seen a few things, and time has happened and you’ve got some years under your belt, you start to think more highly of modest things like flowers and a pretty sky, or just a morning where nothing’s wrong and everyone’s been pretty nice to everyone else. . . . Fortune can do anything with us. We are very fragile creatures. You only need to tap us or hit us in slightly the wrong place. . . . You only have to push us a little bit, and we crack very easily, whether that’s the pressure of disgrace or physical illness, financial pressure, etc. It doesn’t take very much. So, we do have to appreciate every day that goes by without a major disaster." -Tim Ferriss
"The very word ‘success’ has become contaminated by our ideas of someone extraordinary, very rich, etc., and that’s really unhelpful…. Ultimately, to be properly successful is to be at peace as well." -Tim Ferriss
"If you want to improve, be content to be thought foolish and stupid.'—Epictetus" -Tim Ferriss
"What are bad recommendations you hear in your profession or area of expertise? If you put ten people in a room and they have to choose an ice cream flavor, they’re gonna arrive at vanilla. There is always constant pressure to conform. But originality only happens on the edges of reality. And working on that line is always dangerous because it’s only a short step to disconnected insanity. So resist temptations and advice to play to the middle. The best work always comes from pushing the edge." -Tim Ferriss
"Refuse to accept partial completeness." -Tim Ferriss
"If you can’t see yourself working with someone for life, don’t work with them for a day." -Tim Ferriss
"People say that what we are seeking is a meaning for life. I don’t think this is what we’re really seeking. I think what we’re seeking is an experience of being alive. —JOSEPH CAMPBELL, The Power of Myth" -Tim Ferriss
"Adults are always asking kids what they want to be when they grow up because they are looking for ideas. —PAULA POUNDSTONE" -Tim Ferriss
"Poisonous people do not deserve your time. To think otherwise is masochistic. The best way to approach a potential break is simple: Confide in them honestly but tactfully and explain your concerns. If they bite back, your conclusions have been confirmed. Drop them like any other bad habit. If they promise to change, first spend at least two weeks apart to develop other positive influences in your life and diminish psychological dependency. The next trial period should have a set duration and consist of pass-or-fail criteria. If this approach is too confrontational for you, just politely refuse to interact with them. Be in the middle of something when the call comes, and have a prior commitment when the invitation to hang out comes. Once you see the benefits of decreased time with these people, it will be easier to stop communication altogether." -Tim Ferriss
"The opposite of play isn’t work. It’s depression." -Tim Ferriss
"Life is too short to be small.      —BENJAMIN DISRAELI" -Tim Ferriss
"Many students come to me full of wonderful intentions hoping to change the world; they plan to spend their time helping the poor and disadvantaged. I tell them to first graduate and make a lot of money, and only then figure out how best to help those in need. Too often students can’t meaningfully help the disadvantaged now, even if it makes them feel good for trying to. I have seen so many former students in their late 30s and 40s struggling to make ends meet. They spent their time in college doing good rather than building their careers and futures. I warn students today to be careful how they use their precious time and to think carefully about when is the right time to help. It’s a well-worn cliché, but you have to help yourself before you help others. This is too often lost on idealistic students. I am often asked whether one should" -Tim Ferriss
"Self-sufficiency is another word for poverty.' Matt Ridley TW: @" -Tim Ferriss
"Develop the strength to do bold things, not the strength to suffer." -Tim Ferriss
"Charlie’s Almanack, Influence, and Man’s Search for Meaning, among others The habit of listening to single songs on repeat for focus (page 507) Nearly everyone has done some form of 'spec' work (completing projects on their own time and dime, then submitting them to prospective buyers) The belief that 'failure is not durable' (see Robert Rodriguez, page 628) or variants thereof Almost every guest has been able to take obvious 'weaknesses' and turn them into huge competitive advantages (see Arnold Schwarzenegger, page 176)" -Tim Ferriss
"Show up in every moment like you’re meant to be there, because your energy precedes anything you could possibly say.' Marie Forleo" -Tim Ferriss
"People think it must be fun to be a super genius, but they don’t realize how hard it is to put up with all the idiots in the world. —CALVIN, from Calvin and Hobbes" -Tim Ferriss
"We create stress for ourselves because you feel like you have to do it. You have to. I don’t feel that anymore. —OPRAH WINFREY, actress and talk-show host, The Oprah Winfrey Show" -Tim Ferriss
"Does history record any case in which the majority was right? —Robert Heinlein" -Tim Ferriss
"Too much, too many, and too often of what you want becomes what you don’t want." -Tim Ferriss
"Write about a time when you realized you were mistaken. ► Write about a lesson you learned the hard way. ► Write about a time you were inappropriately dressed for the occasion. ► Write about something you lost that you’ll never get back. ► Write about a time when you knew you’d done the right thing. ► Write about something you don’t remember. ► Write about your darkest teacher. ► Write about a memory of a physical injury. ► Write about when you knew it was over. ► Write about being loved. ► Write about what you were really thinking. ► Write about how you found your way back. ► Write about the kindness of strangers. ► Write about why you could not do it. ► Write about why you did." -Tim Ferriss
"For a long time, I’ve known that the key to getting started down the path of being remarkable in anything is to simply act with the intention of being remarkable." -Tim Ferriss
"A schedule defends from chaos and whim. It is a net for catching days.' –Annie Dillard" -Tim Ferriss
"To quote the industrial statistician George Box: 'Every model is wrong, but some are useful." -Tim Ferriss
"Out of clutter, find simplicity. —Albert Einstein" -Tim Ferriss
"Seeing progress in changing numbers makes the repetitive fascinating and creates a positive feedback loop. Once again, the act of measuring is often more important than what you measure. To quote the industrial statistician George Box: 'Every model is wrong, but some are useful." -Tim Ferriss
"Ravikant, Naval: '‘Desire is a contract that you make with yourself to be unhappy until you get what you want’ (paraphrased" -Tim Ferriss
"The Logic of the Double or Triple Threat On 'career advice,' Scott has written the following, which is slightly trimmed for space here. This is effectively my mantra, and you’ll see why I bring it up: If you want an average, successful life, it doesn’t take much planning. Just stay out of trouble, go to school, and apply for jobs you might like. But if you want something extraordinary, you have two paths: 1) Become the best at one specific thing. 2) Become very good (top 25%) at two or more things. The first strategy is difficult to the point of near impossibility. Few people will ever play in the NBA or make a platinum album. I don’t recommend anyone even try. The second strategy is fairly easy. Everyone has at least a few areas in which they could be in the top 25% with some effort. In my case, I can draw better than most people, but I’m hardly an artist. And I’m not any funnier than the average standup comedian who never makes it big, but I’m funnier than most people. The magic is that few people can draw well and write jokes. It’s the combination of the two that makes what I do so rare. And when you add in my business background, suddenly I had a topic that few cartoonists could hope to understand without living it." -Tim Ferriss
"Life punishes the vague wish and rewards the specific ask. After all, conscious thinking is largely asking and answering questions in your own head." -Tim Ferriss
"The worst that could happen wasn’t crashing and burning, it was accepting terminal boredom as a tolerable status quo." -Tim Ferriss
"If only I had more money' is the easiest way to postpone the intense self-examination and decision-making necessary to create a life of enjoyment- now and not later. By using money as the scapegoat and work as our all-consuming routine, we are able to conveniently disallow ourselves the time to do otherwise." -Tim Ferriss
"Weirdness is why we adore our friends. . . . Weirdness is what bonds us to our colleagues. Weirdness is what sets us apart, gets us hired. Be your unapologetically weird self. In fact, being weird may even find you the ultimate happiness." -Tim Ferriss
"the tricky thing about life is, on the one hand having the courage to enter into things that are unfamiliar, but also having the wisdom to stop exploring when you’ve found something worth sticking around for. That is true of a place, of a person, of a vocation. Balancing those two things—the courage of exploring and the commitment to staying—and getting the ratio right is very hard. I think my 70-year-old self would say: ‘Be careful that you don’t err on one side or the other, because you have an ill-conceived idea of who you are." -Tim Ferriss
"Most people will choose unhappiness over uncertainty." -Tim Ferriss
"When you feel overwhelmed or unfocused, what do you do? I change my physiology. If I am near waves, I go surf them. If not, a short, intense kettlebell workout, a bike ride, a swim, a cold shower or ice plunge, Wim Hof or heart rate variability breathing [see Adam Robinson, for a description]. It’s remarkable how the mind follows the body." -Tim Ferriss
"What advice would you give to a smart, driven college student about to enter the 'real world'? What advice should they ignore? [My advice:] Pursue every project, idea, or industry that genuinely lights you up, regardless of how unrelated each idea is, or how unrealistic a long-term career in that field might now seem. You’ll connect the dots later. Work your fucking ass off and develop a reputation for going above and beyond in all situations. Do whatever it takes to earn enough money, so that you can go all in on experiences or learning opportunities that put you in close proximity to people you admire, because proximity is power. Show up in every moment like you’re meant to be there, because your energy precedes anything you could possibly say. Ignore the advice to specialize in one thing, unless you’re certain that’s how you want to roll. Ignore giving a shit about what other people think about your career choices or what you do for a living—especially if what you do for a living funds your career choices. Ignore the impulse to dial down your enthusiasm for fear it’ll be perceived as unprofessional. And especially for women, ignore societal and familial pressures to get married and have kids." -Tim Ferriss
"Whenever you find yourself on the side of the majority, it is time to pause and reflect." -Tim Ferriss
"What will the people who don’t hold you in highest regard say about you?" -Tim Ferriss
"Doing less meaningless work, so that you can focus on things of greater personal importance, is NOT laziness." -Tim Ferriss
"Diversity in counsel, unity in command.' –Cyrus the Great" -Tim Ferriss
"Losing makes you think in ways victories can’t. You begin asking questions instead of feeling like you have the answers. Questions open up the doors to so many possibilities." -Tim Ferriss
"The genuine love for reading itself, when cultivated, is a superpower. We live in the age of Alexandria, when every book and every piece of knowledge ever written down is a fingertip away. The means of learning are abundant—it’s the desire to learn that’s scarce." -Tim Ferriss
"These individuals have riches just as we say that we ‘have a fever,’ when really the fever has us.' –Seneca Roman Stoic philosopher, famed playwright" -Tim Ferriss
"Look creatively at your resume, work experience, physical habits, and hobbies and compile a list of all the groups, past and present, that you can associate yourself with." -Tim Ferriss
"Mastery is a journey, not a destination. True masters never believe they have attained mastery. There is always more to be learned and greater skill to be developed." -Tim Ferriss
"It is fatal to know too much at the outcome: boredom comes as quickly to the traveler who knows his route as to the novelist who is overcertain of his plot. —PAUL THEROUX, To the Ends of the Earth" -Tim Ferriss
"Most good chefs believe there is no such thing as too much garlic." -Tim Ferriss
"I wish I would have known that there was no need to wait. I went to college. I went to law school. I worked in law and banking, though not for terribly long. But not until I started PayPal did I fully realize that you don’t have to wait to start something. So if you’re planning to do something with your life, if you have a 10-year plan of how to get there, you should ask: Why can’t you do this in 6 months? Sometimes, you have to actually go through the complex, 10-year trajectory. But it’s at least worth asking whether that’s the story you’re telling yourself, or whether that’s the reality." -Tim Ferriss
"What we really need to do, to design, is look at the extremes. The weakest, or the person with arthritis, or the athlete, or the strongest, the fastest person, because if we understand what the extremes are, the middle will take care of itself.' In other words, the extremes inform the mean, but not vice versa." -Tim Ferriss
"If you must play, decide on three things at the start: the rules of the game, the stakes, and the quitting time. —CHINESE PROVERB" -Tim Ferriss
"The minimum effective dose (MED) is defined simply: the smallest dose that will produce a desired outcome." -Tim Ferriss
"In this book, you’ll naturally look for common habits and recommendations, and you should. Here are a few patterns, some odder than others: More than 80% of the interviewees have some form of daily mindfulness or meditation practice A surprising number of males (not females) over 45 never eat breakfast, or eat only the scantiest of fare (e.g., Laird Hamilton, page 92; Malcolm Gladwell, page 572; General Stanley McChrystal, page 435) Many use the ChiliPad device for cooling at bedtime Rave reviews of the books Sapiens, Poor" -Tim Ferriss
"Sometimes, you think you have to figure out your life’s purpose, but you really just need some macadamia nuts and a cold fucking shower." -Tim Ferriss
"The genuine love for reading itself, when cultivated, is a superpower. We live in the age of Alexandria, when every book and every piece of knowledge ever written down is a fingertip away. The means of learning are abundant—it’s the desire to learn that’s scarce. Cultivate that desire by reading what you want, not what you’re 'supposed to." -Tim Ferriss
"REMEMBER: it is impossible to evaluate, or even understand, anything that you cannot measure.' 80" -Tim Ferriss
"And if all else fails, I try to obey this message I got in a Chinese fortune cookie (which I have since taped to my laptop): 'Avoid compulsively making things worse." -Tim Ferriss
"If you are distressed by anything external, the pain is not due to the thing itself, but to your estimate of it; and this you have the power to revoke at any moment.' –Marcus Aurelius" -Tim Ferriss
"An expert is a person who has made all the mistakes that can be made in a very narrow field.' –Niels Bohr" -Tim Ferriss
"Civilization had too many rules for me, so I did my best to rewrite them. —BILL COSBY" -Tim Ferriss
"Love yourself . . . You’ve got to love yourself before you can love others. Without it, nothing productive is going to happen, and we can all bang our heads on the wall." -Tim Ferriss
"Being busy is a form of laziness—lazy thinking and indiscriminate action." -Tim Ferriss
"it’s almost like, sometimes, I’m not a participant in my own life. I’m an observer of that guy who’s doing it. So, if I’m having a conversation with you and we’re trying to discuss a point, I’m watching and saying [to myself], ‘Wait, am I being too emotional right now? Wait a second, look at him. What is his reaction?’ Because I’m not reading you correctly if I’m seeing you through my own emotion or ego. I can’t really see what you’re thinking if I’m emotional. But if I step out of that, now I can see the real you and assess if you are getting angry, or if your ego is getting hurt, or if you’re about to cave because you’re just fed up with me. Whereas, if I’m raging in my own head, I might miss all of that. So being able to detach as a leader is critical." -Tim Ferriss
"Time is wasted because there is so much time available." -Tim Ferriss
"The Shortness of Life: Seneca on Busyness and the Art of Living Wide Rather Than Living Long' 'How to Find Your Purpose and Do What You Love' '9 Learnings from 9 Years of Brain Pickings' Anything about Alan Watts: 'Alan Watts has changed my life. I’ve written about him quite a bit." -Tim Ferriss
"The single book that has influenced me most is probably the last book in the world that anybody is gonna want to read: Thucydides’ History of the Peloponnesian War. This book is dense, difficult, long, full of blood and guts. It wasn’t written, as Thucydides himself attests at the start, to be easy or fun. But it is loaded with hardcore, timeless truths and the story it tells ought to be required reading for every citizen in a democracy. Thucydides was an Athenian general who was beaten and disgraced in a battle early in the 27-year conflagration that came to be called the Peloponnesian War. He decided to drop out of the fighting and dedicate himself to recording, in all the detail he could manage, this conflict, which, he felt certain, would turn out to be the greatest and most significant war ever fought up to that time. He did just that. Have you heard of Pericles’ Funeral Oration? Thucydides was there for it. He transcribed it. He was there for the debates in the Athenian assembly over the treatment of the island of Melos, the famous Melian Dialogue. If he wasn’t there for the defeat of the Athenian fleet at Syracuse or the betrayal of Athens by Alcibiades, he knew people who were there and he went to extremes to record what they told him.Thucydides, like all the Greeks of his era, was unencumbered by Christian theology, or Marxist dogma, or Freudian psychology, or any of the other 'isms' that attempt to convince us that man is basically good, or perhaps perfectible. He saw things as they were, in my opinion. It’s a dark vision but tremendously bracing and empowering because it’s true. On the island of Corcyra, a great naval power in its day, one faction of citizens trapped their neighbors and fellow Corcyreans in a temple. They slaughtered the prisoners’ children outside before their eyes and when the captives gave themselves up based on pledges of clemency and oaths sworn before the gods, the captors massacred them as well. This was not a war of nation versus nation, this was brother against brother in the most civilized cities on earth. To read Thucydides is to see our own world in microcosm. It’s the study of how democracies destroy themselves by breaking down into warring factions, the Few versus the Many. Hoi polloi in Greek means 'the many.' Oligoi means 'the few.' I can’t recommend Thucydides for fun, but if you want to expose yourself to a towering intellect writing on the deepest stuff imaginable, give it a try." -Tim Ferriss
"It is fatal to know too much at the outset. Boredom comes as quickly to the traveler who knows his route as the novelist who is over certain of his plot.' –Paul Theroux" -Tim Ferriss
"His Message at a High School Commencement 'You guys are programmed to succeed. The hardest thing you’re ever going to do in your life is fail at something, and if you don’t start failing at things, you will not live a full life. You’ll be living a cautious life on a path that you know is pretty much guaranteed to more or less work. That’s not getting the most out of this amazing world we live in. You have to do the hardest thing that you have not been prepared for in this school or any school: You have to be prepared to fail. That’s how you’re going to expand yourself and grow. As you work through that process of failure and learning, you will really deepen into the human being you’re capable of being." -Tim Ferriss
"Lose an hour in the morning, chase it all day.'—a Yiddish saying, author unknown" -Tim Ferriss
"The great majority of that which gives you angst never happens, so you must evict it. Don’t let it live rent-free in your brain." -Tim Ferriss
"What we fear doing most is usually what we most need to do. As" -Tim Ferriss
"People suck at following advice. Even the most effective people in the world are terrible at it. There are two reasons: 1. Most people have an insufficient reason for action. The pain isn’t painful enough. It’s a nice-to-have, not a must-have. There has been no 'Harajuku Moment.' 2. There are no reminders. No consistent tracking = no awareness = no behavioral change. Consistent tracking, even if you have no knowledge of fat-loss or exercise, will often beat advice from world-class trainers." -Tim Ferriss
"Meetings are an addictive, highly self-indulgent activity that corporations and other organizations habitually engage in only because they cannot actually masturbate. —DAVE BARRY, Pulitzer" -Tim Ferriss
"YOU TOOK YOUR SHOT.' Instantly I felt free and in control. I knew from then on that I could have the courage to fail on my own terms. From that moment, I decided that if I was going to succeed or fail, it was going to be up to me. I was changed forever." -Tim Ferriss
"Learn the rules like a pro, so you can break them like an artist. —PABLO PICASSO" -Tim Ferriss
"The disease of our times is that we live on the surface. We’re like the Platte River, a mile wide and an inch deep. I always say, 'If you want to become a billionaire, invent something that will allow people to indulge their own Resistance.' Somebody did invent it. It’s called the Internet. Social media. That wonderland where we can flit from one superficial, jerkoff distraction to another, always remaining on the surface, never" -Tim Ferriss
"I believe that the key to self-sufficiency is breaking free of the mindset that someone, somewhere, owes you something or will come to your rescue." -Tim Ferriss
"If you could have a gigantic billboard anywhere with anything on it, what would it say and why? 'Discipline equals freedom.' Everyone wants freedom. We want to be physically free and mentally free. We want to be financially free and we want more free time. But where does that freedom come from? How do we get it? The answer is the opposite of freedom. The answer is discipline. You want more free time? Follow a more disciplined time-management system. You want financial freedom? Implement long-term financial discipline in your life. Do you want to be physically free to move how you want, and to be free from many health issues caused by poor lifestyle choices? Then you have to have the discipline to eat healthy food and consistently work out. We all want freedom. Discipline is the only way to get it. What is one of the best or most worthwhile investments you’ve ever made? Ever since I have had a home with a garage, I have had a gym in my garage. It is one of the most important factors in allowing me to work out every day regardless of the chaos and mayhem life delivers. The convenience of being able to work out any time, without packing a gym bag, driving, parking, changing, then waiting for equipment . . . The home gym is there for you. No driving. No parking. No little locker to cram your gear into. In your home gym, you never wait for equipment. It is waiting for you. Always. And, perhaps most important: You can listen to whatever music you want, as loud as you want. GET SOME." -Tim Ferriss
"When his company grew and he ran out of time to interview people himself, he had his employees rate new candidates on a 1–10 scale. The only stipulation was they couldn’t choose 7. It immediately dawned on me how many invitations I was receiving that I would rate as a 7—speeches, weddings, coffees, even dates. If I thought something was a 7, there was a good chance I felt obligated to do it. But if I have to decide between a 6 or an 8, it’s a lot easier to quickly determine whether or not I should even consider it." -Tim Ferriss
"think of problems as gold mines. The world’s biggest problems are the world’s biggest business opportunities." -Tim Ferriss
"The immediate answer that comes to mind is ‘humility.’ Because you’ve got to be humble, and you’ve got to be coachable. . . . Later, when I was running training, we would fire a couple leaders from every SEAL Team because they couldn’t lead. And 99.9% of the time, it wasn’t a question of their ability to shoot a weapon, it wasn’t because they weren’t in good physical shape, it wasn’t because they were unsafe. It was almost always a question of their ability to listen, open their mind, and see that, maybe, there’s a better way to do things. That is from a lack of humility. . ." -Tim Ferriss
"If you find yourself in a fair fight, you didn’t plan your mission properly.' –Colonel David Hackworth" -Tim Ferriss
"Busy is a decision.' Here’s why: Of the many, many excuses people use to rationalize why they can’t do something, the excuse 'I am too busy' is not only the most inauthentic, it is also the laziest. I don’t believe in 'too busy.' Like I said, busy is a decision. We do the things we want to do, period. If we say we are too busy, it is shorthand for 'not important enough." -Tim Ferriss
"There is just less competition for bigger goals." -Tim Ferriss
"And if you say you’re not creative, look at how much you’re missing out on just because you’ve told yourself that. I think creativity is one of the greatest gifts that we’re born with that some people don’t cultivate, that they don’t realize it could be applied to literally everything in their lives." -Tim Ferriss
"Things in Excess Become Their Opposite. It is possible to have too much of a good thing. In excess, most endeavors and possessions take on the characteristics of their opposite. Thus: Pacifists become militants. Freedom fighters become tyrants. Blessings become curses. Help becomes hindrance. More becomes less.4 Too much, too many, and too often of what you want becomes what you don’t want." -Tim Ferriss
"Emphasize strengths, don't fix weaknesses." -Tim Ferriss
"All 250 + episodes to date can be found at tim.blog/ podcast and itunes.com/ timferriss Jamie Foxx on Workout Routines, Success Habits, and Untold Hollywood Stories (# 124)—tim.blog/ jamie The Scariest Navy SEAL I’ve Ever Met . . . and What He Taught Me (# 107)—tim.blog/ jocko Arnold Schwarzenegger on Psychological Warfare (and Much More) (# 60)—tim.blog/ arnold Dom D’Agostino on Fasting, Ketosis, and the End of Cancer (# 117)—tim.blog/ dom2 Tony Robbins on Morning Routines, Peak Performance, and Mastering Money (# 37)—tim.blog/ tony How to Design a Life—Debbie Millman (# 214)—tim.blog/ debbie Tony Robbins—On Achievement Versus Fulfillment (# 178)—tim.blog/ tony2 Kevin Rose (# 1)—tim.blog/ kevinrose [If you want to hear how bad a first episode can be, this delivers. Drunkenness didn’t help matters.] Charles Poliquin on Strength Training, Shredding Body Fat, and Increasing Testosterone and Sex Drive (# 91)—tim.blog/ charles Mr. Money Mustache—Living Beautifully on $ 25–27K Per Year (# 221)—tim.blog/ mustache Lessons from Warren Buffett, Bobby Fischer, and Other Outliers (# 219)—tim.blog/ buffett Exploring Smart Drugs, Fasting, and Fat Loss—Dr. Rhonda Patrick (# 237)—tim.blog/ rhonda 5 Morning Rituals That Help Me Win the Day (# 105)—tim.blog/ rituals David Heinemeier Hansson: The Power of Being Outspoken (# 195)—tim.blog/ dhh Lessons from Geniuses, Billionaires, and Tinkerers (# 173)—tim.blog/ chrisyoung The Secrets of Gymnastic Strength Training (# 158)—tim.blog/ gst Becoming the Best Version of You (# 210)—tim.blog/ best The Science of Strength and Simplicity with Pavel Tsatsouline (# 55)—tim.blog/ pavel Tony Robbins (Part 2) on Morning Routines, Peak Performance, and Mastering Money (# 38)—tim.blog/ tony How Seth Godin Manages His Life—Rules, Principles, and Obsessions (# 138)—tim.blog/ seth The Relationship Episode: Sex, Love, Polyamory, Marriage, and More (with Esther Perel) (# 241)—tim.blog/ esther The Quiet Master of Cryptocurrency—Nick Szabo (# 244)—tim.blog/ crypto Joshua Waitzkin (# 2)—tim.blog/ josh The Benevolent Dictator of the Internet, Matt Mullenweg (# 61)—tim.blog/ matt Ricardo Semler—The Seven-Day Weekend and How to Break the Rules (# 229)—tim.blog/ ricardo" -Tim Ferriss
"1. She switched her breakfast to a high-protein meal (at least 30% protein) à la the Slow-Carb Diet. Her favorite: spinach, black beans, and egg whites (one-third of a carton of Eggology liquid egg whites) with cayenne pepper flakes. 2. Three times a week (Monday, Wednesday, Friday), she performed a simple sequence of three exercises prior to breakfast, all of which are illustrated in the next few pages: One set: 20 two-legged glute activation raises from the floor One set: 15 flying dogs, one set each side One set: 50 kettlebell swings (For you: start with a weight that allows you to do 20 perfect repetitions but no more than 30. In other words, start with a weight, no less than 20 pounds, that you can 'grow into." -Tim Ferriss
"True Films On TrueFilms.com, Kevin has reviewed the best documentaries he’s seen over decades. The counterpart book series, True Films 3.0, contains the 200 documentaries he feels you should see before you die, and it is available as a PDF on kk.org. Three docs we both love are The King of Kong, Man on Wire, and A State of Mind." -Tim Ferriss
"To avoid criticism, say nothing, do nothing, be nothing.'—Elbert Hubbard" -Tim Ferriss
"80% of the consequences flow from 20% of the causes" -Tim Ferriss
"No newspapers, magazines, audiobooks, or nonmusic radio. Music is permitted at all times. No news websites whatsoever (cnn.com, drudgereport.com, msn.com,10 etc.). No television at all, except for one hour of pleasure viewing each evening. No reading books, except for this book and one hour of fiction11 pleasure reading prior to bed. No web surfing at the desk unless it is necessary to complete a work task for that day. Necessary means necessary, not nice to have." -Tim Ferriss
"Action may not always bring happiness, but there is no happiness without action. —BENJAMIN DISRAELI, former British Prime Minister" -Tim Ferriss
"I’m not going to worry about losing one friend if I have a hundred, but if I have two friends I’m really going to be worried. I’m not going to worry about losing my job because my one boss is going to fire me, because I have thousands of bosses at newspapers everywhere. One of the ways to not worry about stress is to eliminate it. I don’t worry about my stock picks because I have a diversified portfolio. Diversification works in almost every area of your life to reduce your stress." -Tim Ferriss
"It is far more lucrative and fun to leverage your strengths instead of attempting to fix all the chinks in your armor. The choice is between multiplication of results using strengths or incremental improvement fixing weaknesses that will, at best, become mediocre. Focus on better use of your best weapons instead of constant repair." -Tim Ferriss
"If you want to be tougher mentally, it is simple: Be tougher. Don’t meditate on it.' These words of Jocko’s helped one listener—a drug addict—get sober after many failed attempts. The simple logic struck a chord: 'Being tougher' was, more than anything, a decision to be tougher. It’s possible to immediately 'be tougher,' starting with your next decision. Have trouble saying 'no' to dessert? Be tougher. Make that your starting decision. Feeling winded? Take the stairs anyway. Ditto. It doesn’t matter how small or big you start. If you want to be tougher, be tougher." -Tim Ferriss
"there is always a single 'source': the person who took the first risk on a new initiative. That source maintains a unique relationship with the gestalt of the original idea and has an intuitive knowledge of what the right next step for the initiative is, whereas others who join later to help with the execution often lack that intuitive connection to the founder’s original insight. Many organizational tensions and power struggles often revolve around lack of explicit acknowledgment of who the source of the initiative is." -Tim Ferriss
"Have you outgrown your systems or beliefs? Is it time that you upgraded? Or, on a personal level, as Jerry Colonna, executive coach to some of the biggest tech stars in Silicon Valley, would ask: 'How are you complicit in creating the conditions you say you don’t want?" -Tim Ferriss
"Do your own thinking independently. Be the chess player, not the chess piece.      —RALPH CHARELL" -Tim Ferriss
"The Purpose of Life Is a Life of Purpose.' This is Stan’s answer to 'If you could put a billboard anywhere and write anything on it, what would it say?' It is a quote from Robert Byrne." -Tim Ferriss
"Though you can upgrade your brain domestically, traveling and relocating provides unique conditions that make progress much faster. The different surroundings act as a counterpoint and mirror for your own prejudices, making weaknesses that much easier to fix. I" -Tim Ferriss
"Flavor is, counterintuitively, less than 10% taste and more than 90% smell." -Tim Ferriss
"There are many things of which a wise man might wish to be ignorant.' –Ralph Waldo Emerson" -Tim Ferriss
"Alex Honnold, free solo climbing phenom: The Last of the Mohicans soundtrack Rolf Potts, author of Vagabonding and others: ambitones like The Zen Effect in the key of C for 30 minutes, made by Rolfe Kent, the composer of music for movies like Sideways, Wedding Crashers, and Legally Blonde Matt Mullenweg, lead developer of WordPress, CEO of Automattic: 'Everyday' by A$AP Rocky and 'One Dance' by Drake Amelia Boone, the world’s most successful female obstacle course racer: 'Tonight Tonight' by the Smashing Pumpkins and 'Keep Your Eyes Open' by NEEDTOBREATHE Chris Young, mathematician and experimental chef: Paul Oakenfold’s 'Live at the Rojan in Shanghai,' Pete Tong’s Essential Mix Jason Silva, TV and YouTube philosopher: 'Time' from the Inception soundtrack by Hans Zimmer Chris Sacca: 'Harlem Shake' by Baauer and 'Lift Off' by Jay Z and Kanye West, featuring Beyoncé. 'I can bang through an amazing amount of email with the Harlem Shake going on in the background.' Tim Ferriss: Currently I’m listening to 'Circulation' by Beats Antique and 'Black Out the Sun' by Sevendust, depending on whether I need flow or a jumpstart." -Tim Ferriss
"What we fear doing most is usually what we most need to do. As I have heard said, a person’s success in life can usually be measured by the number of uncomfortable conversations he or she is willing to have. Resolve to do one thing every day that you fear. I" -Tim Ferriss
"In other words, you can spend all day undermining other people, and even if you’re right, who cares? Anybody can talk about why something’s bad. Try doing something good." -Tim Ferriss
"SLOW DANCE Have you ever watched kids On a merry-go-round? Or listened to the rain Slapping on the ground? Ever followed a butterfly’s erratic flight? Or gazed at the sun into the fading night? You better slow down. Don’t dance so fast. Time is short. The music won’t last. Do you run through each day On the fly? When you ask: How are you? Do you hear the reply? When the day is done, do you lie in your bed With the next hundred chores Running through your head? You’d better slow down. Don’t dance so fast. Time is short. The music won’t last. Ever told your child, We’ll do it tomorrow? And in your haste, Not see his sorrow? Ever lost touch, Let a good friendship die Cause you never had time To call and say, 'Hi'? You’d better slow down. Don’t dance so fast. Time is short. The music won’t last. When you run so fast to get somewhere You miss half the fun of getting there. When you worry and hurry through your day, It is like an unopened gift thrown away. Life is not a race. Do take it slower. Hear the music Before the song is over. 85." -Tim Ferriss
"Don’t pay any attention to what they write about you, just measure it in inches.'—Andy Warhol" -Tim Ferriss
"I overhear Bobby Flay say, 'Take risks and you’ll get the payoffs. Learn from your mistakes until you succeed. It’s that simple.' I" -Tim Ferriss
"Creation is a better means of self-expression than possession; it is through creating, not possessing, that life is revealed. —VIDA D. SCUDDER, The Life of the Spirit in the Modern English Poets" -Tim Ferriss
"No problem can be solved from the same level of consciousness that created it.'—Albert Einstein" -Tim Ferriss
"insomnio es un glotón. Se alimenta de cualquier clase de pensamiento, incluso cuando piensas en no pensar. Clifton Fadiman, antiguo director de Simon & Schuster" -Tim Ferriss
"Stop wishing and start doing." -Tim Ferriss
"You don’t need more recipes. You need to learn to cook without them." -Tim Ferriss
"My original intention with The 4-Hour Workweek (4HWW), The 4-Hour Body (4HB), and The 4-Hour Chef (4HC) was to create a trilogy themed after Ben Franklin’s famous quote: 'Early to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy, and wise.' People constantly ask me, 'What would you put in The 4-Hour Workweek if you were to write it again? How would you update it?' Ditto for 4HB and 4HC. Tools of Titans contains most of the answers for all three." -Tim Ferriss
"Calm Is Contagious' This is another of Pavel’s favorite quotes. Here is an elaboration from a speech by Rorke Denver, former Navy SEAL commander: 'A master chief, the senior enlisted rank in the Navy—who was like a god to us—told us he was giving us an invaluable piece of advice that he’d learned from another master chief during the Vietnam War. He said, ‘This is the best thing you’re ever going to learn in SEAL training.’ We were excited to learn what it was, and he told us that when you’re a leader, people are going to mimic your behavior, at a minimum. . . . It’s a guarantee. So here’s the key piece of advice, this is all he said: ‘Calm is contagious.’' *" -Tim Ferriss
"I used to resent obstacles along the path, thinking, ‘If only that hadn’t happened life would be so good.’ Then I suddenly realized, life is the obstacles. There is no underlying path.' Janna Levin TW/IG: @jannalevin" -Tim Ferriss
"Cooking practice can be expensive and impractical. If you have the time, you can practice your tennis serve a thousand times a day for a few dollars. Making a thousand omelets a day? That’s a different story." -Tim Ferriss
"But then I got into Joseph Campbell—The Power of Myth and The Hero with a Thousand Faces. Joseph Campbell was the first person to really open my eyes to [the] compassionate side of life, or of thought. . . . Campbell was the guy who really kind of put it all together for me, and not in a way I could put my finger on. . . . It made you just glad to be alive, [realizing] how vast this world is, and how similar and how different we are.' * Most-gifted or recommended books? 'You’re going to think I’m plugging you, but I probably have recommended The Art of Learning [by Josh Waitzkin, page 577] and The 4-Hour Body, I’m not kidding, more than any other books.' What Would You Say in a College Commencement Speech? 'Well, I would say that if you are searching for status, and if you are doing things because there’s an audience for it, you’re probably barking up the wrong tree. 'I would say, ‘Listen to yourself.’ Follow your bliss, and Joseph Campbell, to bring it back around, said, ‘There is great security in insecurity.’ We are wired and programmed to do what’s safe and what’s sensible. I don’t think that’s the way to go. I think you do things because they are just things you have to do, or because it’s a calling, or because you’re idealistic enough to think that you can make a difference in the world. 'I think you should try to slay dragons. I don’t care how big the opponent is. We read about and admire the people who did things that were basically considered to be impossible. That’s what makes the world a better place to live." -Tim Ferriss
"Goals: Setting and Achieving Them on Schedule, How to Stay Motivated, and Secrets of Closing the Sale by Zig Ziglar: 'Zig is your grandfather and my grandfather. He’s Tony Robbins’s grandfather. None of us would be here if it weren’t for Zig." -Tim Ferriss
"Advice to your 20-year-old self? 'I would say, ‘Write everything down because it’s all very fleeting.’ I would say, ‘Keep a journal,’ which I have but I would have been more meticulous. Then I would say, ‘Don’t bow to the gatekeepers at the head of, in my case, show business, but at the gate of any business or any endeavor.’ Don’t bow to the gatekeepers because I think, in essence, there are no gatekeepers. You are the gatekeeper. . . . 'Don’t waste your time on marketing, just try to get better. . . . 'And also, it’s not about being good; it’s about being great. Because what I find, the older I get, is that a lot of people are good, and a lot of people are smart, and a lot of people are clever. But not a lot of people give you their soul when they perform." -Tim Ferriss
"How has being 'realistic' or 'responsible' kept you from the life you want? 2. How has doing what you 'should' resulted in subpar experiences or regret for not having done something else? 3. Look at what you’re currently doing and ask yourself, 'What would happen if I did the opposite of" -Tim Ferriss
"Judge a man by his questions rather than his answers." -Tim Ferriss
"Ever tried. Ever failed. No matter. Try again. Fail again. Fail better." -Tim Ferriss
"Naval’s Laws The below is Naval’s response to the question 'Are there any quotes you live by or think of often?' These are gold. Take the time necessary to digest them. 'These aren’t all quotes from others. Many are maxims that I’ve carved for myself.' Be present above all else. Desire is suffering (Buddha). Anger is a hot coal that you hold in your hand while waiting to throw it at someone else (Buddhist saying). If you can’t see yourself working with someone for life, don’t work with them for a day. Reading (learning) is the ultimate meta-skill and can be traded for anything else. All the real benefits in life come from compound interest. Earn with your mind, not your time. 99% of all effort is wasted. Total honesty at all times. It’s almost always possible to be honest and positive. Praise specifically, criticize generally (Warren Buffett). Truth is that which has predictive power. Watch every thought. (Always ask, 'Why am I having this thought?') All greatness comes from suffering. Love is given, not received. Enlightenment is the space between your thoughts (Eckhart Tolle). Mathematics is the language of nature. Every moment has to be complete in and of itself. A Few of Naval’s Tweets that are Too Good to Leave Out 'What you choose to work on, and who you choose to work with, are far more important than how hard you work.' 'Free education is abundant, all over the Internet. It’s the desire to learn that’s scarce.' 'If you eat, invest, and think according to what the ‘news’ advocates, you’ll end up nutritionally, financially, and morally bankrupt.' 'We waste our time with short-term thinking and busywork. Warren Buffett spends a year deciding and a day acting. That act lasts decades.' 'The guns aren’t new. The violence isn’t new. The connected cameras are new, and that changes everything.' 'You get paid for being right first, and to be first, you can’t wait for consensus.' 'My one repeated learning in life: ‘There are no adults.’ Everyone’s making it up as they go along. Figure it out yourself, and do it.' 'A busy mind accelerates the passage of subjective time." -Tim Ferriss
"My perfect storm was nothing permanent. But of course it's far from the last storm I'll face. There will be many more. The key is building fires where you can. Warm yourself up as you wait for the tempest to pass. These fires, the routines, habits, relationships, and coping mechanisms you built, help you to look at the rain and see fertilizer instead of a flood. If you want the lushest green of life and you do, the grey is part of the natural cycle. You are not flawed. You're a human. You have gifts to share with the world and when the darkness comes, when you're fighting the demons, just remember. I'm right there fighting with you. You're not alone. The gems I found were forged in the struggle.Never, ever give up." -Tim Ferriss
"But I will say this: the more clear I am about what my goals are, the more easily I can say no." -Tim Ferriss
"I have a good friend, let’s call him Slim Berriss, who’s devised a schedule for himself that combines practical microdosing and pre-planned 1- to 2-day treks into deeper territory. For him, this blend provides a structured approach for increasing everyday well-being, developing empathy, and intensively exploring the 'other.' Here is what it looks like: Microdosing of ibogaine hydrochloride twice weekly, on Mondays and Fridays. The dosage is 4 mg, or roughly 1/200 or less of the full ceremonial dosage at Slim’s bodyweight of 80 kg. He dislikes LSD and finds psilocybin in mushrooms hard to dose accurately. Woe unto he who 'microdoses' and gets hit like a freight train while checking in luggage at an airport (poor Slim). The encapsulated ibogaine was gifted to him to solve this problem. Moderate dosing of psilocybin (2.2 to 3.5 g), as ground mushrooms in chocolate, once every 6 to 8 weeks. His highly individual experience falls somewhere in the 150 to 200 mcg description of LSD by Jim later in this piece. Slim is supervised by an experienced sitter. Higher-dose ayahuasca once every 3 to 6 months for 2 consecutive nights. The effects could be compared (though very different experiences) to 500+ mcg of LSD. Slim is supervised by 1 to 2 experienced sitters in a close-knit group of 4 to 6 people maximum. NOTE: In the 4 weeks prior to these sessions, he does not consume any ibogaine or psilocybin." -Tim Ferriss
"House of Leaves by Mark Danielewski: 'This is a book that you have to hold, because there are parts of it where you need to turn it upside down to read it. There are certain pages where, you are reading it, and it turns in a circle. . . . This is a book that’s an entire sensory experience." -Tim Ferriss
"Avoid compulsively making things worse." -Tim Ferriss
"Our fears are always more numerous than our dangers.'—Seneca the Younger" -Tim Ferriss
"Different is better when it is more effective or more fun. If" -Tim Ferriss
"The next Bill Gates will not build an operating system. The next Larry Page or Sergey Brin won’t make a search engine. And the next Mark Zuckerberg won’t create a social network. If you are copying these guys, you aren’t learning from them.' •" -Tim Ferriss
"As chef Mehdi Chellaoui says, 'I use lemon like I use salt.' Mario Batali would agree: if something is missing, it’s probably acid." -Tim Ferriss
"Follow your intellectual curiosity over whatever is 'hot' right now. If your curiosity ever leads you to a place where society eventually wants to go, you’ll get paid extremely well." -Tim Ferriss
"Wasn’t it Bill Clinton who said that when dealing with anyone who’s upset, he always asks, ‘Has this person slept? Have they eaten? Is somebody else bugging them?’ He goes through this simple checklist. . . . When we’re handling babies and the baby is kicking and crying, we almost never once say, ‘That baby’s out to get me’ or ‘She’s got evil intentions." -Tim Ferriss
"Being busy is a form of laziness—lazy thinking and indiscriminate action. Being overwhelmed is often as unproductive as doing nothing, and is far more unpleasant. Being selective—doing less—is the path of the productive. Focus on the important few and ignore the rest." -Tim Ferriss
"If only I had more money' is the easiest way to postpone the intense self-examination and decision-making necessary to create a life of enjoyment—now and not later." -Tim Ferriss
"Exact numbers aren’t needed to realize that we spend too much time with those who poison us with pessimism, sloth, and low expectations of themselves and the world. It is often the case that you have to fire certain friends or retire from particular social circles to have the life you want. This isn’t being mean; it is being practical. Poisonous people do not deserve your time. To think otherwise is masochistic." -Tim Ferriss
"What makes a river so restful to people is that it doesn’t have any doubt—it is sure to get where it is going, and it doesn’t want to go anywhere else.'—Hal Boyle." -Tim Ferriss
"On Diversification for Stress Management The below came from me asking, 'What advice would you give your 30-year-old self?': 'My 30-year-old self wouldn’t have access to medical marijuana, so I’d have a limited canvas with which to paint. I’ve always made it a top priority since I was a teenager—and had tons of stress-related medical problems—to make that job one: to learn how to not have stress. I would consider myself a world champion at avoiding stress at this point in dozens of different ways. A lot of it is just how you look at the world, but most of it is really the process of diversification. I’m not going to worry about losing one friend if I have a hundred, but if I have two friends I’m really going to be worried. I’m not going to worry about losing my job because my one boss is going to fire me, because I have thousands of bosses at newspapers everywhere. One of the ways to not worry about stress is to eliminate it. I don’t worry about my stock picks because I have a diversified portfolio. Diversification works in almost every area of your life to reduce your stress." -Tim Ferriss
"The concept of lifestyle design as a replacement for multi-staged career planning is sound." -Tim Ferriss
"When you have the best and tastiest ingredients, you can cook very simply and the food will be extraordinary because it tastes like what it is." -Tim Ferriss
"One wrong person in your circle can destroy your whole future." -Tim Ferriss
"What bullshit excuses do you have for not going after whatever it is that you want? Please, write in, tell us on social media why these are real excuses with #bullshit afterwards. Oh my God, man, that’s such a great story." -Tim Ferriss
"I must not fear. Fear is the mind-killer. Fear is the little-death that brings total obliteration. I will face my fear. I will permit it to pass over me and through me. And when it has gone past I will turn the inner eye to see its path. Where the fear has gone there will be nothing. Only I will remain." -Tim Ferriss
"So much of the job is more emotion and ‘heart work’ than it is ‘head work.’ The head comes in after, to look at what the heart has presented and to organize it. But the initial inspiration comes from a different place, and it’s not the head, and it’s not an intellectual activity." -Tim Ferriss
"People are poor judges of importance and inflate minutiae to fill time and feel important." -Tim Ferriss
"Charles Munger, right-hand adviser to Warren Buffett, the richest man on the planet, is known for his unparalleled clear thinking and near-failure-proof track record. How did he refine his thinking to help build a $3 trillion business in Berkshire Hathaway? The answer is 'mental models,' or analytical rules-of-thumb4 pulled from disciplines outside of investing, ranging from physics to evolutionary biology. Eighty to 90 models have helped Charles Munger develop, in Warren Buffett’s words, 'the best 30-second mind in the world. He goes from A to Z in one move. He sees the essence of everything before you even finish the sentence." -Tim Ferriss
"When in doubt or overwhelmed, take a break and 80/20 both business and personal activities and relationships." -Tim Ferriss
"Here’s a statistician joke for your next hot date: Person A: What happens when Bill Gates walks into a bar of 55 people? Person B: I don’t know. What? Person A: The 'average' net worth jumps to more than a billion dollars!" -Tim Ferriss
"If you set your goals ridiculously high and it’s a failure, you will fail above everyone else’s success.' —James Cameron 'If you find yourself in a fair fight, you didn’t plan your mission properly.' —Colonel David Hackworth 'Not my circus. Not my monkeys.' —Polish proverb" -Tim Ferriss
"I used to resent obstacles along the path, thinking, 'If only that hadn’t happened life would be so good.' Then I suddenly realized, life is the obstacles. There is no underlying path. Our role here is to get better at navigating those obstacles. I strive to find calm, measured responses and to see hindrances as a chance to problem-solve." -Tim Ferriss
"Define the worst case, accept it, and do it." -Tim Ferriss
"The true soldier fights not because he hates what is in front of him, but because he loves what is behind him.' –G. K. Chesterton English philosopher known as the 'prince of paradox' 'All happiness depends on a leisurely breakfast.' –John Gunther American journalist, author of Death Be Not Proud 'The acquisition of riches has been for many men, not an end, but a change, of troubles.' –Epicurus Ancient Greek philosopher, founder of the school of Epicureanism 'To handle yourself, use your head; to handle others, use your heart.' –Eleanor Roosevelt Longest-serving First Lady of the United States, diplomat, and activist" -Tim Ferriss
"It’s always the hard part that creates value." -Tim Ferriss
"Herbs? Herbs are from the leaves and stems of plants. Spices, on the other hand, are from the root, bark, and seeds." -Tim Ferriss
"We want to pick big. Infinity is our friend. Infinity is safe. Infinity gives us a place to hide. So, I want to encourage people instead to look for the small. To be on one medium in a place where people can find you. To have one sort of interaction with one tribe, with one group where you don’t have a lot of lifeboats." -Tim Ferriss
"My goal is not to fail fast. My goal is to succeed over the long run. They are not the same thing.' 'To do original work: It’s not necessary to know something nobody else knows. It is necessary to believe something few other people believe.' 'Andy Grove had the answer: For every metric, there should be another ‘paired’ metric that addresses adverse consequences of the first metric.' 'Show me an incumbent bigco failing to adapt to change, I’ll show you top execs paid huge cash compensation for quarterly and annual goals.' 'Every billionaire suffers from the same problem. Nobody around them ever says, ‘Hey, that stupid idea you just had is really stupid.’' '‘Far more money has been lost by investors trying to anticipate corrections, than has been lost in corrections themselves.’—Peter Lynch" -Tim Ferriss
"Failure isn’t always durable. You can go back and you can look at it and go, ‘Oh, that wasn’t a failure. That was a key moment of my development that I needed to take, and I can trust my instinct. I really can’." -Tim Ferriss
"Lifestyle Design is thus not interested in creating an excess of idle time, which is poisonous, but the positive use of free time, defined simply as doing what you want as opposed to what you feel obligated to do." -Tim Ferriss
"What we fear doing most is usually what we most need to do. As I have heard said, a person’s success in life can usually be measured by the number of uncomfortable conversations he or she is willing to have. Resolve to do one thing every day that you fear. I got into this habit by attempting to contact celebrities and famous businesspeople for advice." -Tim Ferriss
"Leonard Cohen is my patron saint. Try 'Dance Me to the End of Love' or 'Famous Blue Raincoat,' or pretty much anything else he’s ever written, including, of course, 'Hallelujah,' his best-known song but really only the tip of the Leonard iceberg! Also: 'Hinach Yafah (You Are Beautiful)' by Idan Raichel. It’s a gorgeous song of longing for the beloved, but really it’s about longing in general." -Tim Ferriss
"Sometimes Cookies Are the Best Medicine For hospice patients at death’s door, big existential conversations aren’t always the needed medicine. One oddly powerful alternative is baking cookies together. 'Just the basic joy of smelling a cookie. It smells freaking great. [And it’s like the snowball.] You’re rewarded for being alive and in the moment. Smelling a cookie is not on behalf of some future state. It’s great in the moment, by itself, on behalf of nothing. And this is another thing back to art. Art for its own sake. Art and music and dance. Part of its poignancy is its purposelessness, and just delighting in a wacky fact of perhaps a meaningless universe and how remarkable that is. One way for all of us to live until we’re actually dead is to prize those little moments." -Tim Ferriss
"Most who avoid quitting their jobs entertain the thought that their course will improve with time or increases in income. This seems valid and is a tempting hallucination when a job is boring or uninspiring instead of pure hell. Pure hell forces action, but anything less can be endured with enough clever rationalization. Do you really think it will improve or is it wishful thinking and an excuse for inaction? If you were confident in improvement, would you really be questioning things so? Generally not. This is fear of the unknown disguised as optimism. Are you better off than you were one year ago, one month ago, or one week ago?" -Tim Ferriss
"An expert is a person who has made all the mistakes that can be made in a very narrow field. —NIELS BOHR, Danish physicist and Nobel Prize winner" -Tim Ferriss
"sometimes having no experience is a huge advantage. Age doesn’t matter; an open mind does." -Tim Ferriss
"on a scale of 1–10, 1 being nothing and 10 being permanently life-changing, my so-called worst-case scenario might have a temporary impact of 3 or 4." -Tim Ferriss
"If you set your goals ridiculously high and it’s a failure, you will fail above everyone else’s success.' —James Cameron" -Tim Ferriss
"The Magic of Goulash 'The trip down the aisle [on a bus or train, during his travels] was where all the stakes were. Because as I’m going down that aisle, I’ve got to look for an empty seat next to somebody who seems interesting. Somebody I can trust, somebody who might be able to trust me. The stakes are high because I know that at the end of that ride, wherever it was going, that person had to invite me to their home. Because I had no money to spend night after night in a hotel.' The clincher question Cal used to get free room and board around Europe as a poor traveler was: 'Can you tell me: How do you make the perfect goulash?' He would purposefully sit down next to grandmas, who would then pour out their souls. After a few minutes of passionate pantomiming, people would come from around the train to help translate, no matter the country. Cal never had to worry about where he was spending the night. 'During [one dinner party a grandma threw in Hungary to feed me goulash,] one of the neighbors says, ‘Have you ever tasted apricot brandy? Because nobody makes apricot brandy like my father. He lives a half an hour away. You’ve got to come to taste the apricot brandy.’ That weekend, we’re tasting apricot brandy, having a great time. Another party starts, another neighbor comes over to me. ‘Have you ever been to Kiskunhalas, the paprika capital of the world? You cannot leave Hungary without visiting Kiskunhalas.’ Now we’re off to Kiskunhalas. I’m telling you, a single question about goulash could get me 6 weeks of lodging and meals, and that’s how I got passed around the world. 10 years. 10 years." -Tim Ferriss
"When I let go of what I am, I become what I might be.' —Lao Tzu" -Tim Ferriss
"What would this look like if it were easy?" -Tim Ferriss
"So I think, every day, it’s something to reflect on and think about ‘How do I become less competitive in order that I can become more successful?" -Tim Ferriss
"Success, however you define it, is achievable if you collect the right field-tested beliefs and habits." -Tim Ferriss
"I can’t give you a surefire formula for success, but I can give you a formula for failure: try to please everybody all the time. —HERBERT BAYARD SWOPE, American editor and journalist; first recipient of the Pulitzer Prize" -Tim Ferriss
"As someone who read exclusively nonfiction for nearly 15 years, I can tell you two things: It’s not productive to read two fact-based books at the same time (this is one), and fiction is better than sleeping pills for putting the happenings of the day behind you." -Tim Ferriss
"Any useful statement about the future should at first seem ridiculous’ by Jim Dator. Also, ‘When it comes to the future, it’s far more important to be imaginative than to be right’ by Alvin Toffler. Both are famous futurists. These quotes remind me that world-changing ideas will seem absurd to most people, and that the most useful work I can be doing is to push the envelope of what is considered possible." -Tim Ferriss
"you should never publicly criticize anyone or anything unless it is a matter of morals or ethics. Anything negative you say could at the very least ruin someone’s day, or worse, break someone’s heart, or simply change someone from being a future ally of yours to someone who will never forget" -Tim Ferriss
"As a builder, as an entrepreneur, how can you create something for someone else if you don’t have even enough glancing familiarity with them to imagine the world through their eyes?" -Tim Ferriss
"I will often write 'GO FIRST' in my morning journal as a daily prompt." -Tim Ferriss
"The easiest way to learn the swing is based on a method developed by Zar Horton: Stand with the kettlebell directly between the middle of your feet. Bend down and do deadlifts (head up," -Tim Ferriss
"everything around you that you call ‘life’ was made up by people that were no smarter than you. And" -Tim Ferriss
"Self-esteem is just the reputation that you have with yourself. You’ll always know." -Tim Ferriss
"If you don’t make mistakes, you’re not working on hard enough problems. And that’s a big mistake." -Tim Ferriss
"Being busy is a form of laziness—lazy thinking and indiscriminate action. Being busy is most often used as a guise for avoiding the few critically important but uncomfortable actions." -Tim Ferriss
"For a long time, I’ve known that the key to getting started down the path of being remarkable in anything is to simply act with the intention of being remarkable. 'If I want a better-than-average career, I can’t simply ‘go with the flow’ and get it. Most people do just that: they wish for an outcome but make no intention-driven actions toward that outcome. If they would just do something most people would find that they get some version of the outcome they’re looking for. That’s been my secret. Stop wishing and start doing. 'Yet" -Tim Ferriss
"Many a false step was made by standing still.' –Fortune cookie" -Tim Ferriss
"I not only use all the brains that I have, but all that I can borrow.      —WOODROW WILSON" -Tim Ferriss
"The future is already here—it’s just unevenly distributed.'—William Gibson" -Tim Ferriss
"Work will work when nothing else will work." -Tim Ferriss
"Believe it or not, it is not only possible to accomplish more by doing less, it is mandatory. Enter the world of elimination." -Tim Ferriss
"By working faithfully eight hours a day, you may eventually get to be a boss and work twelve hours a day. —ROBERT FROST," -Tim Ferriss
"Hard feelings pass. Don’t suffer fools or you’ll become one." -Tim Ferriss
"the goal is to connect with your own self, your own soul." -Tim Ferriss
"No one is qualified to tell you how you experience the world.' Vlad Zamfir" -Tim Ferriss
"Doing less meaningless work, so that you can focus on things of greater personal importance, is NOT laziness. This is hard for most to accept, because our culture tends to reward personal sacrifice instead of personal productivity." -Tim Ferriss
"People are nicer than they look, but you have to go first. This made me think of a line from fictional character Raylan Givens in the TV series Justified: 'If you run into an asshole in the morning, you ran into an asshole. If you run into assholes all day, you’re the asshole.' I will often write 'GO FIRST' in my morning journal as a daily prompt." -Tim Ferriss
"Embrace uncertainty, groundlessness, and fear as the place where you’ll really learn and grow." -Tim Ferriss
"A hypocrite is a person who—but who isn’t? —DON MARQUIS I" -Tim Ferriss
"The commonsense rules of the 'real world' are a fragile collection of socially reinforced illusions." -Tim Ferriss
"Usually, what we most fear doing is what we most need to do. That phone call, that conversation, whatever the action might be—it is fear of unknown outcomes that prevents us from doing what we need to do. Define the worst case, accept it, and do it. I’ll repeat something you might consider tattooing on your forehead: What we fear doing most is usually what we most need to do. As I have heard said, a person’s success in life can usually be measured by the number of uncomfortable conversations he or she is willing to have." -Tim Ferriss
"If you are insecure, guess what? The rest of the world is, too. Do not overestimate the competition and underestimate yourself. You are better than you think. Unreasonable and unrealistic goals are easier to achieve for yet another reason." -Tim Ferriss
"This is a story about a tiger named Mohini that was in captivity in a zoo, who was rescued from an animal sanctuary. Mohini had been confined to a 10-by-10-foot cage with a concrete floor for 5 or 10 years. They finally released her into this big pasture: With excitement and anticipation, they released Mohini into her new and expensive environment, but it was too late. The tiger immediately sought refuge in a corner of the compound, where she lived for the remainder of her life. She paced and paced in that corner until an area 10-by-10 feet was worn bare of grass. . . . Perhaps the biggest tragedy in our lives is that freedom is possible, yet we can pass our years trapped in the same old patterns." -Tim Ferriss
"Realistic goals, goals restricted to the average ambition level, are uninspiring and will only fuel you through the first or second problem, at which point you throw in the towel. If the potential payoff is mediocre or average, so is your effort." -Tim Ferriss
"Whenever you find yourself on the side of the majority, it is time to pause and reflect.'—Mark Twain" -Tim Ferriss
"Named must your fear be before banish it you can. —YODA, from Star Wars:" -Tim Ferriss
"Thoreau writes, ‘The really efficient laborer will be found not to crowd his day with work, but will saunter to his task surrounded by a wide halo of ease and leisure. There will be a wide margin for relaxation to his day. He is only earnest to secure the kernels of time, and does not exaggerate the value of the husk.’ Think of what a beautiful metaphor this is for not mistaking the husk—the outer accoutrements of productivity like busyness, or a full calendar, or a clever auto-responder—not mistaking those for the kernel, the core and substance of the actual work produced. And he then says, ‘Those who work much, do not work hard.’ I love that.' 'Ours is a culture where we wear our ability to get by on very little sleep as a kind of badge of honor that symbolizes work ethic, or toughness, or some other virtue—but really, it’s a total profound failure of priorities and of self-respect." -Tim Ferriss
"Oftentimes, in order to do the big things, you have to let the small bad things happen." -Tim Ferriss
"There is not enough time to do all the nothing we want to do. —BILL WATTERSON," -Tim Ferriss
"I’m not the strongest. I’m not the fastest. But I’m really good at suffering." -Tim Ferriss
"even. By the time things were done, I was exhausted and depressed and just really, really unhappy. We all were. But it didn’t have to be that way. That experience taught me to take agency in my own professional narratives, and that endings don’t have to be failures, especially when you choose to end a project or shut down a business. Shortly after the restaurant closed, I started a food market as a small side project, and it ended up being wildly successful. I had more press and customers than I could handle. I had investors clamoring to get in on the action. But all I wanted to do was write. I didn’t want to run a food market, and since my name was all over it, I didn’t want to hand it off to anyone else, either. So I chose to close the market on my own terms, and I made sure that everyone knew it. It was such a positive contrast to the harsh experience of closing the restaurant. I’ve learned to envision the ideal end to any project before I begin it now—even the best gigs don’t last forever. Nor should they." -Tim Ferriss
"can’t give you a surefire formula for success, but I can give you a formula for failure: try to please everybody all the time." -Tim Ferriss
"Before spending time on a stress-inducing question or problem, consider this: If you can't define it or act upon it, forget it." -Tim Ferriss
"Morning pages are, as author Julia Cameron puts it, 'spiritual windshield wipers.' It’s the most cost-effective therapy I’ve ever found. To quote her further, from page viii: 'Once we get those muddy, maddening, confusing thoughts [nebulous worries, jitters, and preoccupations] on the page, we face our day with clearer eyes.' Please reread the above quote. It may be the most important aspect of trapping thought on paper (i.e., writing) you’ll ever encounter. Even if you consider yourself a terrible writer, writing can be viewed as a tool. There are huge benefits to writing, even if no one—yourself included—ever reads what you write. In other words, the process matters more than the product." -Tim Ferriss
"Serving the customer ('customer service') is not becoming a personal concierge and catering to their every whim and want. Customer service is providing an excellent product at an acceptable price and solving legitimate problems (lost packages, replacements, refunds, etc.) in the fastest manner possible. That’s it." -Tim Ferriss
"most cold calls didn’t get to the intended person for one reason: gatekeepers. If I simply made all my calls from 8:00–8:30 A.M. and 6:00–6:30 P.M., for a total of one hour, I was able to avoid secretaries and book more than twice as many meetings" -Tim Ferriss
"love, be loved, and never stop learning—" -Tim Ferriss
"Proteins *Egg whites with 1–2 whole eggs for flavor (or, if organic, 2–5 whole eggs, including yolks) *Chicken breast or thigh *Beef (preferably grass-fed) *Fish Pork Legumes *Lentils (also called 'dal' or 'daal') *Black beans Pinto beans Red beans Soybeans Vegetables *Spinach *Mixed vegetables (including broccoli, cauliflower, or any other cruciferous vegetables) *Sauerkraut, kimchee (full explanation of these later in 'Damage Control') Asparagus Peas Broccoli Green beans" -Tim Ferriss
"Think of them as insurance against the weaknesses of human nature—your weaknesses, my weaknesses, our weaknesses: 1. Make it conscious. 2. Make it a game. 3. Make it competitive. 4. Make it small and temporary." -Tim Ferriss
"Related: Money doesn’t change you; it reveals who you are when you no longer have to be nice" -Tim Ferriss
"The best defense is a good offense. —DAN GABLE, Olympic gold medalist in wrestling" -Tim Ferriss
"Anyone who lives within their means suffers from a lack of imagination." -Tim Ferriss
"Great men have almost always shown themselves as ready to obey as they afterwards proved able to command.' —Lord Mahon If you want great mentors, you have to become a great mentee. If you want to lead, you have to first learn to follow." -Tim Ferriss
"People say that what we’re all seeking is a meaning for life. I don’t think that’s what we’re really seeking. I think that what we’re seeking is an experience of being alive.' –Joseph Campbell" -Tim Ferriss
"18. Notice how I take 'you' out of the sentence to avoid finger-pointing, even though it’s implicit. 'Normally, you make priorities clear' sounds like a backhanded insult. If this is a significant other, you can skip this formality, but never use 'you always do X,' which is just a fight starter." -Tim Ferriss
"I’ve even been known to go to bed while my guests are still partying." -Tim Ferriss
"A Lonely Place Is an Unmotivated Place" -Tim Ferriss
"stick to what excites you no matter what people say. It’s your life, live it the way you know is right for you." -Tim Ferriss
"we would always think: ‘Okay, if we do X today, what does that result in tomorrow, a year from now, ten years from now?’ The" -Tim Ferriss
"• Must-watch documentary The Gatekeepers (2012)" -Tim Ferriss
"My billboard would say this: 'Busy is a decision.' Here’s why: Of the many, many excuses people use to rationalize why they can’t do something, the excuse 'I am too busy' is not only the most inauthentic, it is also the laziest. I don’t believe in 'too busy.' Like I said, busy is a decision. We do the things we want to do, period. If we say we are too busy, it is shorthand for 'not important enough." -Tim Ferriss
"Never go to sleep without a request to your subconscious.'—Thomas Edison" -Tim Ferriss
"Losers react, leaders anticipate." -Tim Ferriss
"Ordinarily he was insane, but he had lucid moments when he was merely stupid. —HEINRICH HEINE," -Tim Ferriss
"Not Dead, Can’t Quit." -Tim Ferriss
"These individuals have riches just as we say that we ‘have a fever,’ when really the fever has us.' –Seneca" -Tim Ferriss
"The word cellulite, for example, first appeared in the April 15, 1968, issue of Vogue magazine, and this invented disease soon had a believer base worldwide: Vogue began to focus on the body as much as on the clothes, in part because there was little they could dictate with the anarchic styles.… In a stunning move, an entire replacement culture was developed by naming a 'problem' where it had scarcely existed before, centering it on the women’s natural state, and elevating it to the existential female dilemma… . The number of diet- related articles rose 70 percent from 1968 to 1972." -Tim Ferriss
"One of the world’s great investors once said to me, 'Tom, what do you consider the number-one failing of CEOs?' After I hemmed and hawed, he said, 'They don’t read enough." -Tim Ferriss
"The question you should be asking isn’t, 'What do I want?' or 'What are my goals?' but 'What would excite me?" -Tim Ferriss
"The difference between winning and losing is most often not quitting." -Tim Ferriss
"don’t label a lot of things good/bad. [Instead, I ask] can I evolve from this? What do I want now?" -Tim Ferriss
"BLAMING IDIOTS FOR interruptions is like blaming clowns for scaring children—they can’t help it. It’s their nature. Then again, I had (who am I kidding—and have), on occasion, been known to create interruptions out of thin air. If you’re anything like me, that makes us both occasional idiots. Learn to recognize and fight the interruption impulse. This is infinitely easier when you have a set of rules, responses, and routines to follow." -Tim Ferriss
"«La visión consiste en entregar la responsabilidad a los trabajadores, darles toda la información sobre lo que ocurre para que puedan hacer más de lo que han hecho hasta el momento.» BILL GATES," -Tim Ferriss
"Work wherever and whenever you want, but get your work done." -Tim Ferriss
"Once we get those muddy, maddening, confusing thoughts [nebulous worries, jitters, and preoccupations] on the page, we face our day with clearer eyes." -Tim Ferriss
"The superheroes you have in your mind (idols, icons, elite athletes, billionaires, etc.) are nearly all walking flaws who’ve maximized one or two strengths. Humans are imperfect creatures. You don’t 'succeed' because you have no weaknesses; you succeed because you find your unique strengths and focus on developing habits around them. . . ." -Tim Ferriss
"Excitement is the more practical synonym for happiness, and it is precisely what you should strive to chase. It is the cure-all. When people suggest you follow your 'passion' or your 'bliss,' I propose that they are, in fact, referring to the same singular concept: excitement. This brings us full circle. The question you should be asking isn’t, 'What do I want?' or 'What are my goals?' but 'What would excite me?" -Tim Ferriss
"Researchers use alloxan in lab rats to induce diabetes. That’s right—it’s used to produce diabetes. This is bad news if you eat anything white or 'enriched." -Tim Ferriss
"just-in-time' information instead of 'just-in-case' information." -Tim Ferriss
"Your body is almost always within your control. This is rare in life, perhaps unique. Simply focusing on some measurable element of you physical nature can prevent you from becoming a 'Dow Joneser,' someone whose self-worth is dependent on things largely outside of their control. Job not going well? Company having issues? Some idiot making life difficult? If you add ten laps to your swimming or if you cut five seconds off your best mile time, it can still be a great week. Controlling your body puts you in life's driver's seat. p467" -Tim Ferriss
"Tim’s TED Talk, 'Inside the Mind of a Master Procrastinator," -Tim Ferriss
"Dreamlining is so named because it applies timelines to what most would consider dreams." -Tim Ferriss
"Getting fired, despite sometimes coming as a surprise and leaving you scrambling to recover, is often a godsend. Most people aren’t lucky enough to get fired and die a slow spiritual death over 30-40 years of tolerating the mediocre." -Tim Ferriss
"As I detailed in my TED Talk, I think we all have two main characters in our heads: a rational decision-maker (the adult in your head) and an instant gratification monkey (the child in your head who doesn’t care about consequences and just wants to maximize the ease and pleasure of the current moment). For me, these two are in a constant battle, and the monkey usually wins. But I’ve found that if I turn life into a yin-yang situation—e.g., 'work till 6 today, then no work till tomorrow'—it’s much easier to control the monkey in the work period. Knowing he has something fun to look forward to later makes him much more likely to cooperate. In my old system, the monkey was in a constant state of rebellion against a system that never really gave him any dedicated time." -Tim Ferriss
"The key to that satisfaction is to reach the nirvana in which love of practice for its own sake (intrinsic) replaces the original goal (extrinsic) as our grail. The antithesis of mastery is the pursuit of quick fixes." -Tim Ferriss
"I have had so many spectacular failures, but looking back, I can see how each of them led me a little closer to doing what I actually wanted to do. Years before I was ready to write a book of my own, I bungled two opportunities to co-write cookbooks with other people. These mistakes haunted me, and I was sure I’d never get to write another book. But I waited, and I persisted, and after 17 years I wrote the book I’d always dreamt of." -Tim Ferriss
"Many a false step was made by standing still. —FORTUNE COOKIE" -Tim Ferriss
"It is possible to know all there is to know about a subject—medicine, for example—but if you don’t have M.D. at the end of your name, few will listen. The M.D. is what I term a 'credibility indicator.' The so-called expert with the most credibility indicators, whether acronyms or affiliations, is often the most successful in the marketplace, even if other candidates have more in-depth knowledge. This is a matter of superior positioning, not deception." -Tim Ferriss
"Geld kann seinen praktischen Wert vervielfachen, abhängig davon, wie viele 'Ws' Sie in Ihrem Leben selbst kontrollieren:  Sie tun,  Sie es tun,  Sie es tun und mit  Sie es tun. Ich nenne das den ." -Tim Ferriss
"Dealing with the temporary frustration of not making progress is an integral part of the path towards excellence. In fact, it is essential and something that every single elite athlete has had to learn to deal with. If the pursuit of excellence was easy, everyone would do it. In fact, this impatience in dealing with frustration is the primary reason that most people fail to achieve their goals. Unreasonable expectations timewise, resulting in unnecessary frustration, due to a perceived feeling of failure. Achieving the extraordinary is not a linear process. The secret is to show up, do the work, and go home." -Tim Ferriss
"What would this look like if it were easy? 'This' could be anything. That morning, it was answering a laundry list of big questions. What would this look like if it were easy? is such a lovely and deceptively leveraged question. It’s easy to convince yourself that things need to be hard, that if you’re not redlining, you’re not trying hard enough. This leads us to look for paths of most resistance, often creating unnecessary hardship in the process." -Tim Ferriss
"Someday' is a disease that will take your dreams to the grave with you." -Tim Ferriss
"Aristotle had it right, but he was missing a number: 'We are what we do repeatedly." -Tim Ferriss
"To find the right things, we’ll need to go to the garden." -Tim Ferriss
"If you have a strong informed opinion, don’t keep it to yourself. Try to help people and make the world a better place. If you strive to do anything remotely interesting, just expect a small percentage of the population to always find a way to take it personally. F*ck ’em. There are no statues erected to critics." -Tim Ferriss
"use fat, not water, to counter hotness. Capsaicin is fat-soluble." -Tim Ferriss
"Work is not just an activity that generates funds and creates desire: It’s the vagabonding gestation period, wherein you earn your integrity, start making plans, and get your proverbial act together. Work is a time to dream about travel and write notes to yourself, but it’s also the time tie up your loose ends. Work is when you confront the problems you might otherwise be tempted to run away from. Work is how you settle your financial and emotional debts—so that your travels are not an escape from your real life, but a discovery of your real life." -Tim Ferriss
"Here are my 11 favorite poems to read when I am feeling depressed (11 is the master power number): 'The Fish' by Elizabeth Bishop 'Leaving One' by Ralph Angel 'A Cat in an Empty Apartment' by Wisława Szymborska 'Apples' by Deborah Digges 'Michiko Nogami (1946–1982)' by Jack Gilbert 'Eating Alone' by Li-Young Lee 'The Potter' by Peter Levitt 'Black Dog, Red Dog' by Stephen Dobyns 'The Word' by Mark Cox 'Death' by Maurycy Szymel 'This' by Czeslaw Milosz" -Tim Ferriss
"I eventually learned to cook by focusing on two principles. Both of them apply to all learning and will be your constant companions throughout this book: failure points and the margin of safety." -Tim Ferriss
"In the world of ideas, to name something is to own it. If you can name an issue, you can own the issue.' —Thomas L. Friedman" -Tim Ferriss
"What advice would you give to a smart, driven college student about to enter the 'real world'? What advice should they ignore? Nobody really knows what the world and the job market will look like in 2040, hence nobody knows what to teach young people today. Consequently, it is likely that most of what you currently learn at school will be irrelevant by the time you are 40. So what should you focus on? My best advice is to focus on personal resilience and emotional intelligence. Traditionally, life has been divided into two main parts: a period of learning followed by a period of working. In the first part of life you built a stable identity and acquired personal and professional skills; in the second part of life you relied on your identity and skills to navigate the world, earn a living, and contribute to society. By 2040, this traditional model will become obsolete, and the only way for humans to stay in the game will be to keep learning throughout their lives and to reinvent themselves again and again. The world of 2040 will be a very different world from today, and an extremely hectic world. The pace of change is likely to accelerate even further. So people will need the ability to learn all the time and to reinvent themselves repeatedly—even at age 60." -Tim Ferriss
"TF: Decide beforehand—and not reactively when emotions run high—what types of findings are worth acting upon or ignoring, and what your 'if/then' actions will be" -Tim Ferriss
"Peter stretches during his morning shower: 'It’s mostly my lower body, and then I’ll go through a breathing exercise as well, and [an] affirmational mantra. . . . [The breathing exercise] is an accelerated deep breathing just to oxygenate and stretch my lungs. There are two elements that tie very much to human longevity. It’s strange. . . . One is those people who floss and, second, those people who have a higher VO2 max." -Tim Ferriss
"I do want to live a brave life. I do want to live in the arena. And if you’re going to live in the arena, the only guarantee is you will get your ass kicked. . . . Daring greatly is being vulnerable. So when you ask yourself, ‘Did I dare greatly today?’ The big question I ask is, ‘When I had the opportunity, did I choose courage over comfort?" -Tim Ferriss
"a tolerable and comfortable existence doing something unfulfilling." -Tim Ferriss
"Every day, I eat a bowl of veggie soup, drink veggie juice, and eat pâté made out of the post-juicing pulp mixed with garlic, lemon juice, kale, spinach, and avocado. I serve it on bananas and other fruits so it looks like sushi. But my favorite concoction, which I created three years ago, is a medley of cabbage, onion, avocado, and pear. It’s incredibly delicious, extremely healthy, and fast to prepare. This dish also gave me a deep insight about eating: there was no way to make food better than this. I felt pride and a surge of energy, realizing that I actually ate the best in the world." -Tim Ferriss
"usar el sufrimiento para encontrar claridad. Si se analiza el sufrimiento en lugar de ignorarlo," -Tim Ferriss
"Lo cierto es que he usado esta estrategia más para ayudarme a huir de malas inversiones que para detectar las buenas." -Tim Ferriss
"Most breakthroughs in performance (and appearance) enhancement start with animals and go through the following adoption curve: Racehorses → AIDS patients (because of muscle wasting) and bodybuilders → elite athletes → rich people → the rest of us The last jump from the rich to the general public can take 10–20 years, if it happens at all. It often doesn’t. I" -Tim Ferriss
"La NutriBullet, una pequeña batidora de vaso extraíble que él regala con frecuencia. Bate, bebe y enjuaga." -Tim Ferriss
"When you’re creative, you render competition obsolete, because there is only one you, and no one can do things exactly the way you do. Never worry about the competition. When you’re creative, you can, in fact, cheer others on with the full knowledge that their success will undoubtedly be your own." -Tim Ferriss
"The Director’s Chair is with Francis Ford Coppola (The Godfather, Apocalypse Now, etc.), and Robert refers later to this quote from Francis: 'Failure is not necessarily durable. Remember that the things that they fire you for when you are young are the same things that they give lifetime achievement awards for when you’re old.' ROBERT: 'Even if I didn’t sell Mariachi, I would have learned so much by doing that project. That was the idea—I’m there to learn. I’m not there to win; I’m there to learn, because then I’ll win, eventually. . . . 'You’ve got to be able to look at your failures and know that there’s a key to success in every failure. If you look through the ashes long enough, you’ll find something. I’ll give you one. Quentin [Tarantino] asked me, ‘Do you want to do one of these short films called Four Rooms [where each director can create the film of their choosing, but it has to be limited to a single hotel room, and include New Year’s Eve and a bellhop]?’ and my hand went up right away, instinctively. . . . 'The movie bombed. In the ashes of that failure, I can find at least two keys of success. On the set when I was doing it, I had cast Antonio Banderas as the dad and had this cool little Mexican as his son. They looked really close together. Then I found the best actress I could find, this little half-Asian girl. She was amazing. I needed an Asian mom. I really wanted them to look like a family. It’s New Year’s Eve, because [it] was dictated by the script, so they’re all dressed in tuxedos. I was looking at Antonio and his Asian wife and thinking, ‘Wow, they look like this really cool, international spy couple. What if they were spies, and these two little kids, who can barely tie their shoes, didn’t know they were spies?’ I thought of that on the set of Four Rooms. There are four of those [Spy Kids movies] now and a TV series coming. 'So that’s one. The other one was, after [Four Rooms] failed, I thought, ‘I still love short films.’ Anthologies never work. We shouldn’t have had four stories; it should have been three stories because that’s probably three acts, and it should just be the same director instead of different directors because we didn’t know what each person was doing. I’m going to try it again. Why on earth would I try it again, if I knew they didn’t work? Because you figured something out when you’re doing it the first time, and [the second attempt] was Sin City.' TIM: 'Amazing." -Tim Ferriss
"No idea is so big that you can’t take the first step. If the first step seems too hard, make it simpler. And don’t worry again if the idea is bad. This is all practice." -Tim Ferriss
"Derek wrote a book called Reasons and Persons, which Will considers one of the most important books written in the 20th century." -Tim Ferriss
"Te convertirás en algo raro siempre y cuando reúnas dos o más «bienes preciosos» y nadie más tenga esa combinación…" -Tim Ferriss
"Even today, I still benefit from that because I don’t merge and bring things together and see everything as one big problem. I" -Tim Ferriss
"I have been going to the gym 5x/week, 2 hours on the treadmill plus a one hour spin class 2x a week.… I have been doing this for almost three months." -Tim Ferriss
"Making effective decisions—and learning effectively—requires massive elimination and the removal of options." -Tim Ferriss
"If you’re in a dangerous place, call this number: (800) 273-8255. I didn’t have it, and I wish I had. It’s the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline. They also have live chat at suicidepreventionlifeline.org. It’s available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, in both English and Spanish." -Tim Ferriss
"never forget that underneath all the math and the MBA bullshit talk, we are all still emotionally driven human" -Tim Ferriss
"What would you do if there were no way you could fail? If you were 10 times smarter than the rest of the world? Create two timelines—6 months and 12 months—and list up to five things you dream of having (including, but not limited to, material wants: house, car, clothing, etc.), being (be a great cook, be fluent in Chinese, etc.), and doing (visiting Thailand, tracing your roots overseas, racing ostriches, etc.) in that order. If you have difficulty identifying what you want in some categories, as most will, consider what you hate or fear in each and write down the opposite. Do not limit yourself, and do not concern yourself with how these things will be accomplished. For now, it’s unimportant. This is an exercise in reversing repression. Be sure not to judge or fool yourself. If you really want a Ferrari, don’t put down solving world hunger out of guilt." -Tim Ferriss
"There are 47,000 products in the average U.S. grocery store, but only a handful of them won’t make you fat." -Tim Ferriss
"«Adelantar esta tarea ¿convertiría las demás en triviales o más fáciles de despachar después?». Dicho de otra manera: «¿Cuál de estas cosas, en caso de estar hecha, facilitaría las demás o las convertiría en irrelevantes?»." -Tim Ferriss
"He is now the CEO of ChefSteps, based above Pike Place Market in Seattle, Washington." -Tim Ferriss
"Aprende de los grandes, no de la competencia" -Tim Ferriss
"Premack [a motivational system where a more-preferred activity can be used to reinforce a less-preferred activity] or a rewards system, but with" -Tim Ferriss
"The fairest rules are those to which everyone would agree if they did not know how much power they would have.'—John Rawls" -Tim Ferriss
"2. Loving-Kindness and the Happiest Day in 7 Years" -Tim Ferriss
"Energy can neither be created nor destroyed. It can only change forms. The" -Tim Ferriss
"Tony hace de nueve a diez minutos de lo que algunos considerarían meditación. Para" -Tim Ferriss
"Feel free to lift together, but fail alone." -Tim Ferriss
"no puedes medirlo, no puedes mejorarlo." -Tim Ferriss
"This book is for anyone who is sick of the deferred-life plan and wants to live life large instead of postpone it." -Tim Ferriss
"Perfection is not when there is no more to add, but no more to take away." -Tim Ferriss
"Too often, aspiring artists put pressure on themselves to make their creative work their only source of income. In my experience, it’s a road to misery. If art is your sole source of income, then there’s unrelenting pressure on that art, and mercenary pressure is the enemy of the creative elves inside you trying to get the work done. Having another stream of income drains the pressure on your creative engine. If nothing comes of your art, you still have an ironclad plan to support yourself. As a result, your creative soul feels lighter and free to do its best work. I’m a personal practitioner of this: Even after three books and a hefty movie deal, I still tutor kids and help them with their college applications. My friends can’t understand it, but it’s the only way I know how to write without feeling like it’s a matter of life and death." -Tim Ferriss
"Others include 'Be expensive' (see Marc Andreessen, page 170), 'Expect disaster' (see Tony Robbins, page 210), and 'Own as little as possible' (see Jason Nemer, page 46, and Kevin Kelly, page 470)." -Tim Ferriss
"clásico en marketing, que está orientado a las marcas: «¿Cómo hago que la gente prefiera mi marca?». Olvídate de la marca." -Tim Ferriss
"Of the many, many excuses people use to rationalize why they can’t do something, the excuse 'I am too busy' is not only the most inauthentic, it is also the laziest. I" -Tim Ferriss
"adopta el hábito más importante de quienes destacan y disfrutan con ello: actuar." -Tim Ferriss
"The biggest mistake you can make is to accept the norms of your time." -Tim Ferriss
"What is the worst advice you see or hear given in your trade or area of expertise? '‘ Follow your dreams.’ It’s impossible to do without self-knowledge, which takes years. You discover your ‘dream’ (or sense of purpose) in the very act of walking the path, which is guided by equal parts choice and chance." -Tim Ferriss
"#1—Make Your Bed (<3 minutes)" -Tim Ferriss
"Tanto Both Prüvit como Kegenix se basan en una patente de BHB + MCT desarrollada por el laboratorio de Dom que es propiedad de su universidad." -Tim Ferriss
"What is the book (or books) you’ve given most as a gift, and why? Or what are one to three books that have greatly influenced your life? When I give a book, I always try to find something that I loved, and most important, speaks to the person’s dreams, yearnings, or challenges they are facing. For friends who have faced or are facing cancer, I often give them The Emperor of All Maladies: A Biography of Cancer by Siddhartha Mukherjee, because this beautifully written book weaves together science and story so elegantly, and helped me understand cancer—the history, causes, and innovative treatment—when my son had cancer. For new cooks I give Mark Bittman’s How to Cook Everything because it delivers exactly what it promises! For New York City geeks—and I know a lot of them—I gave Nonstop Metropolis by Rebecca Solnit. For a great novel that I have read three times, Anna Karenina by Leo Tolstoy. For young women, I get The Second Sex by Simone de Beauvoir, which I read when I was studying in Paris. 'One is not born, but rather becomes, a woman.' And for those who struggle with productivity and taking control of their lives, The 4-Hour Workweek, of course!" -Tim Ferriss
"Somos los que simulamos ser'.»" -Tim Ferriss
"Ninety-nine percent of people in the world are convinced they are incapable of achieving great things, so they aim for the mediocre. The level of competition is thus fiercest for 'realistic' goals, paradoxically making them the most time-and energy-consuming." -Tim Ferriss
"There are many things of which a wise man might wish to be ignorant. —RALPH WALDO EMERSON (1803–1882)" -Tim Ferriss
"Policosanol: 20–25 mg Alpha-lipoic acid: 100–300 mg (I take 300 mg with each meal, but some people experience acid reflux symptoms with more than 100 mg) Green tea flavanols (decaffeinated with at least 325 mg EGCG): 325 mg Garlic extract: 200 mg" -Tim Ferriss
"«Todo lo comúnmente aceptado como cierto es falso.» OSCAR WILDE, La importancia de llamarse Ernesto" -Tim Ferriss
"Marie Kondo method: 'Discard [say no to] everything that does not spark joy.' This includes personal obligations. I’m working" -Tim Ferriss
"Changing on the Job." -Tim Ferriss
"the decision to invest in a startup comes after following a process that is heavily weighted towards EQ (emotional quotient). This process starts with exploring the idea emotionally. Should it pass that hurdle, I then do traditional due diligence, using objective data to validate the entrepreneurs’ assumptions around the quantifiable aspects of the business." -Tim Ferriss
"While in Kolkata, India, for this book, I stayed at the iconic Oberoi Grand. The concierge explained to me the hotel’s hiring philosophy: 'You can’t bend mature bamboo. But if you get it as a young shoot, you can bend it, mold it. We hire them between the ages of 18 and 21 so we can mold them.' The concierge was one of only 15 double golden key (Clef d’Or) concierges in India, and he knew that sometimes having no experience is a huge advantage. Age doesn’t matter; an open mind does." -Tim Ferriss
"A qué problema te enfrentas a diario que aún no ha sido resuelto?» o «Dime un negocio fantástico que aún no haya sido creado por nadie»." -Tim Ferriss
"I’ve scheduled deloading phases in a few ways: roughly 8 a.m. to 9 a.m. daily for journaling, tea routines, etc.; 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. every Wednesday for creative output (i.e., writing, interviewing for the podcast); and 'screen-free Saturdays,' when I use no laptops and only use my phone for maps and coordinating with friends via text (no apps). Of course, I still use 'mini-retirements' à la The 4-Hour Workweek a few times a year." -Tim Ferriss
"Not all taste buds are located on the tongue. Some are found on the roof of the mouth and in the throat.… Taste receptors are also found in the lining of the intestine, suggesting that our concept of the sense of taste should include these chemical-sensing systems." -Tim Ferriss
"He recomendado el artículo «1,000 True Fans» de Kevin Kelly literalmente a millones de personas." -Tim Ferriss
"You don’t 'succeed' because you have no weaknesses; you succeed because you find your unique strengths and focus on developing habits around them." -Tim Ferriss
"If you would not be forgotten as soon as you are dead and rotten, either write things worth reading, or do things worth writing." -Tim Ferriss
"Meetings should only be held to make decisions about a predefined situation, not to define the problem." -Tim Ferriss
"He explained that he had spent more than 30 years with people he didn’t like to buy things he didn’t need. Life had become a succession of trophy wives—he was on lucky number three—expensive cars, and other empty bragging rights. Mark was one of the living dead. This is exactly where we don’t want to end up." -Tim Ferriss
"For People Starting Out—Say 'Yes' When Derek was 18, he was living in Boston, attending the Berklee College of Music. 'I’m in this band where the bass player, one day in rehearsal, says, ‘Hey man, my agent just offered me this gig—it’s like $ 75 to play at a pig show in Vermont.’ He rolls his eyes, and he says, ‘I’m not gonna do it, do you want the gig?’ I’m like, ‘Fuck yeah, a paying gig?! Oh, my God! Yes!’ So, I took the gig to go up to Burlington, Vermont. 'And, I think it was a $ 58 round-trip bus ticket. I get to this pig show, I strap my acoustic guitar on, and I walked around a pig show playing music. I did that for about 3 hours, and took the bus home, and the next day, the booking agent called me up, and said, ‘Hey, yeah, so you did a really good job at the pig show. . . .’ 'So many opportunities, and 10 years of stage experience, came from that one piddly little pig show. . . . When you’re earlier in your career, I think the best strategy is to just say ‘yes’ to everything. Every little gig. You just never know what are the lottery tickets." -Tim Ferriss
"The really efficient laborer will be found not to crowd his day with work, but will saunter to his task surrounded by a wide halo of ease and leisure. There will be a wide margin for relaxation to his day. He is only earnest to secure the kernels of time, and does not exaggerate the value of the husk." -Tim Ferriss
"Mariage Frères Marco Polo black tea)" -Tim Ferriss
"One of the best pieces of advice I’ve received for writing was a mantra: 'Two crappy pages per day." -Tim Ferriss
"In 2007, I had one wealth manager ask me, 'What is your risk tolerance?' and I answered honestly: 'I have no idea.' It threw him off. I then asked him for the average of his clients’ responses. He said, 'Most answer that they would not panic up to about 20% down in one quarter.' My follow-up question was: 'When do most actually panic and start selling low?' His answer: 'When they’re down 5% in one quarter." -Tim Ferriss
"Koppelman (TW: @briankoppelman, briankoppelman.com) is a screenwriter, novelist, director, and producer. Prior to his hit show Billions, which he co-created and executive produced (and co-wrote" -Tim Ferriss
"Cubrir los inconvenientes: «Cada una de estas [personas] está obsesionada con no perder dinero. Pero" -Tim Ferriss
"The questions in my mind were: 'What is really the worst that could happen if I stopped angel investing for a minimum of 6 to 12 months? Do those worst-case scenarios really matter? How could I undo any potential damage? Could I do a 2-week test?' As you’ll notice, I made lists of the guaranteed upsides versus speculative downsides. If we define 'risk' as I like to—the likelihood of an irreversible negative outcome—we can see how stupid (and unnecessarily painful) all my fretting and procrastination was. All I needed to do was put it on paper." -Tim Ferriss
"¿Qué coste te ha supuesto cada creencia o convencimiento en el pasado y qué coste le ha supuesto a la gente que has amado en el pasado?" -Tim Ferriss
"The second strategy is fairly easy. Everyone has at least a few areas in which they could be in the top 25% with some effort. In my case, I can draw better than most people, but I’m hardly an artist. And I’m not any funnier than the average standup comedian who never makes it big, but I’m funnier than most people. The magic is that few people can draw well and write jokes. It’s the combination of the two that makes what I do so rare." -Tim Ferriss
"The key to a great life is simply having a bunch of great days. So you can think about it one day at a time.' Mr. Money Mustache" -Tim Ferriss
"Then, I did what I often do—whether considering a business decision, personal relationship, or otherwise—I asked myself the one question that helps answer many others . . . What would this look like if it were easy?" -Tim Ferriss
"When I’m cooking or doing other physical work and I get overwhelmed, it’s usually because I’m not taking care of myself, so I’ll take a break. I’ll make a snack or a cup of tea. Or I’ll just drink a glass of water and sit down outside for a few minutes. It’s usually enough to get me calm and clear." -Tim Ferriss
"For the great enemy of truth is very often not the lie—deliberate, contrived and dishonest—but the myth—persistent, persuasive, and unrealistic. Too often we hold fast to the clichés of our forebears. We subject all facts to a prefabricated set of interpretations. We enjoy the comfort of opinion without the discomfort of thought.'—John F. Kennedy" -Tim Ferriss
"Those of us who are lucky enough to live in a world where we have enough and we have a roof and we have food—we find ourselves caught in this cycle of keeping track of the wrong things. Keeping track of how many times we’ve been rejected. Keeping track of how many times it didn’t work. Keeping track of all the times someone has broken our heart or double-crossed us or let us down. Of course, we can keep track of those things, but why? Why keep track of them? Are they making us better?" -Tim Ferriss
"Si intentas predecir lo que interesará [al público] y haces contorsiones para adaptarte a esas expectativas" -Tim Ferriss
"I’ve learned an important trick: To develop foresight, you need to practice hindsight." -Tim Ferriss
"I look at every failure as a learning experience and try to spend time with my failures. I stew on them for a while until I pick out some nugget from them that I can take forward." -Tim Ferriss
"Look for a partner you’ll try to impress daily, and one who will try to impress you.' Over the last couple decades, I’ve noticed that the best, most enduring partnerships in business (and in life) are among people who are constantly growing together. If the person you choose to depend on is constantly striving to learn and improve, you too will push yourself to new levels of achievement, and neither of you will feel like you have settled for someone you eventually outgrow." -Tim Ferriss
"This doesn’t mean you ignore planning. I encourage you to make huge, ambitious plans. Just remember that the big-beyond-belief things are accomplished when you deconstruct them into the smallest possible pieces and focus on each 'moment of impact,' one step at a time." -Tim Ferriss
"Life can be much broader, once you discover one simple fact, and that is that everything around you that you call ‘life’ was made up by people that were no smarter than you." -Tim Ferriss
"clarity of writing indicates clarity of thinking." -Tim Ferriss
"The vast majority of people will never find a job that can be an unending source of fulfillment, so that is not the goal here; to free time and automate income is." -Tim Ferriss
"The combination of GST and AcroYoga (page 52) has completely remodeled my body in the last year. I’m more flexible and mobile at age 39 than I was at age 20. I’m going to skip explaining a lot (e.g., Maltese, Stalder press handstand) that is best seen in video or pictures, though I’ll describe the most critical (starting on page 53). Google is your friend." -Tim Ferriss
"3. Take One Breath a Day" -Tim Ferriss
"What is one of the best or most worthwhile investments you’ve ever made? Investing in Cobra back in the early ’90s. My $ 1.8 million investment earned me $ 40 million after the company was bought by Acushnet. I rolled that money back into my business. The decision was a no-brainer for three reasons: My investment got me 12 percent of Cobra and the allocation of my investment was put to R& D. During this era, Callaway was the first to go to market with an oversize driver but neglected to follow up on oversize irons. We/ Cobra decided to attack this virgin market immediately by producing oversize irons for men and women, and we catered for the senior player, which had been left neglected. This decision was a solid rocket booster for Cobra’s massive growth in the marketplace. I was to remain an endorsed player representing Cobra for years to come, receiving an annual payment that would quickly recoup my initial investment. So, my ROI was always guaranteed, leaving me with 12 percent of a company that had hyper growth. I was the #1 player in the world during these halcyon times—a global player. So, fortunately for us, I was a needle-mover in regards to exposure in a sport that was booming in the ’80s, hence product promotion and awareness." -Tim Ferriss
"What you seek is seeking you." -Tim Ferriss
"Anna Fels. 'Should We All Take a Bit of Lithium?' The New York Times (Sept. 13, 2014)." -Tim Ferriss
"I’d helped kick caffeine withdrawal the week before. I’d given him an l-tyrosine cocktail and," -Tim Ferriss
"los libros que recomienda para cultivar la capacidad de negociar es en realidad un libro infantil que se lee en diez minutos: Sopa de Piedras, de Marcia Brown." -Tim Ferriss
"Sooner or later, parents have to take responsibility for putting their kids into a system that is indebting them and teaching them to be cogs in an economy that doesn’t want cogs anymore. Parents get to decide . . . [and] from 3 p.m. to 10 p.m., those kids are getting homeschooled. And they’re either getting home-schooled and watching The Flintstones, or they’re getting homeschooled and learning something useful." -Tim Ferriss
"Dedica de dos a tres horas a concentrarte en UNA de esas tareas hoy. Deja de lado el resto de lo urgente, pero menos importante. Mañana seguirá ahí. PARA QUE QUEDE" -Tim Ferriss
"«Hace poco me preguntaron si iba a despedir a un empleado que había cometido un error que le había costado a la empresa 600.000 dólares. No, respondí, acabo de gastarme 600.000 en formarle.» THOMAS J. WATSON, fundador de IBM" -Tim Ferriss
"Too often, aspiring artists put pressure on themselves to make their creative work their only source of income. In my experience, it’s a road to misery. If art is your sole source of income, then there’s unrelenting pressure on that art, and mercenary pressure is the enemy of the creative elves inside you trying to get the work done." -Tim Ferriss
"But not until I started PayPal did I fully realize that you don’t have to wait to start something. So if you’re planning to do something with your life, if you have a 10-year plan of how to get there, you should ask: Why can’t you do this in 6 months?" -Tim Ferriss
"You can’t make a lousy charity good by having a low overhead." -Tim Ferriss
"What gets measured gets managed. —PETER DRUCKER, management theorist, author of 31 books, recipient of Presidential Medal of Freedom" -Tim Ferriss
"Many of the one-liners teach volumes. Some summarize excellence in an entire field in one sentence. As Josh Waitzkin (page 577), chess prodigy and the inspiration behind Searching for Bobby Fischer, might put it, these bite-sized learnings are a way to 'learn the macro from the micro.' The process of piecing them together was revelatory. If I thought I saw 'the Matrix' before, I was mistaken, or I was only seeing 10% of it. Still, even that 10%—' islands' of notes on individual mentors—had already changed my life and helped me 10x my results. But after revisiting more than a hundred minds as part of the same fabric, things got very interesting very quickly. For the movie nerds among you, it was like the end of The Sixth Sense or The Usual Suspects: 'The red door knob! The fucking Kobayashi coffee cup! How did I not notice that?! It was right in front of me the whole time!' To help you see the same, I’ve done my best to weave patterns together throughout the book, noting where guests have complementary habits, beliefs, and recommendations. The completed jigsaw puzzle is much greater than the sum of its parts." -Tim Ferriss
"Don’t believe everything you think.' –BJ Miller, MD" -Tim Ferriss
"«Los límites de mi lenguaje representan los límites de mi mundo»." -Tim Ferriss
"Success, however you define it, is achievable if you collect the right field-tested beliefs and habits. Someone else has done your version of 'success' before, and often, many have done something similar." -Tim Ferriss
"when you’re going 10% bigger, you’re competing against everybody. Everybody’s trying to go 10% bigger. When you’re trying to go 10 times bigger, you’re there by yourself." -Tim Ferriss
"but the symbolism of delighting in something that goes away." -Tim Ferriss
"At least three times per day at scheduled times, he had to ask himself the following question:" -Tim Ferriss
"Because the goal is to free your time to focus on bigger and better things." -Tim Ferriss
"it’s nice to know that when you get started each day seems to matter less than learning how to get started consistently, however" -Tim Ferriss
"Maria Popova" -Tim Ferriss
"I believe you shouldn’t start a business unless people are asking you to." -Tim Ferriss
"«La robustez es preocuparse más por los pocos que valoran tu trabajo que por la multitud que lo odia (artistas); la fragilidad es preocuparse más por los pocos que odian tu trabajo que por la multitud que lo valora (políticos)». Opta por la robustez." -Tim Ferriss
"Diferente, no sólo mejor" -Tim Ferriss
"La pelea termina cuando empieza la gratitud." -Tim Ferriss
"tablespoons, if you’d care to indulge). Will the body composition outcomes be the same? Of course not. Rule #2: The hormonal responses to carbohydrates (CHO), protein, and fat are different. There is no shortage of clinical studies to prove that beef calories7 do not equal bourbon calories. One such study, conducted by Kekwick and Pawan, compared three groups put on calorically equal (isocaloric) semistarvation diets of 90% fat, 90% protein, or 90% carbohydrate. Though ensuring compliance was a challenge, the outcomes were clearly not at all the same: 1,000 cals. at 90% fat = weight loss of 0.9 lbs. per day 1,000 cals. at 90% protein = weight loss of 0.6 lbs. per day 1,000 cals. at 90% carbohydrate = weight gain of 0.24 lbs. per day Different sources of calories = different results. Things that affect calorie allocation—and that can be modified for fat-loss and muscle gain—include digestion, the ratio of protein-to-carbohydrates-to-fat, and timing. We’ll address all three. Marilyn Monroe building her world-famous sex appeal. More than 50% of the examples in this book are of women. Marketers have conditioned women to believe that they need specific programs and diets 'for women.' This is an example of capitalism at its worst: creating false need and confusion. Does this mean I’m going to recommend that a woman do exactly the same thing as a 250-pound meathead who wants 20-inch arms? Of course not. The two have different goals. But 99% of the time both genders want exactly the same thing: less fat and a bit more muscle in the right places. Guess what? In these" -Tim Ferriss
"Whenever you find yourself on the side of the majority, it is time to pause and reflect. —MARK TWAIN Anyone who lives within their means suffers from a lack of imagination. —OSCAR WILDE, Irish dramatist and novelist" -Tim Ferriss
"En igualdad de condiciones, para incrementar tu felicidad, lo único que hay que hacer es desearle a cualquier otra persona elegida al azar que sea feliz." -Tim Ferriss
"Jack used to say it’s okay to take a day off from working out. But on that day, you’re not allowed to eat." -Tim Ferriss
"Practica el juego de «yo primero» GABBY: «Siempre me digo que yo seré la primera… Eso significa que si voy a pagar en una tienda, yo saludaré primero. Si me cruzo con alguien y hay contacto visual, yo seré la primera en sonreír. [Ojalá] la gente probara a hacer eso un poquito en su día a día: sé el primero, porque (no siempre, pero la mayoría de las veces) te beneficiará." -Tim Ferriss
"Notice how often he reframes the question (examines whether the question is the right question) before answering. In several cases, how he dissects wording is as interesting as his answers." -Tim Ferriss
"The stupidity of people comes from having an answer for everything. The wisdom of the novel comes from having a question for everything.' Substitute 'master learner' for 'novel,' and you have my philosophy of life. Often, all that stands between you and what you want is a better set of questions." -Tim Ferriss
"Sweet and Sour Summers 'There is something my parents did, and it was pretty unique. My brother and I refer to it as ‘The Sweet and Sour Summer.’ My parents would send us, for the first half of the summer, to an internship with a relative or a friend of the family who had an interesting job. So, at 12, I went and interned with my godbrother, who is a lobbyist in D.C. I would go along with him to pitch congressmen. I had one tie, and I was a pretty good writer. I’d write up one-page summaries of these bills we were pitching, and I’d literally sit there with these congressmen with these filthy mouths—you know, the old Alabaman senator and stuff like that—and watch the pitch happen. It was awesome. I learned so much and developed so much confidence, and really honed my storytelling skills. 'But then, from there, I would come home and work in a construction outfit, in a nasty, nasty job. I mean, hosing off the equipment that had been used to fix septic systems, gassing shit up, dragging shit around in the yard, filling up propane tanks. Just being the junior guy on the totem pole, and quite literally getting my ass kicked by whichever parolee was angry at me that day. I think it was part of their master plan, which was: There’s a world of cool opportunities out there for you, but let’s build within you a sense of not just work ethic, but also, a little kick in the ass about why you don’t wanna end up in one of those real jobs. . . .' TIM: 'You had the introduction to the godbrother, for the lobbying. Did your parents also help organize the sour part of each summer?' CHRIS: 'The guy who ran that construction company is my dad’s best friend, and he was under strict orders to make sure we had the roughest day there." -Tim Ferriss
"Reality is negotiable. Outside of science and law, all rules can be bent or broken, and it doesn’t require being unethical. The DEAL of deal making is also an acronym for the process of becoming a member of the New Rich." -Tim Ferriss
"Over the last couple decades, I’ve noticed that the best, most enduring partnerships in business (and in life) are among people who are constantly growing together. If the person you choose to depend on is constantly striving to learn and improve, you too will push yourself to new levels of achievement, and neither of you will feel like you have settled for someone you eventually outgrow." -Tim Ferriss
"But,' you might ask, 'what about a first, like colonizing Mars?' There are still recipes. Look" -Tim Ferriss
"Lo que más tememos hacer suele ser lo que más necesitamos hacer." -Tim Ferriss
"We have no scar to show for happiness. We learn so little from peace.'–Chuck Palahniuk Famed American author, best known for Fight Club" -Tim Ferriss
"The Four Agreements by Don Miguel Ruiz." -Tim Ferriss
"Zamiłowanie do krzątaniny to jeszcze nie przedsiębiorczość." -Tim Ferriss
"We’d all be happier and more successful if we could learn to be chefs more often—which just takes some self-awareness of the times we’re being a cook and an epiphany that it’s not actually as scary as it seems to reason independently and act on it." -Tim Ferriss
"What gets measured gets managed." -Tim Ferriss
"No tiene ningún sentido que a las niñas se les diga que son más frágiles" -Tim Ferriss
"There are many things of which a wise man might wish to be ignorant. —RALPH WALDO EMERSON" -Tim Ferriss
"Black Box Thinking: The Surprising Truth About Success, by Matthew Syed." -Tim Ferriss
"Brave Enough by Cheryl Strayed." -Tim Ferriss
"There needs to be one decisive reason, and then the worthiness of the trip needs to be measured against that one reason. If I go, then we can backfill into the schedule all the other secondary activities. But if I go for a blended reason, I’ll almost surely come back and feel like it was a waste of time." -Tim Ferriss
"No sobrestimes el mundo mientras te subestimas a ti mismo. Eres mejor de lo que crees. Y no estás solo." -Tim Ferriss
"One study has demonstrated that a 30-minute sauna session twice a week for 3 weeks post-workout increased the time it took for study participants to run until exhaustion by 32% compared to baseline. The 32% increase in running endurance found in this particular study was accompanied by a 7.1% increase in plasma volume and 3.5% increase in red blood cell count." -Tim Ferriss
"Ego is about who’s right. Truth is about what’s right." -Tim Ferriss
"Most people exist between the on and off switch. They are unable to turn on and put out high power, and they are unable to turn off completely and enjoy true rest. To learn how to control your on and off" -Tim Ferriss
"This will set the stage for replacing yourself with Automation, which in turn permits Liberation. For both tracks, some definitions are in order." -Tim Ferriss
"On Good Doctors 'The length of time they spend with you on your first visit is probably your best indicator [of their quality]." -Tim Ferriss
"The billboard would say, 'Great opportunities never have ‘great opportunity’ in the subject line." -Tim Ferriss
"«Dime algo en lo que tú creas y otras personas encuentran demencial»." -Tim Ferriss
"I prefer to be true to myself, even at the hazard of incurring the ridicule of others, rather than to be false, and to incur my own abhorrence.' –Frederick Douglass" -Tim Ferriss
"Hot baths can also significantly increase GH over baseline, and both sauna and hot baths have been shown to cause a massive release in prolactin, which plays a role in wound healing. I usually stay in a hot bath or sauna for about 20 minutes, which is long enough to significantly elevate my heart rate. I push a few minutes past dynorphin release, which usually makes one feel dysphoric and want to get out (but *not* to dizziness or lightheadedness). Generally, I’ll listen to an audiobook like The Graveyard Book by Neil Gaiman during the heat, then cool off for 5 to 10 minutes using an ice bath (I put 40 pounds of ice in a large bath to get it to roughly 45°F; more details on page 43) and/or by drinking ice water. I’ll repeat this cycle 2 to 4 times." -Tim Ferriss
"6. «Intentar gustar a todo el mundo es un signo de mediocridad. Evitarás las decisiones difíciles y evitarás enfrentarte a la gente a la que debes enfrentarte.» — Colin Powell" -Tim Ferriss
"Create slack, as no one will give it to you." -Tim Ferriss
"Named must your fear be before banish it you can. —YODA, from Star Wars: The Empire Strikes Back" -Tim Ferriss
"Para tener una vida de éxito que entre dentro de la media, no hace falta planificar demasiado. Basta con no meterte en problemas, seguir una formación académica y buscarte un trabajo que te pueda gustar." -Tim Ferriss
"workwithsource.com" -Tim Ferriss
"Draft ugly and edit pretty." -Tim Ferriss
"Wireshark puedes empezar a ver todo el tráfico que entra y sale de tu ordenador," -Tim Ferriss
"«deseo que esa persona sea feliz, y deseo que esa otra persona sea feliz». Nada más. Les recuerdo que no deben hacer ni decir nada, basta con que lo piensen (este ejercicio consiste únicamente en pensar). Todo el ejercicio requiere tan sólo pensar durante diez segundos. Todo el mundo termina esta actividad sonriendo, más feliz que diez segundos antes. Ésta es la alegría del amor incondicional. Resulta que ser objeto de un pensamiento amable es reconfortante en y por sí mismo… En igualdad de condiciones, para incrementar tu felicidad, lo único que hay que hacer es desearle a cualquier otra persona elegida al azar que sea feliz. Eso es todo. Básicamente" -Tim Ferriss
"Puede que estés pensando: '¿Cómo puedo sacar lo mejor posible el trabajo del curso?" -Tim Ferriss
"Usually, what we most fear doing is what we most need to do." -Tim Ferriss
"If you want an average, successful life, it doesn’t take much planning. Just stay out of trouble, go to school, and apply for jobs you might like. But if you want something extraordinary, you have two paths: 1) Become the best at one specific thing. 2) Become very good (top 25%) at two or more things. The first strategy is difficult to the point of near impossibility. Few people will ever play in the NBA or make a platinum album. I don’t recommend anyone even try. The second strategy is fairly easy. Everyone has at least a few areas in which they could be in the top 25% with some effort. In my case, I can draw better than most people, but I’m hardly an artist. And I’m not any funnier than the average standup comedian who never makes it big, but I’m funnier than most people. The magic is that few people can draw well and write jokes. It’s the combination of the two that makes what I do so rare. And when you add in my business background, suddenly I had a topic that few cartoonists could hope to understand without living it. I always advise young people to become good public speakers (top 25%). Anyone can do it with practice. If you add that talent to any other, suddenly you’re the boss of the people who have only one skill. Or get a degree in business on top of your engineering degree, law degree, medical degree, science degree, or whatever. Suddenly you’re in charge, or maybe you’re starting your own company using your combined knowledge. Capitalism rewards things that are both rare and valuable. You make yourself rare by combining two or more 'pretty goods' until no one else has your mix. . . . At least one of the skills in your mixture should involve communication, either written or verbal. And it could be as simple as learning how to sell more effectively than 75% of the world. That’s one. Now add to that whatever your passion is, and you have two, because that’s the thing you’ll easily put enough energy into to reach the top 25%. If you have an aptitude for a third skill, perhaps business or public speaking, develop that too. It sounds like generic advice, but you’d be hard-pressed to find any successful person who didn’t have about three skills in the top 25%." -Tim Ferriss
"Ilusión es el sinónimo llevado a la práctica de felicidad y es precisamente lo que deberías aspirar a conseguir. Es el curalotodo. Cuando te aconsejan que te dediques a tu «pasión» o a «lo que te haga feliz», en mi opinión se están refiriendo al mismo concepto: ilusión. Lo que nos devuelve a donde partimos. La pregunta que debes hacerte no es «¿Qué quiero?» o «¿Cuáles son mis objetivos?», sino «¿Qué me hace ilusión?»." -Tim Ferriss
"Kurt Vonnegut said about his process: 'When I write, I feel like an armless, legless man with a crayon in his mouth.' Don’t overestimate the world and underestimate yourself. You are better than you think. And you are not alone." -Tim Ferriss
"Si hicieras eso mismo con tu vida profesional, tendrías que dedicar cuatro mil horas, o dos años de trabajo." -Tim Ferriss
"Out of Control by Kevin Kelly" -Tim Ferriss
"Here are a few common time-consumers in small businesses with online presences. Submitting articles to drive traffic to site and build mailing lists Participating in or moderating discussion forums and message boards Managing affiliate programs Creating content for and publishing newsletters and blog postings Background research components of new marketing initiatives or analysis of current marketing results Don’t expect miracles from a single" -Tim Ferriss
"擔心完全無濟於事保羅：「我跟拳王佛洛伊德．梅偉瑟（Floyd Mayweather）有點交情，有一次還陪他走上擂臺，好像是他跟馬爾克斯的比賽吧。那天我想順便看副賽，所以我和我太太提早到場。結果他的人過來跟我說：『佛洛伊德想在出賽前說聲嗨，小聊幾分鐘。』於是我們來到後臺他的休息室，看到他躺在那裡，一派輕鬆地正在看籃球賽轉播。他招呼我們：『嗨，隨便坐。』我們聊了一下，但我無法放很開，畢竟他等下可是要打冠軍賽的。'Excerpt From: 提摩西．費里斯（Timothy Ferriss）. '人生勝利聖經.' Apple Books. '我們的對話一安靜下來，我就說：『好了，不打擾你了。等你都好了，我們再回這邊。』可是他說：『喔，你不用閃人啦。繼續坐啊，我聊得很開心。』他整個人放鬆到不行。「之後我們的對話又安靜下來，我就說：『佛洛伊德，我們還是先走吧。我不想打擾到你。』他說：『大哥，我跟你說，要放鬆看待比賽。』我說：『你不用上緊發條嗎？』他說：『我幹嘛上緊什麼發條？我要嘛準備好了，要嘛沒有，現在瞎操心根本無濟於事嘛？比賽會怎樣就怎樣。我要嘛就是做好了萬全準備，要嘛就是沒有。』」TF：惠特妮．卡明談到表演時也說過類似的話：「我的工作不是在今晚完成，而是三個月前就完成了。今晚我只需要出場而已。'Excerpt From: 提摩西．費里斯（Timothy Ferriss）. '人生勝利聖經.' Apple Books." -Tim Ferriss
"Solio" -Tim Ferriss
"Even if you consider yourself a terrible writer, writing can be viewed as a tool. There are huge benefits to writing, even if no one—yourself included—ever reads what you write. In other words, the process matters more than the product." -Tim Ferriss
"Let it go. I do mean to take life very seriously, but I need to take things like playfulness and purposelessness very seriously. . . . This is not meant to be light, but I think I would have somehow encouraged myself to let go a little bit more and hang in there and not pretend to know where this is all going. You don’t need to know where it’s all going." -Tim Ferriss
"Therefore, to be furious and enraged and bitter that people don’t get all of who we are is a really a cruel piece of immaturity." -Tim Ferriss
"All of my biggest wins have come from leveraging strengths instead of fixing weaknesses. Investing is hard enough without having to change your core behaviors. Don’t push a boulder uphill just because you can." -Tim Ferriss
"Narzuć sobie niemożliwie krótkie terminy, by zmusić się do natychmiastowych działań i odrzucenia drobiazgów." -Tim Ferriss
"offense or defense. I think that as you survey the challenges in your lives, it’s just: Which of those did you assign yourself, and which of those are you doing to please someone else? Your inbox" -Tim Ferriss
"Neal Gabler’s biography of Walt Disney." -Tim Ferriss
"Practice Going First GABBY: 'I always say that I’ll go first. . . . That means if I’m checking out at the store, I’ll say hello first. If I’m coming across somebody and make eye contact, I’ll smile first. [I wish] people would experiment with that in their life a little bit: Be first, because—not all times, but most times—it comes in your favor. The response is pretty amazing." -Tim Ferriss
"Each delegated task must be both time-consuming and well-defined. If you’re running around like a chicken with its head cut off and assign your VA to do that for you, it doesn’t improve the order of the universe." -Tim Ferriss
"If someone is going to ask, or asks, 'Where should we eat?' 'What movie should we watch?' 'What should we do tonight?' or anything similar, do NOT reflect it back with, 'Well, what do you want to …?' Offer a solution. Stop the back-and-forth and make a decision. Practice this in both personal and professional environments. Here are a few lines that help (my favorites are the first and last): 'Can I make a suggestion?' 'I propose …' 'I’d like to propose …' 'I suggest that … What do you think?' 'Let’s try … and then try something else if that doesn’t work." -Tim Ferriss
"Pero en las primeras fases, cuando se está gestando la idea, tu apuesta se basa en gran medida en la calidad del equipo y en la conexión emocional que sientes con el producto." -Tim Ferriss
"PARTING ADVICE? 'What I would really like is for those of you who have been told that you’re learning disabled, or you’re not good at math, or that you’re terrible at music, or something like that, to seek out unconventional ways of proving that wrong. Believe not only in yourselves, but that there are [ways, tools, methods] powerful enough to make things that look very difficult much easier than you ever imagined." -Tim Ferriss
"«Quizá la acción no traiga siempre consigo la felicidad, pero no hay felicidad sin acción.»" -Tim Ferriss
"Aquí tienes un resumen muy simplificado: El «éxito» no tiene por qué ser complicado. Basta con empezar haciendo muy muy felices a mil personas." -Tim Ferriss
"A goal without real consequences is wishful thinking. Good follow-through doesn’t depend on the right intentions. It depends on the right incentives." -Tim Ferriss
"Neil Gaiman’s 'Make Good Art' commencement speech, which he gave at Philadelphia’s University of the Arts. I’ve watched the video dozens of times on YouTube during rough periods. Our mutual favorite portion is 'The moment that you feel that, just possibly, you’re walking down the street naked, exposing too much of your heart and your mind and what exists on the inside, showing too much of yourself. That’s the moment you may be starting to get it right.' And, yes," -Tim Ferriss
"(he only drinks Mariage Frères Marco Polo black tea)" -Tim Ferriss
"If I believed this, how would it affect my decisions in the next week? Over the next 6 to 12 months?" -Tim Ferriss
"Dr. Maté has written several best-selling books, including the award-winning In the Realm of Hungry Ghosts: Close Encounters with Addiction." -Tim Ferriss
"What is the book (or books) you’ve given most as a gift, and why? Or what are one to three books that have greatly influenced your life? What purchase of $100 or less has most positively impacted your life in the last six months (or in recent memory)? My readers love specifics like brand and model, where you found it, etc. How has a failure, or apparent failure, set you up for later success? Do you have a 'favorite failure' of yours? If you could have a gigantic billboard anywhere with anything on it—metaphorically speaking, getting a message out to millions or billions—what would it say and why? It could be a few words or a paragraph. (If helpful, it can be someone else’s quote: Are there any quotes you think of often or live your life by?) What is one of the best or most worthwhile investments you’ve ever made? (Could be an investment of money, time, energy, etc.) What is an unusual habit or an absurd thing that you love? In the last five years, what new belief, behavior, or habit has most improved your life? What advice would you give to a smart, driven college student about to enter the 'real world'? What advice should they ignore? What are bad recommendations you hear in your profession or area of expertise? In the last five years, what have you become better at saying no to (distractions, invitations, etc.)? What new realizations and/or approaches helped? Any other tips? When you feel overwhelmed or unfocused, or have lost your focus temporarily, what do you do? (If helpful: What questions do you ask yourself?)" -Tim Ferriss
"You won’t take a bullet for pleasure or power, but you will for meaning." -Tim Ferriss
"The New Rich (NR) are those who abandon the deferred-life plan and create luxury lifestyles in the present using the currency of the New Rich: time and mobility." -Tim Ferriss
"He had realized something while arcing in slow circles toward the earth—risks weren’t that scary once you took them. His" -Tim Ferriss
"A man is rich in proportion to the number of things he can afford to let alone.' –Henry David Thoreau" -Tim Ferriss
"n>" -Tim Ferriss
"What advice would you give to a smart, driven college student about to enter the 'real world'? What advice should they ignore? If you’re really smart, you’ll drop the drivenness. It doesn’t matter what’s driving you; when you’re driven, you are like a leaf, driven by the wind. You have no real autonomy. You are bound to be blown off course, even if you reach what you believe is your goal. And don’t confuse being driven with being authentically animated by an inner calling. One state leaves you depleted and unfulfilled; the other fuels your soul and makes your heart sing. What are bad recommendations you hear in your profession or area of expertise? 'Just say no' (to drugs, gambling, eating, sex, etc.) is the least helpful advice one can say to a human being caught up in any addiction. If they could say no, they would. The whole point of addiction is that people are compelled to it by suffering, trauma, unease, and emotional pain. If you want to help people, ask why they are in so much pain that they are driven (there’s that word again) to escape from it through ultimately self-harming habits or substances. Then support them in healing the trauma at the core of their addiction, a process that always starts with nonjudgmental curiosity and compassion." -Tim Ferriss
"antes de dormir, yo tomo fosfatidilserina y N-acetil cisteína (o NAC" -Tim Ferriss
"There were three reasons why we survived: We had no money, we had no technology, and we had no plan. Every dollar, we used very carefully." -Tim Ferriss
"nada concentra más tu tiempo como saber cuántos días te quedan." -Tim Ferriss
"I like to promote mild to moderate ketosis for health and longevity, which is between 1 to 3 mmol." -Tim Ferriss
"Sometimes you need to stop doing things you love in order to nurture the one thing that matters most." -Tim Ferriss
"What is the book (or books) you’ve given most as a gift, and why? Or what are one to three books that have greatly influenced your life? Man’s Search for Meaning by Viktor E. Frankl. He introduces the insights that he learned from surviving imprisonment in a Nazi concentration camp. He outlines methods to discover deep meaning and purpose in life. The Tao Te Ching by Lao Tzu. His 81 Zen teachings are the foundation for the religion of Taoism, aimed at understanding 'the way of virtues.' Lao Tzu’s depth of teachings are complicated to decode and provide foundations for wisdom. Mind Gym by Gary Mack is a book that strips down the esoteric nature of applied sport psychology. Gary introduces a variety of mindset training principles and makes them extremely easy to understand and practice. What purchase of $ 100 or less has most positively impacted your life in the last six months (or in recent memory)? A book for my son: Inch and Miles, written by coach John Wooden. We read it together on a regular basis. The joy that I get from hearing him understand Coach Wooden’s insights is fantastically rewarding." -Tim Ferriss
"»Creo que la gente no aprende mucho en realidad del fracaso." -Tim Ferriss
"»Yo procuro aprender del pasado sin dejarme inspirar por él. La gran pregunta que me hago siempre es, '¿Qué querían hacer y por qué funcionó?'." -Tim Ferriss
"The future is here. It’s just not widely distributed yet. —WILLIAM GIBSON," -Tim Ferriss
"In the last five years, what new belief, behavior, or habit has most improved your life?" -Tim Ferriss
"I used to resent obstacles along the path, thinking, 'If only that hadn’t happened life would be so good.' Then I suddenly realized, life is the obstacles." -Tim Ferriss
"You realize that you will never be the best-looking person in the room. You’ll never be the smartest person in the room. You’ll never be the most educated, the most well-versed. You can never compete on those levels. But what you can always compete on, the true egalitarian aspect to success, is hard work. You can always work harder than the next guy." -Tim Ferriss
"I’ve learned to envision the ideal end to any project before I begin it now—" -Tim Ferriss
"I’m there to learn. I’m not there to win; I’m there to learn, because then I’ll win, eventually. . . ." -Tim Ferriss
"Swaraj, a term usually associated with Mahatma Gandhi, can be translated as 'self-rule.' Think of it as charting your own path." -Tim Ferriss
"Cultivating Selective Ignorance There are many things of which a wise man might wish to be ignorant. —RALPH WALDO EMERSON (1803–1882)" -Tim Ferriss
"First and foremost, there is a difference between being perceived as an expert and being one. In the context of business, the former is what sells product and the latter, relative to your 'minimal customer base,' is what creates good products and prevents returns." -Tim Ferriss
"In reality, long-term travel has nothing to do with demographics—age, ideology, income—and everything to do with personal outlook. Long-term travel isn’t about being a college student—it’s about being a student of daily life. Long-term travel isn’t an act of rebellion against society—it’s an act of common sense within society. Long-term travel doesn’t require a massive 'bundle of cash'; it requires only that we walk through the world in a more deliberate way." -Tim Ferriss
"«Hay un proceso en el que una vez que despejas la mente, tienes que dejar que vuelva a llenarse. Lo llamarás de otra manera, pero yo sé que lo haces. Así que la dejas en blanco, y dejas que se inunde con cosas nuevas que no son las mismas que la llenaban antes." -Tim Ferriss
"There are two types of mistakes: mistakes of ambition and mistakes of sloth. The first is the result of a decision to act—to do something. This type of mistake is made with incomplete information, as it’s impossible to have all the facts beforehand. This is to be encouraged. Fortune favors the bold. The second is the result of a decision of sloth—to not do something—wherein we refuse to change a bad situation out of fear despite having all the facts. This is how learning experiences become terminal punishments, bad relationships become bad marriages, and poor job choices become lifelong prison sentences." -Tim Ferriss
"You are forced to shed artificial constraints, like shedding a skin, to realize that you had the ability to renegotiate your reality all along. It just takes practice." -Tim Ferriss
"-It is possible to vastly compress most learning. In a surprising number of cases, it is possible to do something in 1-10 months that is assumed to take 1-10 years. -The more you compress things, the more physical limiters become a bottleneck. All learning is physically limited. The brain is dependent on finite quantities of neurotransmitters, memories require REM and non-REM (NREM) sleep for consolidation, etc. The learning graph is not unlike the stress-recovery-hyperadaptation curves of weight training. -The more extreme your ambition, just as in sports, the more you need performance enhancement via unusual schedules, diet, drugs, etc. -Most important: due to the bipolar nature of the learning process, you can forecast setbacks. If you don't, you increase the likelihood of losing morale and quitting before the inflection point." -Tim Ferriss
"What’s the Rush? Can You 'Retire' and Come Back?" -Tim Ferriss
"building trust is a powerful door to possibility." -Tim Ferriss
"I’ve never for a moment even thought about that. I don’t do replays well. The question I’ll never answer is, ‘What would you have done differently had you known X?’ I never, ever play that game because you didn’t know X." -Tim Ferriss
"En el segundo en que empiezas a hacerlo para un público has perdido la partida," -Tim Ferriss
"Having an unusually large goal is an adrenaline infusion that provides the endurance to overcome the inevitable trials and tribulations that go along with any goal. Realistic goals, goals restricted to the average ambition level, are uninspiring and will only fuel you through the first or second problem, at which point you throw in the towel." -Tim Ferriss
"And it turns out there are some pretty simple buttons you can press to give yourself a great day. Start by waking up from a good sleep, eating good food, leaving your phone/newspaper/computer behind, and simply writing down your plan for what will make the day great. Several hours of physical activity, some hard work, a chance to laugh with and help out other people—and you’re pretty much there." -Tim Ferriss
"just like most nightmares, it’s not that big a deal and is reversible." -Tim Ferriss
"The perfect day is caffeine for 10 hours, alcohol for 4. It balances everything out perfectly." -Tim Ferriss
"patterns, it’s easy for me to lose focus, to succumb to distraction. The question that helps me return to the present is, simply, 'Is what I am doing right now aligned with my life’s calling?" -Tim Ferriss
"The New York Times titulado Extreme Ownership: How U.S. Navy SEALs Lead and Win." -Tim Ferriss
"Idleness is not just a vacation, an indulgence, or a vice: It is as indispensable to the brain as vitamin D is to the body, and deprived of it we suffer a mental affliction as disfiguring as rickets. The" -Tim Ferriss
"método bien conocido. Es una técnica de negociación. Lanzas un ancla, distraes a todo el mundo." -Tim Ferriss
"recipientes Pyrex ®." -Tim Ferriss
"Él defiende los suplementos de magnesio. Nuestra capacidad para almacenar magnesio con unos riñones sanos es muy elevada. Él toma de 600 a 800 mg al día, alternando entre sulfato de magnesio y óxido de magnesio. También toma carbonato de calcio dos veces por semana. Dos de sus marcas favoritas son Jarrow Formulas y NOW Foods." -Tim Ferriss
"TF: There is a big difference between understanding something (what you want in a physician) and simply knowing its name or labeling it." -Tim Ferriss
"Buscan la excepción de la regla porque nadie conoce el futuro. Podemos inventarlo, podemos convencernos de que irá bien." -Tim Ferriss
"stop writing, perhaps I’m squandering the biggest opportunity I have, created through much luck, to have a lasting impact on the greatest number of people. This feeling of urgency was multiplied 100-fold in the 2 months preceding the decision, as several close friends died in accidents no one saw coming. Life is short. Put another way: A long life is far from guaranteed. Nearly everyone dies before they’re ready. I was tired of being interchangeable, no matter how lucrative the game. Even if I end up wrong about the writing, I’d curse myself if I didn’t give it a shot. Are you squandering your unique abilities? Or the chance to find them in the first place?" -Tim Ferriss
"Mysteries are not necessarily miracles.' To do the impossible (sail around the world, break the four-minute mile, reach the moon), you need to ignore the popular." -Tim Ferriss
"This doesn’t mean you want to spend your time doing it. If you spend your time, worth $20–25 per hour, doing something that someone else will do for $10 per hour, it’s simply a poor use of resources. It is important to take baby steps toward paying others to do work for you." -Tim Ferriss
"Przyklej na ekranie komputera samoprzylepną karteczkę lub ustaw w Outlooku przypomnienie dotyczące tego, by co najmniej trzy razy dziennie zadawać sobie pytanie: „Czy nie wyszukuję sobie zajęć tylko po to, by uniknąć tego, co ważne?" -Tim Ferriss
"When I articulated that I didn’t care anymore about what anybody thought about what I did except me, all the weight of the world came off my shoulders, and everything became possible. It shifted to everybody else [being] worried. Now they’re worried. But everything for me, it shifted to a place where I felt free." -Tim Ferriss
"This is how most people work until death: 'I’ll just work until I have X dollars and then do what I want.' If you don’t define the 'what I want' alternate activities, the X figure will increase indefinitely to avoid the fear-inducing uncertainty of this void." -Tim Ferriss
"determining which 20% of activities/tasks produce 80% of the results you want)," -Tim Ferriss
"Hell, you don’t even get to be born unless your mother has the courage to have you." -Tim Ferriss
"On Fixing Physical Weaknesses LAIRD: 'All you flexible people should go bang some iron, and all you big weight lifters should go do some yoga. . . . We always gravitate toward our strengths because we want to be in our glory." -Tim Ferriss
"Slow down and remember this: Most things make no difference. Being busy is a form of laziness—lazy thinking and indiscriminate action." -Tim Ferriss
"you’re there, just start taking notes. Read all the other notes you can find on the company, and gain a general knowledge that your very limited job function may not offer you. Just make yourself useful and helpful by doing so. That’s worked for me in" -Tim Ferriss
"If you have a 10-year plan of how to get [somewhere], you should ask: Why can’t you do this in 6 months?" -Tim Ferriss
"Expect small problems. Life is full of compromises, and it’s necessary to let small bad things happen if you want to get huge good things done. There is no escape. Prevent all problems and get nothing done, or accept an allowable level of small problems and focus on the big things." -Tim Ferriss
"Desire is a contract that you make with yourself to be unhappy until you get what you want." -Tim Ferriss
"Be present above all else. Desire is suffering (Buddha). Anger is a hot coal that you hold in your hand while waiting to throw it at someone else (Buddhist saying). If you can’t see yourself working with someone for life, don’t work with them for a day. Reading (learning) is the ultimate meta-skill and can be traded for anything else. All the real benefits in life come from compound interest. Earn with your mind, not your time. 99% of all effort is wasted. Total honesty at all times. It’s almost always possible to be honest and positive. Praise specifically, criticize generally (Warren Buffett). Truth is that which has predictive power. Watch every thought. (Always ask, 'Why am I having this thought?') All greatness comes from suffering. Love is given, not received. Enlightenment is the space between your thoughts (Eckhart Tolle). Mathematics is the language of nature. Every moment has to be complete in and of itself. A" -Tim Ferriss
"Primero, edito para mí (¿qué me gusta?). En segundo lugar edito para mis seguidores (¿qué sería lo más entretenido y útil para mis seguidores?)." -Tim Ferriss
"This poster, which I still have on my wall 20 years later, contains all 1,945 of the jōyō kanji , the characters designated for basic literacy by the Japanese Ministry of Education. Most" -Tim Ferriss
"El libro ¿Está usted de broma, señor Feynman? (Alianza Editorial, 2016), de Richard P." -Tim Ferriss
"Excitement is the more practical synonym for happiness, and it is precisely what you should strive to chase." -Tim Ferriss
"are forced to shed artificial constraints, like shedding a skin, to realize that you had the ability to renegotiate your reality all along. It just takes practice." -Tim Ferriss
"To do or not to do? To try or not to try? Most people will vote no, whether they consider themselves brave or not. Uncertainty and the prospect of failure can be very scary noises in the shadows. Most people will choose unhappiness over uncertainty." -Tim Ferriss
"Your time is limited, so it’s best to spend it with people who will make you feel like you made the most of your gift of today." -Tim Ferriss
"You don’t 'succeed' because you have no weaknesses; you succeed because you find your unique strengths and focus on developing habits around them. To" -Tim Ferriss
"Google Reverse Image Search es una herramienta de una utilidad sorprendente si quieres indicar una fuente" -Tim Ferriss
"FollowUp.cc: Para seguimientos y recordatorios automáticos del correo electrónico. Yo uso un primo hermano de este servicio llamado Nudgemail, en combinación con Boomerang. Nunca más tendrás que acordarte de perseguir a nadie." -Tim Ferriss
"realidad, basta con una sola regla: el qué haces es más importante que el cómo haces todo lo demás, y hacer algo bien no lo convierte en algo importante." -Tim Ferriss
"Alison Gopnik’s Scientist in the Crib" -Tim Ferriss
"¿Qué has perdido por culpa de esa creencia o convencimiento? Míralo, óyelo, siéntelo." -Tim Ferriss
"Several weeks ago, I came across this poem by Portia Nelson: Autobiography in Five Short Chapters Chapter One I walk down the street. There is a deep hole in the sidewalk. I fall in. I am lost . . . I am helpless.      It isn’t my fault. It takes forever to find a way out. Chapter Two I walk down the same street. There is a deep hole in the sidewalk. I pretend I don’t see it. I fall in again. I can’t believe I am in this same place.      But it isn’t my fault. It still takes a long time to get out. Chapter Three I walk down the same street. There is a deep hole in the sidewalk. I see it is there. I still fall in . . . it’s a habit . . .      but, my eyes are open.      I know where I am. It is my fault. I get out immediately. Chapter Four I walk down the same street. There is a deep hole in the sidewalk. I walk around it. Chapter Five I walk down another street." -Tim Ferriss
"It’s so hard to forget pain, but it’s even harder to remember sweetness. We have no scar to show for happiness. We learn so little from peace.' –Chuck Palahniuk Famed American author, best known for Fight Club" -Tim Ferriss
"People-pleasing is a form of assholery,’ which" -Tim Ferriss
"Creo que el hecho de no tomarse las cosas demasiado en serio tiene un gran poder»." -Tim Ferriss
"If it’s important to you and you want to do it 'eventually,' just do it and correct course along the way." -Tim Ferriss
"learned here. First, per-hour cost is not the ultimate determinant of cost. Look at per-task cost." -Tim Ferriss
"The Biology of Desire: Why Addiction Is Not a Disease by Marc Lewis. Addiction is short-term desire. Purpose is long-term desire." -Tim Ferriss
"«What Really Matters at the End of Life», es una de las quince conferencias TED más vistas del año 2015." -Tim Ferriss
"Just because something is more expensive doesn’t make it better!" -Tim Ferriss
"I believe all audio books should be read and recorded by people from Iceland, because they’ve got the best accent." -Tim Ferriss
"work on the deficiencies you’re most embarrassed by." -Tim Ferriss
"If effectiveness is doing the right things, efficiency is doing things right." -Tim Ferriss
"Workout B 1. One-leg Romanian Deadlift (RDL)4 (10–12 reps each side) 2. Chin-up (four-second negative lowering portion only) × 10 or until you cannot control descent5 3. One-leg hamstring curls on a Swiss ball—6–12 reps each leg 4. Plank for abs (and gluteus medius on sides) → Progression: start with 30 seconds front, 30 seconds each side, working up to 90 seconds maximum 5. Reverse hyper × 15–25 Repeat sequence 2–4 times. See" -Tim Ferriss
"As to methods there may be a million and then some, but principles are few. The man who grasps principles can successfully select his own methods. The man who tries methods, ignoring principles, is sure to have trouble. —RALPH WALDO EMERSON" -Tim Ferriss
"reviews," -Tim Ferriss
"Hold the standard. Ask for help. Fix it. Do whatever’s necessary. But don’t cheat." -Tim Ferriss
"Here’s my protocol for my usual monthly 3-day fast from Thursday dinner to Sunday dinner: On Wednesday and Thursday, plan phone calls for Friday. Determine how you can be productive via cell phone for 4 hours. This will make sense shortly. Have a low-carb dinner around 6 p.m. on Thursday. On Friday, Saturday, and Sunday mornings, sleep as late as possible. The point is to let sleep do some of the work for you. Consume exogenous ketones or MCT oil upon waking and 2 more times throughout the day at 3- to 4-hour intervals. I primarily use KetoCaNa and caprylic acid (C8), like Brain Octane. The exogenous ketones help 'fill the gap' for the 1 to 3 days that you might suffer carb withdrawal. Once you’re in deep ketosis and using body fat, they can be omitted. On Friday (and Saturday if needed), drink some caffeine and prepare to WALK. Be out the door no later than 30 minutes after waking. I grab a cold liter of water or Smartwater out of my fridge, add a dash of pure, unsweetened lemon juice to attenuate boredom, add a few pinches of salt to prevent misery/headaches/cramping, and head out. I sip this as I walk and make phone calls. Podcasts also work. Once you finish your water, fill it up or buy another. Add a little salt, keep walking, and keep drinking. It’s brisk walking—NOT intense exercise—and constant hydration that are key. I have friends who’ve tried running or high-intensity weight training instead, and it does not work for reasons I won’t bore you with. I told them, 'Try brisk walking and tons of water for 3 to 4 hours. I bet you’ll be at 0.7 mmol the next morning.' One of them texted me the next morning: 'Holy shit. 0.7 mmol.' Each day of fasting, feel free to consume exogenous ketones or fat (e.g., coconut oil in tea or coffee) as you like, up to 4 tablespoons. I will often reward myself at the end of each fasting afternoon with an iced coffee with a bit of coconut cream in it. Truth be told, I will sometimes allow myself a SeaSnax packet of nori sheets. Oooh, the decadence. Break your fast on Sunday night. Enjoy it. For a 14-day or longer fast, you need to think about refeeding carefully. But for a 3-day fast, I don’t think what you eat matters much. I’ve done steak, I’ve done salads, I’ve done greasy burritos. Evolutionarily, it makes no sense that a starving hominid would need to find shredded cabbage or some such nonsense to save himself from death. Eat what you find to eat." -Tim Ferriss
"Scarcity: Why Having Too Little Means So Much by Sendhil Mullainathan and Eldar Shafir." -Tim Ferriss
"Epicurus, Seneca, Marcus Aurelius, Plato, Michel de Montaigne, Arthur Schopenhauer, Friedrich Nietzsche, and Bertrand Russell." -Tim Ferriss
"Qué decisiones de las que has tomado te han convertido en la persona que eres?»" -Tim Ferriss
"For me, it’s not how much time you spend doing what you love. It’s how little time you spend doing what you hate." -Tim Ferriss
"The universe doesn’t conspire against you, but it doesn’t go out of its way to line up all the pins either. Conditions are never perfect. 'Someday' is a disease that will take your dreams to the grave with you." -Tim Ferriss
"Morality is simply the attitude we adopt towards people we personally dislike." -Tim Ferriss
"Honey + ACV: My go-to tranquilizer beverage is simple: 2 tablespoons of apple cider vinegar (I use Bragg brand) and 1 tablespoon honey, stirred into 1 cup of hot water. This was taught to me by the late and great Seth Roberts, PhD. Some of his readers also noticed large and immediate strength improvements in exercise after a few days of using this pre-bed cocktail." -Tim Ferriss
"Why Superbad Worked Superbad worked because Seth and Evan wrote about exactly what they were experiencing at the time. Evan explains, 'At the time, all we knew was that we really wanted to get laid, we weren’t getting laid, and we weren’t supercool.' It pays to write what you know. Seth started doing standup when he was 13 years old. He adds: 'That’s something that came from standup comedy. There’s a comic named Darryl Lenox who still performs, who is great. I remember he saw me perform. . . . I would try to mimic other comedians like Steven Wright or Seinfeld, like, ‘What’s the deal with Krazy Glue?’ and he said: ‘Dude, you’re the only person here who could talk about trying to get a hand job for the first time. . . . Talk about that!’' Lessons from Judd Apatow EVAN: 'I would say the biggest thing we learned from [Judd] is ‘Don’t keep stuff to yourself.’ You’re surrounded by smart people. Bring them in. Get other people’s opinions. Share it with them. And most importantly, emotion is what matters. It’s an emotional journey. . . .' SETH: '. . . I remember one time we were filming a scene in Knocked Up and improvising, or maybe it was even 40-Year-Old Virgin, and the direction he screamed at us—because he screams direction from another room a lot, which is hilarious—was, ‘Less semen, more emotion!’ I think that is actually a good note to apply across the board.' TIM: 'You also mentioned that every character has to have a wound of some kind.' EVAN: 'That’s a big Judd-ism.' TF: Judd recommended they read The Art of Dramatic Writing by Lajos Egri (Evan: 'If you’re a writer, 60% of it is useless and 40% of it is gold.'), which Judd said was Woody Allen’s favorite writing book." -Tim Ferriss
"Eso es, por supuesto, lo que hicieron Jesús y muchas personas más." -Tim Ferriss
"deontologist believes that for something to be ethically correct, it must abide by a predefined set of moral rules or ideologies, and if an action breaks those rules then it is immoral, regardless of the outcome. A consequentialist believes that the moral value of an action purely depends on its outcome—the act itself doesn’t carry moral weight, all that matters is whether its consequences are good or bad overall." -Tim Ferriss
"»¿No tendría más sentido guardarse más bien lo contrario? ¿Recordar todas las veces que sí salió bien? ¿Todas las veces que asumimos un riesgo? ¿Todas las veces que logramos alegrarle a alguien el día? Cuando" -Tim Ferriss
"self-correcting business architecture" -Tim Ferriss
"Cincinnatus. He was an emperor in the Roman Empire. Cincinnati, the city, by the way, is named after him because he was a big idol of George Washington’s. He is a great example of success because he was asked to reluctantly step into power and become the emperor and to help, because Rome was about to get annihilated by all the wars and battles. He was a farmer. Powerful guy. He went and took on the challenge, took over Rome, took over the army, and won the war. After they won the war, he felt he’d done his mission and was asked to go and be the emperor, and he gave the ring back and went back to farming. He didn’t only do this once. He did it twice. When they tried to overthrow the empire from within, they asked him back and he came back. He cleaned up the mess through great, great leadership. He had tremendous leadership quality in bringing people together. And again, he gave the ring back and went back to farming." -Tim Ferriss
"una versión mayor de mí mismo?'." -Tim Ferriss
"«La felicidad es querer lo que ya tienes.»" -Tim Ferriss
"Even when everything is going terribly, and I have no reason to be confident, I just decide to be." -Tim Ferriss
"I use Intelligent Change’s bound 5-Minute Journal and suggest it for convenience, but you can practice in your own notebook. It’s fun and good therapy to review your p.m. 'amazing things' answers at least once a month." -Tim Ferriss
"can think, I can wait, I can fast." -Tim Ferriss
"Yogi Soothing Caramel Bedtime Tea:" -Tim Ferriss
"¿Qué caracteriza a un buen jefe?" -Tim Ferriss
"Most people can do absolutely awe-inspiring things,' he said. 'Sometimes they just need a little nudge." -Tim Ferriss
"I can’t give you a surefire formula for success, but I can give you a formula for failure: try to please everybody all the time." -Tim Ferriss
"The Nuttery NT065 Classic Seed Feeder, Extra Large." -Tim Ferriss
"For men, the 'boner or no boner' test is a simple but excellent indicator of sleep quality, hormonal health (GH, FSH, testosterone), circadian rhythm timing, and more." -Tim Ferriss
"Tres documentales que nos encantan a ambos son The King of Kong, Man on Wire y A State of Mind." -Tim Ferriss
"Lo que hay que tener (Anagrama, 2010), de Tom Wolfe" -Tim Ferriss
"If you are accustomed to working 50 weeks per year, the tendency, even after creating the mobility to take extended trips, will be to go nuts and see 10 countries in 14 days and end up a wreck. It’s like taking a starving dog to an all-you-can-eat buffet. It will eat itself to death." -Tim Ferriss
"Rebecca Solnit’s A Field Guide to Getting Lost" -Tim Ferriss
"You have to lift off the back foot while taking a step forward, or you will not be able to move ahead." -Tim Ferriss
"Dime algo que sea verdad y con lo que muy poca gente esté de acuerdo'.»" -Tim Ferriss
"Todos los teléfonos inteligentes dan problemas. Nosotros intentamos hacer felices a nuestros clientes'." -Tim Ferriss
"Make commitments in a high-energy state so that you can’t back out when you’re in a low-energy state." -Tim Ferriss
"Stay humble or get humbled." -Tim Ferriss
"Tor es un programa libre y multiplataforma que permite navegar por internet de forma anónima y ayuda a protegerse de redes de vigilancia." -Tim Ferriss
"The stupidity of people comes from having an answer for everything. The wisdom of the novel comes from having a question for everything." -Tim Ferriss
"The best way I can describe the feeling is a Finnish word, 'sisu'—the mental strength to continue to try even after you feel you’ve reached the limits of your abilities. I don’t think failure is sometimes part of the process—it always is. When you feel you can’t go on, know that you’re just getting started." -Tim Ferriss
"¿Cuál es el peor consejo que ves u oyes dar en tu sector o área de conocimiento?" -Tim Ferriss
"After years of repetitive work, you will often need to dig hard to find your passions, redefine your dreams, and revive hobbies that you let atrophy to near extinction. The goal is not to simply eliminate the bad, which does nothing more than leave you with a vacuum, but to pursue and experience the best in the world." -Tim Ferriss
"When you make a business, you’re making a little world where you control the laws. It doesn’t matter how things are done everywhere else. In your little world, you can make it like it should be." -Tim Ferriss
"Innovation is saying no to 1,000 things.' –Steve Jobs" -Tim Ferriss
"studying" -Tim Ferriss
"LA ESPERANZA NO ES UNA ESTRATEGIA. LA SUERTE NO ES UN FACTOR. EL MIEDO NO ES UNA OPCIÓN." -Tim Ferriss
"I am, and will continue to be, a humble student of you all." -Tim Ferriss
"That cliché you ignored like a throwaway fortune cookie? Suddenly it makes sense and moves mountains. Conversely, things you initially found enlightening might run their course, like a wonderful high school coach who needs to hand you off to a college coach for you to reach the next level." -Tim Ferriss
"10 por ciento mayor, no suele resultarte cien veces más difícil, pero la recompensa sí es cien veces mayor.»" -Tim Ferriss
"You can do everything you want to do. You just need foresight and patience." -Tim Ferriss
"si aporta algo al resto del mundo (¿es realmente significativo? ¿mejora el mundo?)" -Tim Ferriss
"The Standard Pace is for chumps." -Tim Ferriss
"Morning pages are, as author Julia Cameron puts it, 'spiritual windshield wipers." -Tim Ferriss
"Out on the edge you see all kinds of things you can’t" -Tim Ferriss
"didn’t tell me. And she said, ‘It works like this.’ 'All you do is you pick a goal and you write it down 15 times a day in some specific sentence form, like ‘I, Scott Adams, will become an astronaut,’ for example. And you do that every day." -Tim Ferriss
"»Esto me choca, porque me parece una falta de diversidad en nuestra concepción sobre qué tipo de cosas debería hacer la gente." -Tim Ferriss
"The following resources are all free and complement lessons in this book. Many of them provide jumping-off points to tools I now use on a daily or weekly basis. Links to all 'most gifted' and 'most recommended' books in Tribe of Mentors—tim.blog/ booklist" -Tim Ferriss
"Dsniff (rastreo de contraseñas)" -Tim Ferriss
"Several of my close friends in Silicon Valley sheepishly admitted that, of all the advice I’ve ever given in my books and podcasts, the ChiliPad had the biggest impact on their quality of life. Several others have said the same about honey + ACV, described next." -Tim Ferriss
"I think we need to teach kids two things: 1) how to lead, and 2) how to solve interesting problems. Because the fact is, there are plenty of countries on Earth where there are people who are willing to be obedient and work harder for less money than us. So we cannot out-obedience the competition. Therefore, we have to out-lead or out-solve the other people. . . ." -Tim Ferriss
"Toma la decisión de hacer cada día una cosa que te dé miedo." -Tim Ferriss
"When 99 percent of your life is your work, either you are really bad at what you do or you are completely off balance with the rest of your life; neither is something to be proud of." -Tim Ferriss
"¿Y, en ese caso, qué? ¿Cómo podría revertir los posibles daños?»." -Tim Ferriss
"Life’s Little Instruction Book" -Tim Ferriss
"The secret to winning any game lies in not trying too hard." -Tim Ferriss
"Like Chuck Close says, ‘Inspiration is for amateurs—the rest of us just show up and get to work. And the belief that things will grow out of the activity itself and that you will—through work—bump into other possibilities and kick open other doors that you would never have dreamt of if you were just sitting around looking for a great ‘art idea." -Tim Ferriss
"On a weekly and daily macro level, attempt to take Monday and/or Friday off, as well as leave work at 4 P.M. This will focus you to prioritize more effectively and quite possibly develop a social life." -Tim Ferriss
"I don’t care if you’re my brother—if we go play football, I’m gonna try to crack your head open. It doesn’t mean that I don’t love you. It doesn’t mean that I don’t respect you." -Tim Ferriss
"Diversity in counsel, unity in command.' –Cyrus the Great Founder of the Achaemenid Empire, known as the 'king of Persia" -Tim Ferriss
"Protection from stress serves only to erode my capacity [to handle it]. Stress exposure is the stimulus for all growth, and growth actually occurs during episodes of recovery. Avoiding stress, I have learned, will never provide the capacity that life demands of me." -Tim Ferriss
"As soon as I stopped fixating on the destination—where I wanted to hit the ball—and instead focused on what was in front of me—the point of impact—everything began to work." -Tim Ferriss
"Escribe sobre una época en la que supiste que habías hecho lo correcto." -Tim Ferriss
"«Si te remontas veinte o veinticinco años, me habría gustado saber que no había ninguna necesidad de esperar. Fui a la universidad. Fui a la facultad de Derecho. Trabajé en el mundo de la abogacía y de la banca, aunque no durante una cantidad terrible de tiempo. Pero hasta que inicié PayPal no me di cuenta por completo de que no tienes que esperar para emprender algo." -Tim Ferriss
"Grudges are for those who insist that they are owed something; forgiveness, however, is for those who are substantial enough to move on.'–Criss Jami American poet and author of Salomé: In Every Inch in Every Mile" -Tim Ferriss
"Do not seek to follow in the footsteps of the wise, instead, seek what they sought.' –Matsuo Bashō" -Tim Ferriss
"Bureaucracy is the art of making the possible impossible.'—Javier Pascual Salcedo" -Tim Ferriss
"The moment you start thinking someone else's gain is your loss, you limit yourself by thinking in terms of competition and shortages." -Tim Ferriss
"Malgastamos la vida con detalles… Simplifica, simplifica… Un hombre es rico en proporción a la cantidad de cosas de las que puede prescindir." -Tim Ferriss
"Never let a good crisis go to waste. It’s the universe challenging you to learn something new and rise to the next level of your potential.' Kristen Ulmer" -Tim Ferriss
"three times per day at scheduled times, he had to ask himself the following question: Am I being productive or just active?" -Tim Ferriss
"sometimes it pays to model the outliers, not flatten them into averages. This isn’t limited to business." -Tim Ferriss
"National Geographic Field Guide to the Birds of North America (Jon L. Dunn and Jonathan Alderfer) Engle, Dan: Mating in Captivity:" -Tim Ferriss
"Fasting before chemotherapy is definitely something that should be implemented in our oncology wards," -Tim Ferriss
"Every time people contact me, they say, ‘Look, I know you must be incredibly busy . . .’ and I always think, ‘No, I’m not.’ Because I’m in control of my time. I’m on top of it. ‘Busy,’ to me, seems to imply ‘out of control.’ Like, ‘Oh my God, I’m so busy. I don’t have any time for this shit!’ To me, that sounds like a person who’s got no control over their life." -Tim Ferriss
"Is the method effective?Have you ​narrowed down your material to the highest frequency? Is the method sustainable?Have you chosen a schedule and subject matter that you can stick with (or at least put up with) until reaching fluency? Will you actually swallow the pill you’ve prescribed yourself?" -Tim Ferriss
"Would you tell me, please, which way I ought to go from here?' 'That depends a good deal on where you want to get to,' said the Cat. 'I don’t much care where …' said Alice. 'Then it doesn’t matter which way you go,' said the Cat. —LEWIS CARROLL, Alice in Wonderland" -Tim Ferriss
"Robienie rzeczy nieważnej sprawia, że nie zrobisz czegoś ważnego. Zadanie wymagające czasu wcale nie staje się ważne tylko z tego powodu. Od tej chwili zapamiętaj sobie na zawsze, że to, co robisz, jest nieskończenie ważniejsze od tego, jak to robisz. Wydajność jest ważna, ale bezużyteczna, jeśli nie odnosi się do właściwych rzeczy." -Tim Ferriss
"Si os diera cien millones de dólares, ¿qué crearíais? Algo que no tuviera ningún sentido que otros copiaran'." -Tim Ferriss
"Qué es lo peor que puede pasar" -Tim Ferriss
"As Brandon Stanton put it, 'Sometimes you need to allow life to save you from what you want." -Tim Ferriss
"Macro" -Tim Ferriss
"usas dos o tres convicciones sustitutorias para avanzar. Esto" -Tim Ferriss
"If you’re 25 and announce you want to start a new circus, the response is different: Be realistic; become a lawyer or an accountant or a doctor, have babies, and raise them to repeat the cycle." -Tim Ferriss
"Mastery doesn't come from an infographic. What you know doesn't mean shit. What do yo do consistently?" -Tim Ferriss
"capacidad de hacer una sola cosa cada vez es un superpoder." -Tim Ferriss
"¡Si lo que hago suena razonable a la mayoría de la gente, entonces no estoy trabajando en un espacio lo bastante creativo e innovador!»" -Tim Ferriss
"Esto no significa ver los problemas, aceptarlos y dejar que degeneren." -Tim Ferriss
"He said the HP mantra was 'MBWA.' Translation: Managing By Wandering Around. It stands for being in touch, being human—and learning from everyone." -Tim Ferriss
"¿Qué pondrías en una valla publicitaria? «Nadie te debe nada.»" -Tim Ferriss
"and forward thinker. Genome, The Red Queen, The Origins of Virtue, The Rational Optimist—they’re all great." -Tim Ferriss
"If you want to walk an hour a day, don’t start with one hour. Choosing one hour is automatically building in the excuse of not having enough time. Commit to a fail-proof five minutes instead." -Tim Ferriss
"The objective is to create freedom of time and place and use both however you want." -Tim Ferriss
"«Persigue lo que te apasiona» es un consejo" -Tim Ferriss
"Some patients who suffer from significant LDL particle number increases on keto can reverse the trend by limiting saturated fat to fewer than 25 g and replacing the required fat calories with monounsaturated fats (e.g., macadamia nut oil, olive oil, limited avocado oil)." -Tim Ferriss
"como el glicerofosfato de magnesio GabaMag [fabricado por Trilogy Nutritional Supplements].»" -Tim Ferriss
"y en la microoptimización," -Tim Ferriss
"What we usually consider as impossible are simply engineering problems . . . there’s no law of physics preventing them.' –Michio Kaku Physicist and co-founder of string field theory" -Tim Ferriss
"There are some compounding pharmacists who will make you a gotu kola bioabsorbable cream. That works a lot faster. I would say if you can find a compounding pharmacist who will do that, and it’s a biologically active form, you could get the same results in about 2 to 3 months.' TF: I asked Charles about oral sources, and he suggested one dropperful of Gaia Herbs Gotu Kola Leaf liquid extract per day, which also improves tendon repair and cognitive function. 4" -Tim Ferriss
"«Siempre es difícil responder a eso, porque lleva implícita la pregunta de por qué no lo he hecho ya. Pero diría que cuando miro hacia mi yo más joven del pasado, era increíblemente convencional, increíblemente competitivo. Y, cuando eres muy competitivo, te vuelves muy bueno en aquello en lo que compites contra otras personas. Pero lo haces a cambio de perderte muchas otras cosas. »Si eres un jugador de ajedrez" -Tim Ferriss
"CHANGE YOUR WORDS, CHANGE YOUR WORLD" -Tim Ferriss
"If you stress-test the boundaries and experiment with the 'impossibles,' you’ll quickly discover that most limitations are a fragile collection of socially reinforced rules you can choose to break at any time." -Tim Ferriss
"#6—'Trying to get everyone to like you is a sign of mediocrity. You’ll avoid the tough decisions, and you’ll avoid confronting the people who need to be confronted.'—Colin Powell" -Tim Ferriss
"Annie’s latest book, Thinking in Bets: Making Smarter Decisions When You Don’t Have All the Facts, focuses on strategies for great decision-making." -Tim Ferriss
"If you go out there and start making noise and making sales, people will find you. Sales cure all. You can talk about how great your business plan is and how well you are going to do. You can make up your own opinions, but you cannot make up your own facts. Sales cure all." -Tim Ferriss
"You Want to Be Taken Seriously? Then Take Things Seriously" -Tim Ferriss
"If you want to go fast, go alone, but if you want to go far, you must go together." -Tim Ferriss
"Leg press × 20 reps Leg extension × 20 reps Squats × 20 reps (increase weight 20 lbs once you hit 20, then work back up to 20) (Two-minute rest) Leg curl × 12 reps Calf raises 3 × 15 Behind-neck pull-down × 10 Row × 10 Behind-neck pull-down × 10 (Two-minute rest) Lateral raise × 8 Press behind-the-neck × 10 (Two-minute rest) Curl × 8 Underhand chin plus weight for reps (Two-minute rest) Tricep extension × 22 Dips × 2213" -Tim Ferriss
"You limit angel investment funds to 10 to 15% or less of your liquid assets. I subscribe to the Nassim Taleb 'barbell' school of investment, which I implement as 90% in conservative asset classes like cash-like equivalents and the remaining 10% in speculative investments that can capitalize on positive 'black swans." -Tim Ferriss
"You are forced to shed artificial constraints, like shedding a skin, to realize that you had the ability to renegotiate your reality all along. It just takes practice" -Tim Ferriss
"It’s not what you look at that matters, it’s what you see.'—Henry David Thoreau" -Tim Ferriss
"There is very little luck involved. Winning your great job is about hard work, stamina, grit, ingenuity, and timing." -Tim Ferriss
"Do your own thinking independently. Be the chess player, not the chess piece.' –Ralph Charell" -Tim Ferriss
"Well, I decided to flip it around and travel when I was really young, when I had zero money. And I had experiences that, basically, even a billion dollars couldn’t have bought." -Tim Ferriss
"The Silver Spoon, the best-selling Italian cookbook of the last 50 years." -Tim Ferriss
"What is the opposite of happiness? Sadness? No." -Tim Ferriss
"Never automate something that can be eliminated, and never delegate something that can be automated or streamlined." -Tim Ferriss
"Lazy: A Manifesto" -Tim Ferriss
"No te preocupes por cuál será tu trabajo… Haz cosas que te interesen y, si las haces bien de verdad, encontrarás la manera de templarlas con una buena oportunidad de negocio'»." -Tim Ferriss
"bien. O podemos recordar el pasado en el que todo estaba bien. Así es como la gente sale de estas cosas." -Tim Ferriss
"but I know time really is zero-sum, and it’s the one thing that no one’s making more of." -Tim Ferriss
"Amelia Boone (TW: @ameliaboone, ameliabooneracing.com) has been called 'the Michael Jordan of obstacle course racing' (OCR) and is widely considered the world’s most decorated obstacle racer. Since the inception of the sport, she’s amassed more than 30 victories and 50 podiums. In the 2012 World’s Toughest Mudder competition, which lasts 24 hours (she covered 90 miles and ~300 obstacles), she finished second OVERALL out of more than 1,000 competitors, 80% of whom were male. The one person who beat her finished just 8 minutes ahead of her. Her major victories include the Spartan Race World Championship and the Spartan Race Elite Point Series, and she is the only three-time winner of the World’s Toughest Mudder (2012, 2014, and 2015). She won the 2014 championship 8 weeks after knee surgery. Amelia is also a three-time finisher of the Death Race, a full-time attorney at Apple, and she dabbles in ultra running (qualified for the Western States 100) in all of her spare time." -Tim Ferriss
"Dame seis horas para talar un árbol y dedicaré las cuatro primeras a afilar el hacha." -Tim Ferriss
"Descubrir el propósito o la misión que te guía en la vida" -Tim Ferriss
"Social media. That wonderland where we can flit from one superficial, jerkoff distraction to another, always remaining on the surface, never going deeper than an inch." -Tim Ferriss
"If you push the fear away, the only version of fear available to you will be its crazy, irrational, or contorted version. If you’re willing to feel it, and merge with it, its energy and wisdom will appear." -Tim Ferriss
"Brain.fm app" -Tim Ferriss
"En el fondo, el cerebro no es capaz de procesar todo en ese entorno, ni por asomo. Así que a lo máximo que llega es a aplicar esos pequeños filtros. Y" -Tim Ferriss
"Hi Tim, Patience. Far too soon to expect strength improvements. Strength improvements [for a movement like this] take a minimum of 6 weeks. Any perceived improvements prior to that are simply the result of improved synaptic facilitation. In plain English, the central nervous system simply became more efficient at that particular movement with practice. This is, however, not to be confused with actual strength gains. Dealing with the temporary frustration of not making progress is an integral part of the path towards excellence. In fact, it is essential and something that every single elite athlete has had to learn to deal with. If the pursuit of excellence was easy, everyone would do it. In fact, this impatience in dealing with frustration is the primary reason that most people fail to achieve their goals. Unreasonable expectations timewise, resulting in unnecessary frustration, due to a perceived feeling of failure. Achieving the extraordinary is not a linear process. The secret is to show up, do the work, and go home. A blue collar work ethic married to indomitable will. It is literally that simple. Nothing interferes. Nothing can sway you from your purpose. Once the decision is made, simply refuse to budge. Refuse to compromise. And accept that quality long-term results require quality long-term focus. No emotion. No drama. No beating yourself up over small bumps in the road. Learn to enjoy and appreciate the process. This is especially important because you are going to spend far more time on the actual journey than with those all too brief moments of triumph at the end. Certainly celebrate the moments of triumph when they occur. More importantly, learn from defeats when they happen. In fact, if you are not encountering defeat on a fairly regular basis, you are not trying hard enough. And absolutely refuse to accept less than your best. Throw out a timeline. It will take what it takes. If the commitment is to a long-term goal and not to a series of smaller intermediate goals, then only one decision needs to be made and adhered to. Clear, simple, straightforward. Much easier to maintain than having to make small decision after small decision to stay the course when dealing with each step along the way. This provides far too many opportunities to inadvertently drift from your chosen goal. The single decision is one of the most powerful tools in the toolbox." -Tim Ferriss
"Tom Peters is still reinventing himself.' His most recent book is The Little BIG Things: 163 Ways to Pursue Excellence." -Tim Ferriss
"Life is a continual process of arrival into who we are." -Tim Ferriss
"Bueno, tengo que animarme a mí mismo antes de que los demás me animen a mí'. Y pensé: 'Es una lógica fantástica. Buena respuesta'.»" -Tim Ferriss
"Quality Questions Create a Quality Life" -Tim Ferriss
"Many students come to me full of wonderful intentions hoping to change the world; they plan to spend their time helping the poor and disadvantaged. I tell them to first graduate and make a lot of money, and only then figure out how best to help those in need. Too often students can’t meaningfully help the disadvantaged now, even if it makes them feel good for trying to. I have seen so many former students in their late 30s and 40s struggling to make ends meet. They spent their time in college doing good rather than building their careers and futures. I warn students today to be careful how they use their precious time and to think carefully about when is the right time to help. It’s a well-worn cliché, but you have to help yourself before you help others. This is too often lost on idealistic students." -Tim Ferriss
"Success' need not be complicated. Just start with making 1,000 people extremely, extremely happy." -Tim Ferriss
"Quien trabaja mucho, no trabaja duro'." -Tim Ferriss
"No hay camino hacia la felicidad, la felicidad es el camino." -Tim Ferriss
"Not-to-do lists are often more effective than to-do lists for upgrading performance. The reason is simple. What you don't do determines what you can do." -Tim Ferriss
"Excitement is the more practical synonym for happiness, and it is precisely what you should strive to chase. It is the cure-all. When people suggest you follow your 'passion' or your 'bliss,' I propose that they are, in fact, referring to the same singular concept: excitement." -Tim Ferriss
"Greatness comes from humble beginnings; it comes from grunt work. It means you’re the least important person in the room—until you change that with results." -Tim Ferriss
"if we move beyond the education bubble that we’re living in today, the future will be one in which people can speak about these things more clearly." -Tim Ferriss
"Brené is also the New York Times best-selling author of Daring Greatly, The Gifts of Imperfection, Rising Strong, and Braving the Wilderness: The Quest for True Belonging and the Courage to Stand Alone." -Tim Ferriss
"the most important lesson of language learning: what you study is more important than how you study." -Tim Ferriss
"Language is infinitely expansive (much like cooking) and therefore horribly overwhelming if unfiltered." -Tim Ferriss
"If you remember nothing else, remember this: If you’re in your 40s or beyond and you care about living longer, which immediately puts you in a selection bias category, there’s an 80% chance you’re going to die of [one of] those four diseases. So any strategy toward increasing longevity has to be geared toward reducing the risk of those diseases as much as is humanly possible." -Tim Ferriss
"Una de las principales convicciones que me limitaban a mí era:" -Tim Ferriss
"Just the basic joy of smelling a cookie. It smells freaking great. [And it’s like the snowball.] You’re rewarded for being alive and in the moment. Smelling a cookie is not on behalf of some future state. It’s great in the moment, by itself, on behalf of nothing. And this is another thing back to art. Art for its own sake. Art and music and dance. Part of its poignancy is its purposelessness, and just delighting in a wacky fact of perhaps a meaningless universe and how remarkable that is. One way for all of us to live until we’re actually dead is to prize those little moments." -Tim Ferriss
"What you choose to work on, and who you choose to work with, are far more important than how hard you work." -Tim Ferriss
"see every day: 'Life shrinks or expands in proportion to one’s courage.' It’s a short reminder that success can usually be measured by the number of uncomfortable conversations we are willing to have, and by the number of uncomfortable actions we are willing to take." -Tim Ferriss
"Matt is one of the people I most try to emulate. He is exceptionally calm and logical under pressure. I’ve seen him face multiple data-center collapses with near-indifference, calmly sipping beer before another billiards shot. What should I tell a hugely influential journalist asking about it? 'Tell him we’re on it.' Then he sunk another ball. He’s the epitome of 'getting upset won’t help things.' I frequently ask myself 'What would Matt do?' or 'What would Matt say to me?" -Tim Ferriss
"As to methods, there may be a million and then some, but principles are few. The man who grasps principles can successfully select his own methods. —Ralph Waldo Emerson" -Tim Ferriss
"If you prioritize properly, there is no need to multitask. It is a symptom of 'task creep'—doing more to feel productive while actually accomplishing less. As stated, you should have, at most, two primary goals or tasks per day. Do them separately from start to finish without distraction. Divided attention will result in more frequent interruptions, lapses in concentration, poorer net results, and less gratification." -Tim Ferriss
"Me gusta analizar lo que Seth no hace tanto como lo que sí hace. Seth no tiene comentarios en su blog, no presta atención a las analíticas y no usa Twitter ni Facebook" -Tim Ferriss
"No aceptes las normas de tu tiempo" -Tim Ferriss
"Slow down and remember this: Most things make no difference. Being busy is a form of laziness—lazy thinking and indiscriminate action. Being overwhelmed is often as unproductive as doing nothing, and is far more unpleasant. Being selective—doing less—is the path of the productive. Focus on the important few and ignore the rest." -Tim Ferriss
"I took the shot.' It was invigorating, even exciting. 'Hey, when all the chips were on the line, you didn’t leave your future up to others, YOU TOOK YOUR SHOT.' Instantly I felt free and in control." -Tim Ferriss
"The word optimal is also bandied about with much fanfare. 'Your progesterone might fall within the normal range, but it’s not optimal.' The question here, seldom asked, should be: optimal for what?…’Optimal’ depends entirely on what your goal is, and that goal should be numerically precise. ‘Optimal’ is usable, but only when the ‘for what’ is clear." -Tim Ferriss
"Commit, within financial reason, to action instead of theory. Learn to confront the challenges of the real world, rather than resort to the protective womb of academia." -Tim Ferriss
"In Money: Master the Game, Ray Dalio elaborated for Tony: 'When people think they’ve got a balanced portfolio, stocks are three times more volatile than bonds. So when you’re 50/50, you’re really 90/10. You really are massively at risk, and that’s why when the markets go down, you get eaten alive. . . . Whatever asset class you invest in, I promise you, in your lifetime, it will drop no less than 50% and more likely 70% at some point. That is why you absolutely must diversify." -Tim Ferriss
"No te daré la felicidad', y la colocaría fuera de un gran centro comercial o de un concesionario de coches. ¿Sabes cuál sería un proyecto divertido de verdad? Comprar miles de loros y enseñarles a decir: 'No te dará la felicidad' y, luego, soltarlos por los centros comerciales y grandes superficies de todo el mundo. Ésa es mi misión en la vida. ¿Alguien más se apunta? Hagámoslo.»" -Tim Ferriss
"If you could have a gigantic billboard anywhere with anything on it, what would it say and why? 'Hard choices, easy life. Easy choices, hard life." -Tim Ferriss
"And also, it’s not about being good; it’s about being great. Because what I find, the older I get, is that a lot of people are good, and a lot of people are smart, and a lot of people are clever. But not a lot of people give you their soul when they perform." -Tim Ferriss
"«Estresado es el término que usa el triunfador cuando quiere decir miedo.» «Los perdedores reaccionan, los líderes se anticipan.» «La maestría no sale de una infografía. Lo que sabes no vale una mierda. ¿Qué es lo que haces de forma sistemática?»" -Tim Ferriss
"The student who elects to risk it all—which is nothing—to establish an online video rental service that delivers $5,000 per month in income from a small niche of Blu-ray aficionados, a two-hour-per-week side project that allows him to work full-time as an animal rights lobbyist." -Tim Ferriss
"cuanto más asociamos el dinero con la vida, más nos convencemos de que somos demasiado pobres para comprar nuestra libertad." -Tim Ferriss
"Cuanto más deprisa te mueves, más lento pasa el tiempo y más vives." -Tim Ferriss
"It’s not giving up to put your current path on indefinite pause." -Tim Ferriss
"Momentum: Chrome extension to help you focus." -Tim Ferriss
"hay una forma mejor de hacer las cosas. Eso se debe a una falta de humildad…" -Tim Ferriss
"Not my circus. Not my monkeys." -Tim Ferriss
"I realized that I had to let people leave my life, never to return. Every relationship I have in my life, from family and friends to business partners, must be a voluntary relationship. My wife can leave at any time. Family members can call me or not. Business partners can decide to move on, and it’s all okay. But the same is true on my end. If I say I’m ready to move on and someone doesn’t accept that, now we have a problem. I remember trying to move on from a very close friend because he was displaying behaviors I wasn’t comfortable with." -Tim Ferriss
"pero también es tener la sabiduría de dejar de explorar cuando encuentras algo en lo que vale la pena detenerse." -Tim Ferriss
"I would say, ‘Write everything down because it’s all very fleeting.’ I would say, ‘Keep a journal,’ which I have but I would have been more meticulous. Then I would say, ‘Don’t bow to the gatekeepers at the head of, in my case, show business, but at the gate of any business or any endeavor.’ Don’t bow to the gatekeepers because I think, in essence, there are no gatekeepers. You are the gatekeeper. . . . 'Don’t waste your time on marketing, just try to get better. . . . 'And also, it’s not about being good; it’s about being great. Because what I find, the older I get, is that a lot of people are good, and a lot of people are smart, and a lot of people are clever. But not a lot of people give you their soul when they perform." -Tim Ferriss
"lifestyle design," -Tim Ferriss
"There is nothing that the busy man is less busy with than living; there is nothing harder to learn.' –Seneca" -Tim Ferriss
"The phrase that I probably use the most to myself in my head is just one word: accept." -Tim Ferriss
"Nunca automatices lo que pueda eliminarse y nunca delegues algo que pueda automatizarse o racionalizarse." -Tim Ferriss
"The genuine love for reading itself, when cultivated, is a superpower. We live in the age of Alexandria, when every book and every piece of knowledge ever written down is a fingertip away." -Tim Ferriss
"Álbum para «activarse»: «Cold Day Memory», de Sevendust." -Tim Ferriss
"If you had a heart attack and had to work two hours per day, what would you do?" -Tim Ferriss
"Claves para escribir de Cheryl Strayed" -Tim Ferriss
"Underrated comedians to pay attention to Sebastian Maniscalco (totally" -Tim Ferriss
"Who is causing me stress disproportionate to the time I spend with them? What will happen if I simply stop interacting with these people? Fear-setting helps here." -Tim Ferriss
"After my first podcast with Dom, Whole Foods Markets around the country sold out of Wild Planet canned sardines." -Tim Ferriss
"And by 'unreasonably effective,' I mean something quite specific: Something is unreasonably effective if it seems to be useful outside the scope of its assumptions, outside the scope of the context in/for which it was developed." -Tim Ferriss
"We should remember the warning of the wise Grail knight in Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade: 'You must choose, but choose wisely, for as the true Grail will bring you life, the false Grail will take it from you.' Choose the highest-yield material and you can be an idiot and enjoy stunning success. Choose poorly and, as the Grail knight implied, you're screwed no matter what. You'll chase your own tail for years." -Tim Ferriss
"People-pleasing is a form of assholery," -Tim Ferriss
"started out basically imagining I was writing for a stadium full of replicas of myself—which made things easy because I already knew exactly what topics interested them, what writing style they liked, what their sense of humor was, etc." -Tim Ferriss
"What’s the worst that could happen? I encourage you to remember this often-neglected question as you begin to see the infinite possibilities outside of your current comfort zone. This period of collective panic is your big chance to dabble." -Tim Ferriss
"So I thought, ‘I’m always on time, and I always show up to things, so why don’t I do that for myself?’ So I put a handwritten note next to my bed that said—and it has three exclamation points—‘Mike!!! You have a meeting at Café Pedlar [where I was writing] at 7 a.m. with your mind,’ which is so stupid. It’s so embarrassing to admit, but it worked!" -Tim Ferriss
"I think it’s an analogy for that choice we all have in life: Are you going to fulfill your potential? Or, are you just going to give into the peer pressure of the moment and become nothing?" -Tim Ferriss
"Throw it all up on the wall and see what sticks." -Tim Ferriss
"don’t get daunted out of shooting for something you want, especially by potentially unfounded assumptions." -Tim Ferriss
"Person A: What happens when Bill Gates walks into a bar of 55 people? Person B: I don’t know. What? Person A: The 'average' net worth jumps to more than a billion dollars!2" -Tim Ferriss
"therapy for a condition called codependence, which is a neural wiring issue that tricks me into being unable to tolerate the discomfort, or perceived discomfort, of others." -Tim Ferriss
"He continued, 'That’s what you always say. When something is wrong or going bad, you just look at me and say, ‘Good.’' And I said, 'Well, I mean it. Because that is how I operate.' So I explained to him that when things are going bad, there’s going to be some good that will come from it. Oh, mission got cancelled? Good. We can focus on another one. Didn’t get the new high-speed gear we wanted? Good. We can keep it simple. Didn’t get promoted? Good. More time to get better. Didn’t get funded? Good. We own more of the company. Didn’t get the job you wanted? Good. Go out, gain more experience, and build a better résumé. Got injured? Good. Needed a break from training. Got tapped out? Good. It’s better to tap out in training than to tap out on the street. Got beat? Good. We learned. Unexpected problems? Good. We have the opportunity to figure out a solution." -Tim Ferriss
"Despeja el camino para la gente que tienes por encima de ti y, con el tiempo, acabarás abriéndote camino para ti mismo." -Tim Ferriss
"I used to resent obstacles along the path, thinking, 'If only that hadn’t happened life would be so good.' Then I suddenly realized, life is the obstacles. There is no underlying path. Our role here is to get better at navigating those obstacles. I strive to find calm, measured responses and to see hindrances as a chance to problem-solve. Often I fall back into old frustrations, but if I remind myself, this is a chance to step up, I can reframe conflicts as a chance to experiment with solutions." -Tim Ferriss
"Es autor de tres superventas entre los que figura The Power of Broke." -Tim Ferriss
"no tienes paciencia para leer algo, no tengas la arrogancia de comentarlo.»" -Tim Ferriss
"Anything worth doing is worth doing slowly.' –Mae West" -Tim Ferriss
"Somewhere along the line, we seem to have confused comfort with happiness." -Tim Ferriss
"Telling myself the victim story allows me to vent briefly. Once I’m over it, then I realize that if this meeting was so important to me, I should have made it clear to my girlfriend that I couldn’t be late, and let her know that if she was running late, I’d have to leave without her." -Tim Ferriss
"REMEMBER: it is impossible to evaluate, or even understand, anything that you cannot measure." -Tim Ferriss
"Perfection is achieved, not when there is nothing more to add, but when there is nothing left to take away. —Antoine de Saint-Exupéry" -Tim Ferriss
"Those of you who often over-commit or feel too scattered may appreciate a new philosophy I’m trying: If I’m not saying 'HELL YEAH!' about something, then I say no." -Tim Ferriss
"The older I get, the more time I spend—as a percentage of each day—on crafting better questions. In my experience, going from 1x to 10x, from 10x to 100x, and from 100x to (when Lady Luck really smiles) 1000x returns in various areas has been a product of better questions." -Tim Ferriss
"What is the book (or books) you’ve given most as a gift, and why? Or what are one to three books that have greatly influenced your life? Hands down, The War of Art by Steven Pressfield. This book has a magical, activating quality to it. It’s the essential no-bullshit guide for anyone who battles self-doubt or struggles to bring any important project to life. I reread it in full at least once a year. But it’s also the kind of book that you can flip to any page, read the passage, and find the exact jolt of inspiration you need to move ahead." -Tim Ferriss
"Why do you go away? So that you can come back. So that you can see the place you came from with new eyes and extra colors. And the people there see you differently, too. Coming back to where you started is not the same as never leaving.' –Terry Pratchett" -Tim Ferriss
"«La gran tentación de la gente es querer ser otra persona, quieren protagonizar la película de otro." -Tim Ferriss
"Understanding Media by Marshall McLuhan." -Tim Ferriss
"What are the top-three activities that I use to fill time to feel as though I’ve been productive? These are usually used to postpone more important actions (often uncomfortable because there is a chance of failure or rejection). Be honest with yourself, as we all do this on occasion. What are your crutch activities?" -Tim Ferriss
"Tao Te Ching by Lao Tzu (5 mentions) Atlas Shrugged by Ayn Rand (4) Sapiens by Yuval Noah Harari (4) Siddhartha by Hermann Hesse (4) The 4-Hour Workweek by Tim Ferriss (4) The Checklist Manifesto by Atul Gawande (4) Dune by Frank Herbert (3) Influence by Robert Cialdini (3)" -Tim Ferriss
"A) You should taste the food as you go, which a surprisingly small number of people do; and B) salt and olive oil actually are cheating and they’re secret weapons and they always work.' Audiogon" -Tim Ferriss
"What advice would you give to a smart, driven college student about to enter the 'real world'? Work harder than everyone else. Of course, that is easy when you love your job. But you might not love your first, or second, or even third job. That doesn’t matter. Work harder than everyone else. In order to get the job you love or start the company you want, you have to build your résumé, your reputation, and your bank account. The best way to do that: Outwork them all." -Tim Ferriss
"Siddhartha by Hermann Hesse is recommended by many guests in this book. There is one specific takeaway that Naval Ravikant (page 546) has reinforced with me several times on our long walks over coffee. The protagonist, Siddhartha, a monk who looks like a beggar, has come to the city and falls in love with a famous courtesan named Kamala. He attempts to court her, and she asks, 'What do you have?' A well-known merchant similarly asks, 'What can you give that you have learned?' His answer is the same in both cases, so I’ve included the latter story here. Siddhartha ultimately acquires all that he wants. Merchant: '. . . If you are without possessions, how can you give?' Siddhartha: 'Everyone gives what he has. The soldier gives strength, the merchant goods, the teacher instruction, the farmer rice, the fisherman fish.' Merchant: 'Very well, and what can you give? What have you learned that you can give?' Siddhartha: 'I can think, I can wait, I can fast.' Merchant: 'Is that all?' Siddhartha: 'I think that is all.' Merchant: 'And of what use are they? For example, fasting, what good is that?' Siddhartha: 'It is of great value, sir. If a man has nothing to eat, fasting is the most intelligent thing he can do. If, for instance, Siddhartha had not learned to fast, he would have had to seek some kind of work today, either with you, or elsewhere, for hunger would have driven him. But, as it is, Siddhartha can wait calmly. He is not impatient, he is not in need, he can ward off hunger for a long time and laugh at it. ' I think of Siddhartha’s answers often and in the following terms: 'I can think' → Having good rules for decision-making, and having good questions you can ask yourself and others. 'I can wait' → Being able to plan long-term, play the long game, and not misallocate your resources. 'I can fast' → Being able to withstand difficulties and disaster. Training yourself to be uncommonly resilient and have a high pain tolerance." -Tim Ferriss
"If you telescope out 10 years and know with 100% certainty that it is a path of disappointment and regret, and if we define risk as 'the likelihood of an irreversible negative outcome,' inaction is the greatest risk of all." -Tim Ferriss
"People don’t like being sold products, but we all like being told stories. Work" -Tim Ferriss
"What are bad recommendations you hear in your profession or area of expertise? 'Resting is weakness.' So many athletes have gotten into the mindset that more is better, which sets you up for burnout, injury, overtraining, and adrenal fatigue issues. While this mindset is common with athletes, it’s applicable to high achievers in all areas of life. Growth and gains come from periods of rest, yet 'rest' has become a four-letter word for high performers, and that needs to change." -Tim Ferriss
"That experience taught me to take agency in my own professional narratives, and that endings don’t have to be failures, especially when you choose to end a project or shut down a business." -Tim Ferriss
"For would-be entrepreneurs (he calls them 'wantrapreneurs'), or entrepreneurs who’ve grown a little too comfortable, Noah has a recommendation—ask for 10% off of your next few coffees. 'Go up to the counter and order coffee. If you don’t drink coffee, order tea. If you don’t drink tea, order water. I don’t care. Then just ask for 10% off. . . . The coffee challenge sounds kind of silly, but the whole point is that—in business and in life—you don’t have to be on the extreme, but you have to ask for things, and you have to put yourself out there." -Tim Ferriss
"Seem to Be a Verb by Buckminster Fuller. 48" -Tim Ferriss
"If you ever see Jimmy Fallon on the street, don’t say, ‘I love The Tonight Show!’ Just say something like: ‘What do you think of kiwi?’ and he won’t be able to not be like, ‘I love kiwi!" -Tim Ferriss
"Since all of them overestimated the competition, no one even showed up." -Tim Ferriss
"Warren Buffett is one of the most successful investors of the 20th century and a self-described 'value investor.' He aims to buy stocks at a discount (below intrinsic value), so that even with a worst-case scenario, he can do well. This discount is referred to as the 'margin of safety,' and it’s the bedrock principle of some of the brightest minds in the investing world (e.g., Seth Klarman). It doesn’t guarantee a good investment, but it allows room for error." -Tim Ferriss
"TO CREATE SOMETHING GREAT (OR EVENTUALLY HUGE), START EXTREMELY SMALL 'My suggestion is, whenever possible, ask yourself: What’s the smallest possible footprint I can get away with?" -Tim Ferriss
"Lonfrote Deep Molded Sleep Mask is the best for airplanes or anywhere else." -Tim Ferriss
"There is no way to happiness—happiness is the way.' –THICH NHAT HANH Vietnamese Buddhist monk and Nobel" -Tim Ferriss
"what if I asked 100+ brilliant people the very questions I want to answer for myself? Or somehow got them to guide me in the right direction?" -Tim Ferriss
"After four weeks, we tallied the results. His average monthly fat loss had gone from roughly 5 lbs to 18.75 lbs, a 275% increase. He’d tripled his fat loss by spending less than two minutes consuming a protein shake each morning. Astonishing? Not really. I’d seen the pattern in the data across hundreds of people: simple works, complex fails." -Tim Ferriss
"Quiet: The Power of Introverts in a World That Can’t Stop Talking, Frank Partnoy’s Wait: The Art and Science of Delay, Linda Kaplan-Thaler’s The Power of Nice: How to Conquer the Business World with Kindness and The Power of Small: Why Little Things Make All the Difference, and Cathy O’Neil’s Weapons of Math Destruction: How Big Data Increases Inequality and Threatens Democracy." -Tim Ferriss
"Being busy is not the same as being productive. In fact, being busy is a form of laziness -- lazy thinking and indiscriminate action." -Tim Ferriss
"Si seguimos desarrollando la tecnología sin inteligencia o prudencia, puede que nuestro sirviente acabe siendo nuestro verdugo." -Tim Ferriss
"Álbum para «fluir»: «Gran Hotel Buenos Aires», de Federico Aubele." -Tim Ferriss
"In order to ‘have’ you must ‘do,’ and in order to ‘do’ you must ‘be.’' Terry Crews" -Tim Ferriss
"What is the ultimate quantification of success? For me, it’s not how much time you spend doing what you love. It’s how little time you spend doing what you hate. And this woman spent all day, every day doing what she loved.' Spirit animal: Rhino Morgan Spurlock Morgan Spurlock (TW: @MorganSpurlock, morganspurlock.com) is an Oscar-nominated documentary filmmaker based in New York." -Tim Ferriss
"Flexibility' can be passive, whereas 'mobility' requires that you can demonstrate strength throughout the entire range of motion, including the end ranges." -Tim Ferriss
"Students should go to college with an open mind. I advise them to ignore all the absolutism around them, both in terms of ideas and people. When they’re told that some people or ideas are wrong, hateful, or offensive, a light bulb should go off in their heads. That is the moment their curiosity should be piqued to find out for themselves whether it is indeed a 'bad' thing. Adopting an attitude of critical thinking is most crucial in learning anything." -Tim Ferriss
"I Seem to Be a Verb, de Buckminster Fuller. Cuarenta" -Tim Ferriss
"One must find the highest-frequency material." -Tim Ferriss
"Golden Rule #1: Each delegated task must be both time-consuming and well-defined. If you’re running around like a chicken with its head cut off and assign your VA to do that for you, it doesn’t improve the order of the universe. Golden Rule #2: On a lighter note, have some fun with it. Have someone in Bangalore or Shanghai send e-mails to friends as your personal concierge to set lunch dates or similar basics. Harass your boss with odd phone calls in strong accents from unknown numbers. Being effective doesn’t mean being serious all the time. It’s fun being in control for a change. Get a bit of repression off your chest so it doesn’t turn into a complex later." -Tim Ferriss
"* Out of more than 4,600 articles on Brain Pickings, what are Maria’s starting recommendations? 'The Shortness of Life: Seneca on Busyness and the Art of Living Wide Rather Than Living Long' 'How to Find Your Purpose and Do What You Love' '9 Learnings from 9 Years of Brain Pickings' Anything about Alan Watts: 'Alan Watts has changed my life." -Tim Ferriss
"Rave reviews of the books Sapiens, Poor Charlie’s Almanack, Influence, and Man’s Search for Meaning, among others" -Tim Ferriss
"The biggest mistake you can make is to accept the norms of your time.’ Not accepting norms is where you innovate, whether it’s with technology, with books, with anything. So, not accepting the norm is the secret to really big success and changing the world." -Tim Ferriss
"If you don’t make mistakes, you’re not working on hard enough problems. And that’s a big mistake. —FRANK WILCZEK, 2004 Nobel Prize winner in physics" -Tim Ferriss
"#3—Do 5 to 10 Reps of Something (<1 minute)" -Tim Ferriss
"People-Pleasing Is a Form of Assholery' Whitney wrote, produced and starred in Whitney, which aired on NBC from 2011 to 2013: 'I was so apologetic and afraid of people not liking me, that . . . [I] slowed down the writing process and confused employees. In the room, people would pitch jokes, and I would just say ‘yes’ to all of them, because I didn’t want to hurt anyone’s feelings. I’d have to go later and change them, and then—all of a sudden—the script comes out and their jokes aren’t there, and they feel betrayed and lied to. 'When I first went in to Al-Anon [support group for addiction] I heard someone say, ‘People-pleasing is a form of assholery,’ which I just loved, because you’re not pleasing anybody. You’re just making them resentful because you’re being disingenuous, and you’re also not giving them the dignity of their own experience and [assuming] they can’t handle the truth. It’s patronizing.' TF: After this conversation with Whitney I reread Lying by Sam Harris. The types of 'white lies' Whitney describes can be hugely destructive, and Sam makes a compelling case for stopping the use of a wide spectrum of half-truths." -Tim Ferriss
"true fulfillment comes from love of the process." -Tim Ferriss
"I decided a long time ago that I would only bet on myself." -Tim Ferriss
"Soy anciano y he pasado gran cantidad de preocupaciones, pero la mayoría de ellas no ha llegado a materializarse jamás." -Tim Ferriss
"2,000–3,000 PEOPLE, NOT GENERAL FAME This is one of the messages Eric burned into my brain last year, and it’s guided many decisions since. We were sitting in a large soaking tub talking about the world (as mathematicians and human guinea pigs do in San Francisco), and he said: 'General fame is overrated. You want to be famous to 2,000 to 3,000 people you handpick.' I’m paraphrasing, but the gist is that you don’t need or want mainstream fame. It brings more liabilities than benefits. However, if you’re known and respected by 2–3K high-caliber people (e.g., the live TED audience), you can do anything and everything you want in life. It provides maximal upside and minimal downside. GOOD QUESTION TO ASK YOURSELF WHEN TACKLING INCUMBENT COMPANIES (OR IDEAS) 'How is their bread buttered?' 'What is it that they can’t afford to say or think?' 'CONSENSUS' SHOULD SET OFF YOUR SPIDEY SENSE 'Somehow, people have to learn that consensus is a huge problem. There’s no ‘arithmetic consensus’ because it doesn’t require a consensus. But there is a Washington consensus. There is a climate consensus. In general, consensus is how we bully people into pretending that there’s nothing to see. ‘Move along, everyone.’ I think that, in part, you should learn that people don’t naturally come to high levels of agreement unless something is either absolutely clear, in which case consensus isn’t present, or there’s an implied threat of violence to livelihood or self.' TF: I start nearly every public presentation I give with a slide that contains one quote: 'Whenever you find yourself on the side of the majority, it’s time to pause and reflect.' —Mark Twain. This isn’t just for my audience. It’s also a reminder for me." -Tim Ferriss
"you should have, at most, two primary goals or tasks per day. Do them separately from start to finish without distraction." -Tim Ferriss
"In a world where we emphasize the creation of new products through rapid iteration and experimentation, we often forget to step back and make sure that the future we are racing to is one we truly want to create." -Tim Ferriss
"«La frustración es una cuestión de expectativas.»" -Tim Ferriss
"I’ve always treated the world as my classroom, soaking up lessons and stories to fuel my path forward. I hope you do the same. The worst thing you can ever do is think that you know enough." -Tim Ferriss
"Pero si quieres algo extraordinario tienes dos caminos: 1) Ser el mejor en una cosa específica. 2) Ser muy bueno (entre el 25 por ciento mejor) en dos o más cosas." -Tim Ferriss
"Mastery doesn’t come from an infographic. What you know doesn’t mean shit. What do you do consistently?" -Tim Ferriss
"¿Cuál es el peor consejo que ves u oyes dar en tu negocio o en tu especialidad?" -Tim Ferriss
"«Leer, después de una cierta edad, distrae demasiado a la mente de su actividad creativa. Cualquiera que lea demasiado y utilice poco su propio cerebro cae en hábitos de pereza mental.» ALBERT EINSTEIN" -Tim Ferriss
"Anger is often what pain looks like when it shows itself in public." -Tim Ferriss
"que vale la pena detenerse." -Tim Ferriss
"para afrontar cualquier posible contingencia»." -Tim Ferriss
"lack of time is actually lack of priorities. Take" -Tim Ferriss
"Buffett’s investments]?' MARC: 'No. No. Absolutely not. Furthermore, every time I hear a story like See’s Candies, I want to go find the new scientific superfood candy company that’s going to blow them right out of the water. We’re wired completely opposite in that sense. Basically, he’s betting against change. We’re betting for change. When he makes a mistake, it’s because something changes that he didn’t expect. When we make a mistake, it’s because something doesn’t change that we thought would." -Tim Ferriss
"And specialize—the great human achievement is to specialize as a producer of goods or services so that you can diversify as a consumer. Self-sufficiency is another word for poverty." -Tim Ferriss
"The War of Art by Steven Pressfield. This book has a magical, activating quality" -Tim Ferriss
"I’m up and getting after it by 4:45. I like to have that psychological win over the enemy. For me, when I wake up in the morning—and I don’t know why—I’m thinking about the enemy and what they’re doing. I know I’m not on active duty anymore, but it’s still in my head: that there’s a guy in a cave somewhere, he’s rocking back and forth, and he’s got a machine gun in one hand and a grenade in the other. He’s waiting for me, and we’re going to meet. When I wake up in the morning, I’m thinking to myself: What can I do to be ready for that moment, which is coming? That propels me out of bed." -Tim Ferriss
"I’ve got some athletes who do best on 70% carbs, 20% protein, 10% fat. But they deserve their carbohydrates. They’ve got a great pancreas, they’re in- sulin-sensitive, blah, blah, blah, they’ve got a lot of muscle mass. But some athletes, they’re allowed 10 licks of a dried prune every 6 months. That’s all they deserve and that’s all they’ll get. And after 6 months, they’re actually al- lowed to look at calendar pictures of cakes once a week." -Tim Ferriss
"Pareto’s Law can be summarized as follows: 80% of the outputs result from 20% of the inputs." -Tim Ferriss
"Be in a hurry to learn, not in a hurry to get validation." -Tim Ferriss
"So start by writing them down. Dig into your fears, and you’ll often find that the mental monsters are harmless scarecrows. Sometimes, it just takes a piece of paper and a few questions to create a breakthrough." -Tim Ferriss
"Most people go through life and never develop strong views on things, or specifically go along and buy into the consensus. One of the things I think you want to look for as both a founder and as an investor is things that are out of consensus, something very much opposed to the conventional wisdom. . . . Then, if you’re going to start a company around" -Tim Ferriss
"Tell to Win: Connect, Persuade, and Triumph with the Hidden Power of Story, which was an instant #1 New York Times bestseller." -Tim Ferriss
"Out of more than 4,600 articles on Brain Pickings, what are Maria’s starting recommendations? 'The Shortness of Life: Seneca on Busyness and the Art of Living Wide Rather Than Living Long' 'How to Find Your Purpose and Do What You Love' '9 Learnings from 9 Years of Brain Pickings' Anything about Alan Watts: 'Alan Watts has changed my life. I’ve written about him quite a bit." -Tim Ferriss
"«En una negociación gana quien tiene menos que perder»." -Tim Ferriss
"2. I’m just caging my monkey mind on paper so I can get on with my fucking day." -Tim Ferriss
"If you could have a gigantic billboard anywhere with anything on it, what would it say and why? Are there any quotes you think of often or live your life by? The quote I live by is 'By any means necessary.' It’s from Malcolm X. When I was in college, I read The Autobiography of Malcolm X and was blown away by the determination and commitment that Malcolm X had to his people and to fight against a system that was not designed to support or help him or his people. He really made strides in bringing civil rights to the forefront of the American people. It was a very moving book, and I remember reading it a few times. As I started my label, I wanted to create a slogan with this concept, and I wanted to use this idea of 'by any means necessary' as a way of life. When we started [my label] Dim Mak back in 1996, I didn’t have any money to launch the label, as I only had $ 400 to my name. So I would find any way possible to make sure these records came out. I did whatever I could with the tools in front of me with no excuses and no complaining. You gotta find a way to get your project done; you gotta think outside the box. My team also lives and works by the mantra of 'by any means necessary,' and because of that, we can get things done that others might not. I feel lucky to have such a great team that will share this way of life with me." -Tim Ferriss
"The struggle ends when the gratitude begins.' [Quote attributed to Neale Donald Walsch" -Tim Ferriss
"City of Thieves by David Benioff" -Tim Ferriss
"El ratón Pérez puede salvarte la vida (o a tus hijos) La doctora Patrick me introdujo en el uso de los dientes para almacenar células madre. Si en algún momento te quitan las muelas del juicio o a tus hijos se les caen los dientes de leche (los cuales tienen una concentración especialmente alta de células madre de pulpa dental) plantéate recurrir a una empresa como StemSave o National Dental Pulp Laboratory para conservarlos con la finalidad de usarlos más adelante." -Tim Ferriss
"Proteins *Egg whites with 1–2 whole eggs for flavor (or, if organic, 2–5 whole eggs, including yolks) *Chicken breast or thigh *Beef (preferably grass-fed) *Fish Pork Legumes *Lentils (also called 'dal' or 'daal') *Black beans Pinto beans Red beans Soybeans Vegetables *Spinach *Mixed vegetables (including broccoli, cauliflower, or any other cruciferous vegetables) *Sauerkraut, kimchee (full explanation of these later in 'Damage Control') Asparagus Peas Broccoli Green beans Eat as much as you like of the above food items, but keep it simple." -Tim Ferriss
"Peter expands: 'I think of problems as gold mines. The world’s biggest problems are the world’s biggest business opportunities." -Tim Ferriss
"No me preocupará perder un amigo si tengo cien, pero si tengo dos amigos sí me preocuparé. No me preocupará perder mi trabajo si mi jefe número uno me despide porque tengo miles de jefes en periódicos de todas partes." -Tim Ferriss
"«Es más bien una convicción: la vida siempre sucede para nosotros, no a nosotros. De ti depende que encuentres sus ventajas. Si lo haces, la vida es fabulosa.»" -Tim Ferriss
"Tara by Maria Popova (page 406), who said, '[Tara] has changed my life, perhaps more profoundly than anybody in my life.' I then read Tara’s first book, Radical Acceptance," -Tim Ferriss
"I don’t understand what you’re saying,’ and then I would try to find another way of saying it, and a whole hour would pass and I could not get past the first sentence. He would say, ‘Well, the hour’s over. Let’s meet next week.’ This must have happened for months, and at some point I started thinking, ‘I don’t know why people think this guy’s so smart.’ Later, [I understood what he was doing]. This is basically just an act. Essentially, I was being unclear about what I was saying, and I did not fully understand what I was trying to explain to him. He was just drilling deeper and deeper and deeper until I realized, every time, that there was actually something I didn’t have clear in my mind. He really taught me to think deeply about things, and I think that’s something I have not forgotten." -Tim Ferriss
"As Bruce Lee said, 'Adapt what is useful, reject what is useless, and add what is specifically your own." -Tim Ferriss
"Against Malaria Foundation (AMF) Deworm the World Initiative Give Directly" -Tim Ferriss
"Wait But Why? [written by Tim Urban] They have a chart of the weeks of your life. I have a wall chart of boxes representing every year of my life: ten years across and nine rows down. Then things are plotted on it, like average life expectancy in the U.S. I always thought it was kind of cool, because it puts time into a visual format, and I’m a visual person." -Tim Ferriss
"We create stress for ourselves because you feel like you have to do it. You have to. I don’t feel that anymore. —OPRAH WINFREY," -Tim Ferriss
"I promise, if you just tell the truth and get your heart broken as a comedian, you will have a house." -Tim Ferriss
"Poor Charlie’s Almanac: The Wit and Wisdom of Charles T. Munger (Charles T. Munger)," -Tim Ferriss
"Trump suele utilizar para neutralizar a los periodistas, que es la rápida interjección: «Compruebe sus datos, [inserta aquí el nombre del periodista]»." -Tim Ferriss
"Life shrinks or expands in proportion to one’s courage." -Tim Ferriss
"That’s a simple example, you say, but what if you need to learn to do something your friends haven’t done? Like, say, sell a book to the world’s largest publisher as a first-time author? Funny you should ask. There are two approaches I used: 1. I picked one book out of dozens based on reader reviews and the fact that the authors had actually done what I wanted to do. If the task is how-to in nature, I only read accounts that are 'how I did it' and autobiographical. No speculators or wannabes are worth the time. 2. Using the book to generate intelligent and specific questions, I contacted 10 of the top authors and agents in the world via e-mail and phone, with a response rate of 80%." -Tim Ferriss
"1. Have I decided on a single meaning for each term in this question? 2. Can an answer to this question be acted upon to improve things?" -Tim Ferriss
"The most important trick to be happy is to realize that happiness is a choice that you make and a skill that you develop. You choose to be happy, and then you work at it." -Tim Ferriss
"Anticipate, don’t react." -Tim Ferriss
"In a real sense, to grow in life, I must be a seeker of stress." -Tim Ferriss
"The main thing is to keep the main thing the main thing." -Tim Ferriss
"Christopher Carmichael, 'You are 99 years old, you are on your deathbed, and you have a chance to come back to right now: what would you do?" -Tim Ferriss
"I’m no superhero. I’m not even a consistent 'normal." -Tim Ferriss
"Integrity is the only path where you will never get lost." -Tim Ferriss
"track of how many times we’ve been rejected. Keeping track of how many times it didn’t work. Keeping track of all the times someone has broken our heart or double-crossed us or let us down. Of course, we can keep track of those things, but why? Why keep track of them? Are they making us better? 'Wouldn’t it make more sense to keep track of the other stuff? To keep track of all the times it worked?" -Tim Ferriss
"«¿Qué cosa hace usted y el mundo no se da cuenta de que es un negociazo de la hostia?»." -Tim Ferriss
"Ramit builds checklists for as many business processes as possible, which he organizes using software called Basecamp. Google 'entrepreneurial bus count' for a good article on why checklists can save your startup." -Tim Ferriss
"You can’t make a lousy charity good by having a low overhead.' TF: Will introduced me to GiveWell.org, a site that conducts in-depth research to determine how much nonprofits and foundations actually accomplish (in terms of lives saved, lives improved, etc.) per dollar spent. This avoids the problem of most other charity 'rankers,' which look at low admin and overhead costs as a flawed proxy for 'efficient.' Of course, if a charity is doing the wrong things, being financially lean means nothing, hence Will’s quote. It’s all about real-world results. According to GiveWell.org in 2016, three of the most effective and impactful charities are: Against Malaria Foundation Deworm the World Initiative Give Directly *" -Tim Ferriss
"Empieza pequeño, pero piensa a lo grande" -Tim Ferriss
"I don’t care why people pick up cookbooks. I’m much more interested in why they put them down." -Tim Ferriss
"Reality is merely an illusion,albeit a very persistent one. —ALBERT" -Tim Ferriss
"A company is stronger if it is bound by love rather than by fear. … If the employees come first, then they’re happy." -Tim Ferriss
"You learn the secret of this business, which is there’s no secret. Be yourself." -Tim Ferriss
"Slow down and remember this: Most things make no difference. Being busy is a form of laziness—lazy thinking and indiscriminate action" -Tim Ferriss
"¿Y en qué consiste el estudio emocional de una idea?" -Tim Ferriss
"Try it—write down a precise sequence of curse words that takes 7 to 10 seconds to read. Then, before a creative work session of some type, read it quickly and loudly like you’re casting a spell or about to go postal. Eric also finds late nights, around 3 a.m., to be ideal for deep creative work." -Tim Ferriss
"Valora el coste de no actuar," -Tim Ferriss
"When deal-making, ask yourself: Can I trade a short-term, incremental gain for a potential longer-term, game-changing upside? Is there an element here that might be far more valuable in 5 to 10 years (e.g., ebook rights 10 years ago)?" -Tim Ferriss
"Ordinarily he was insane, but he had lucid moments when he was merely stupid. —HEINRICH HEINE, German critic and poet" -Tim Ferriss
"If you are reading an article that sucks, put it down and don’t pick it back up. If you go to a movie and it’s worse than Matrix III, get the hell out of there before more neurons die. If you’re full after half a plate of ribs, put the damn fork down and don’t order dessert." -Tim Ferriss
"Make Every Man Want You: How to Be So Irresistible You’ll Barely Keep from Dating Yourself!," -Tim Ferriss
"The danger of maps, capable assistants, and planning is that you may end up living your life as planned. If you do, your potential cannot possibly exceed your expectations." -Tim Ferriss
"Potencia tus habilidades en lugar de corregir tus debilidades" -Tim Ferriss
"Life favors the specific ask and punishes the vague wish. So, here 'investing' means to allocate resources (e.g., money, time, energy) to improve quality of life." -Tim Ferriss
"I’ve learned to envision the ideal end to any project before I begin it now—even the best gigs don’t last forever. Nor should they." -Tim Ferriss
"therefore an investment like that is unbeatable. Buildings that I would buy for $500K within the year were $800K and I put only maybe $100K down, so you made 300% on your money. . . . I quickly developed and traded up my buildings and bought more apartment buildings and office buildings on Main Street down in Santa Monica and so on. . . . I benefited from [a magic decade] and I became a millionaire from my real estate investments." -Tim Ferriss
"Estar ocupado es una forma de vagancia: pereza para pensar y acción indiscriminada. Estar ocupado sirve casi siempre para disfrazar el aplazamiento de unas pocas tareas muy importantes pero incómodas." -Tim Ferriss
"Kettlebell: Simple & Sinister." -Tim Ferriss
"Con cada una de esas tareas plantéate esta pregunta: «Si esto fuera lo único que hiciera en este día, ¿me daría por satisfecho por hoy?»." -Tim Ferriss
"It is imperative that you learn to ignore or redirect all information and interruptions that are irrelevant, unimportant, or unactionable. Most are all three." -Tim Ferriss
"Siddhartha: 'I can think, I can wait, I can fast." -Tim Ferriss
"Start with Why by Simon Sinek." -Tim Ferriss
"El capitalismo premia lo que es raro y a la vez valioso." -Tim Ferriss
"Next was learning that 4,000 calories equals about a pound of fat. I know that’s an oversimplification, but that’s okay. Oversimplifying is one of the next things I’ll mention as a tool. But if 4,000 is roughly a pound of fat, and my BMR makes it pretty easy to shave off some huge number of calories per day, it suddenly becomes very clear how to lose lots of weight without even doing any exercise. Add in some calculations on how many calories you burn doing, say, 30 minutes of exercise and you can pretty quickly come up with a formula that looks something like: BMR = 2,900 Actual intake = 1,800 Deficit from diet = BMR – actual intake = 1,100 Burned from 30 minutes cardio = 500 Total deficit = deficit from diet – burned from 30 minutes cardio = 1,600" -Tim Ferriss
"The Top Five Regrets of the Dying by Bronnie Ware" -Tim Ferriss
"Is There a Quote That Guides Your Life? 'It’s a belief: Life is always happening for us, not to us. It’s our job to find out where the benefit is. If we do, life is magnificent." -Tim Ferriss
"If you had a second heart attack and had to work two hours per week, what would you do? 3. If you had a gun to your head and had to stop doing ⅘ of different time-consuming activities, what would you remove?" -Tim Ferriss
"aunque en realidad responde a una completa y profunda falta de prioridades y de respeto por uno mismo.»" -Tim Ferriss
"Where can you create a 'red team' in your life to stress-test your most treasured beliefs?" -Tim Ferriss
"A great amount of software will make outbound connections to the Internet, typically for legitimate purposes, though not necessarily. If you wish to prevent or at least learn when an application is doing this, you can use NetLimiter on Windows or Little Snitch on OS X to detect and decide to allow or block when a specific application is connecting out, and learn where it’s connecting to. You can use Wireshark for further analysis, mentioned below. You can use BlockBlock on OS X, which notifies you if a program is trying to install itself to run upon startup, even when it’s hiding itself in a nook or cranny of your system, and you have the clear option to block it if you wish. Some viruses or malware or simply annoying software will try to do this and you can decide if it should run at startup or not." -Tim Ferriss
"»Creo que debemos enseñar a los chicos dos cosas: 1) a dirigir, y 2) a resolver problemas interesantes. Porque la cuestión es que hay un montón de países en la Tierra con gente dispuesta a ser obediente y a trabajar más por menos dinero que nosotros." -Tim Ferriss
"Una vez que percibes el dolor agudo de las convicciones limitadoras que tienes en la actualidad, usas dos o tres convicciones sustitutorias para avanzar." -Tim Ferriss
"a democratic nation can limp along even when its chief of state is widely understood to be a lazy, bumbling simpleton. Fallible leadership is the only kind of leadership any nation ever has. Since totalitarians cannot afford to admit this, their domains start and end in fantasy" -Tim Ferriss
"La combinación del GST con AcroYoga (capítulo AcroYoga: «Thai and fly») ha remodelado mi cuerpo" -Tim Ferriss
"Live the questions so that, one day, you will live yourself into the answers. . . ." -Tim Ferriss
"There are no radical creative choices that do not carry with them an inherent risk of equally radical failure. You cannot do anything great without aggressively courting your own limits and the limits of your ideas." -Tim Ferriss
"Yo uso VeraCrypt (ver" -Tim Ferriss
"The elites sneer at commerce as tawdry, but it’s what gives people what they want and need, and pays for everything else, including the luxury of art." -Tim Ferriss
"Whether or not you 'need' someone at this point is immaterial. It is an exercise." -Tim Ferriss
"Follow What Angers You" -Tim Ferriss
"Happiness is a choice you make and a skill you develop. The mind is just as malleable as the body. We spend so much time and effort trying to change the external world, other people, and our own bodies, all the while accepting ourselves the way we were programmed in our youths. We accept the voice that talks to us in our head all the time as the source of all truth. But all of it is malleable, every day is new, and memory and identity are burdens from the past that prevent us from living freely in the present." -Tim Ferriss
"To have an uncommon lifestyle, you need to develop the uncommon habit of making decisions, both for yourself and for others." -Tim Ferriss
"la clave en la vida es, por un lado, tener el valor de adentrarse en lo desconocido," -Tim Ferriss
"The completed jigsaw puzzle is much greater than the sum of its parts." -Tim Ferriss
"authorsusancain quietrev.com SUSAN CAIN is the co-founder of Quiet Revolution and the author of the bestsellers Quiet Power: The Secret Strengths of Introverted Kids, and Quiet: The Power of Introverts in a World That Can’t Stop Talking, which has been translated into 40 languages and been on the New York Times bestseller list for more than four years. Quiet was named the best book of the year by Fast Company magazine, which also named Susan one of its 'Most Creative People in Business.' Susan is the co-founder of the Quiet Schools Network and the Quiet Leadership Institute, and her writing has appeared in The New York Times, The Atlantic, The Wall Street Journal, and other publications. Her TED Talk has been viewed more than 17 million times and was named by Bill Gates as one of his all-time favorite talks." -Tim Ferriss
"The reasonable man adapts himself to the world; the unreasonable one persists in trying to adapt the world to himself." -Tim Ferriss
"análisis más completo, puedes usar Wireshark," -Tim Ferriss
"Generally, what all of this comes down to is whether you are on offense or defense. I think that as you survey the challenges in your lives, it’s just: Which of those did you assign yourself, and which of those are you doing to please someone else? Your inbox is a to-do list to which anyone in the world can add an action item. I needed to get out of my inbox and back to my own to-do list." -Tim Ferriss
"Success should not be measured by financial gain; true success is doing something you love for a living." -Tim Ferriss
"Never Audition—Own or Create a Unique Niche" -Tim Ferriss
"So at another lull in the conversation, I say, ‘We’re gonna run, Floyd. I don’t wanna be in your way,’ and he says, ‘Hunter, I’m telling you: I’m just chilling, watching the game.’ I said, ‘You’re not wound up about this at all?’ and he goes, ‘Why would I be wound up? I’m either ready or I’m not. Worrying about it right now ain’t gonna change a damn thing. Right? Whatever’s gonna happen is gonna happen. I’ve either done everything I can to be ready for this, or I haven’t.’' TF:" -Tim Ferriss
"This is the subject of the book Thinking, Fast and Slow by Daniel Kahneman. There’s the instant, unconscious, automatic thinking and then there’s the slower, conscious, rational, deliberate thinking. I’m really, really into the slower thinking, breaking my automatic responses to the things in my life and slowly thinking through a more deliberate response instead. Then for the things in life where an automatic response is useful, I can create a new one consciously. 'What if you asked, ‘When you think of the word 'successful,' who’s the third person that comes to mind? Why are they actually more successful than the first person that came to mind?" -Tim Ferriss
"Whenever there is any doubt, there is no doubt.' The line is from the inimitable David Mamet, a quote from Ronin, one of my all-time favorite movies." -Tim Ferriss
"The Meaning of Culture by John Cowper Powys," -Tim Ferriss
"I think you should try to slay dragons. I don’t care how big the opponent is. We read about and admire the people who did things that were basically considered to be impossible. That’s what makes the world a better place to live." -Tim Ferriss
"Vagabonding: An Uncommon Guide to the Art of Long-Term World Travel by Rolf Potts (TW: @rolfpotts, rolfpotts.com). I" -Tim Ferriss
"I am an old man and have known a great many troubles, but most of them never happened.      —MARK TWAIN" -Tim Ferriss
"What I’m finding is that microdoses of LSD or mushrooms may be very helpful for depression because they make you feel better enough that you do something about what’s wrong with your life. We’ve made [depression] an illness. It may be the body’s way of saying, ‘You better deal with something, because it’s making you really sad." -Tim Ferriss
"When they’re told that some people or ideas are wrong, hateful, or offensive, a light bulb should go off in their heads. That is the moment their curiosity should be piqued to find out for themselves whether it is indeed a 'bad' thing." -Tim Ferriss
"The first rule of any technology used in a business is that automation applied to an efficient operation will magnify the efficiency. The second is that automation applied to an inefficient operation will magnify the inefficiency. —BILL GATES" -Tim Ferriss
"It’s a matter of reminding yourself what your purpose in life is, right? What you’re here for. If you haven’t connected with what your purpose and mission in life is, then forget anything I’ve said. That is the number-one thing you need to do: Find out what you need to be doing on this planet, why you were put here, and what wakes you up in the mornings." -Tim Ferriss
"Interrogate the information shared with you by others, and use it as a way to make up your own mind, not a path to follow." -Tim Ferriss
"Would you tell me, please, which way I ought to go from here?' 'That depends a good deal on where you want to get to,' said the Cat. 'I don’t much care where …' said Alice. 'Then it doesn’t matter which way you go,' said the Cat. —LEWIS CARROLL, Alice in Wonderland" -Tim Ferriss
"My advice is to choose a profession that is really easy for you to do and that also allows you to be creative." -Tim Ferriss
"What advice would you give to a smart, driven college student about to enter the 'real world'? What advice should they ignore? Embrace the suck for a while. Chances are your first job is going to stink and your living conditions won’t be much better. Enjoy the scrappy years, ’cuz they’ll make you self-sufficient way faster. Ignore anyone who tells you to go for security over experience." -Tim Ferriss
"qué genios tan torturados son. No me convence…" -Tim Ferriss
"The Hero with a Thousand Faces by Joseph Campbell, The Lessons of History by Will and Ariel Durant, and River Out of Eden by Richard Dawkins." -Tim Ferriss
"Am I being productive or just active?" -Tim Ferriss
"How you journal things, how you cross reference, how you present things, how you inspire your crew, how you inspire other people around you, how you inspire yourself—it’s all creative. And if you say you’re not creative, look at how much you’re missing out on just because you’ve told yourself that. I think creativity is one of the greatest gifts that we’re born with that some people don’t cultivate, that they don’t realize it could be applied to literally everything in their lives." -Tim Ferriss
"You are the author of your own life, and it’s never too late to replace the stories you tell yourself and the world." -Tim Ferriss
"The Expert Builder: How to Become a Top Expert in 4 Weeks" -Tim Ferriss
"risks weren’t that scary once you took them." -Tim Ferriss
"This book aims to systematically overcome all of the above failure points, step-by-step. THE MARGIN OF SAFETY—IF WARREN BUFFETT DESIGNED MENUS Most cookbooks ignore how unreliable recipes can be." -Tim Ferriss
"utilizo un vehículo con conductor en cualquier parte del mundo." -Tim Ferriss
"Here are two truisms to keep in mind: 1. Doing something unimportant well does not make it important. 2. Requiring a lot of time does not make a task important." -Tim Ferriss
"This was not a war of nation versus nation, this was brother against brother in the most civilized cities on earth. To read Thucydides is to see our own world in microcosm. It’s the study of how democracies destroy themselves by breaking down into warring factions, the Few versus the Many." -Tim Ferriss
"It’s when I’m fuzzy about where I’m headed that I start to say yes to things willy-nilly. And I’ve been burned enough times by FOMO-based and ego-based decision-making to know that I’ll always regret choosing to do something for the wrong reason." -Tim Ferriss
"For every stage in life, you discover books that speak to you, that help you change, to become the version of yourself that you need to be. It’s so very difficult to choose one book." -Tim Ferriss
"Buridan’s ass,’ about a donkey who is standing halfway between a pile of hay and a bucket of water. He just keeps looking left to the hay, and right to the water, trying to decide. Hay or water, hay or water? He’s unable to decide, so he eventually falls over and dies of both hunger and thirst. A donkey can’t think of the future. If he did, he’d realize he could clearly go first to drink the water, then go eat the hay. 'So, my advice to my 30-year-old self is, don’t be a donkey. You can do everything you want to do. You just need foresight and patience." -Tim Ferriss
"Many of the one-liners teach volumes." -Tim Ferriss
"Deep Survival: Who Lives, Who Dies, and Why, by Laurence Gonzales." -Tim Ferriss
"Realistic goals, goals restricted to the average ambition level, are uninspiring and will only fuel you through the first or second problem, at which point you throw in the towel." -Tim Ferriss
"Use Parkinson’s Law to accomplish more in less time. Shorten schedules and deadlines to necessitate focused action instead of deliberation and procrastination." -Tim Ferriss
"Hard choices, easy life. Easy choices, hard life." -Tim Ferriss
"Dealing with the temporary frustration of not making progress is an integral part of the path towards excellence. In fact, it is essential and something that every single elite athlete has had to learn to deal with. If the pursuit of excellence was easy, everyone would do it. In fact, this impatience in dealing with frustration is the primary reason that most people fail to achieve their goals. Unreasonable expectations timewise, resulting in unnecessary frustration, due to a perceived feeling of failure. Achieving the extraordinary is not a linear process. The secret is to show up, do the work, and go home. A blue collar work ethic married to indomitable will. It is literally that simple. Nothing interferes. Nothing can sway you from your purpose. Once the decision is made, simply refuse to budge. Refuse to compromise." -Tim Ferriss
"Were my goals my own, or simply what I thought I should want? How much of life had I missed from underplanning or overplanning?" -Tim Ferriss
"I have recommended Kevin Kelly’s '1,000 True Fans' to literally millions of people. Many guests in this book have done the same. 'If you only read one article on marketing, make it this one' is my common wording. Here’s a highly simplified synopsis: 'Success' need not be complicated. Just start with making 1,000 people extremely, extremely happy." -Tim Ferriss
"#4—Prepare 'Titanium Tea' (this name was a joke, but it stuck) (2 to 3 minutes)" -Tim Ferriss
"método de natación de inmersión total de Terry Laughlin," -Tim Ferriss
"One approach I use is imaginary great-grandchildren. I talk to them all the time. I ask them about decisions and relationships and whether or not to continue them. They tend to speak loud and clear. 'Grandpa, you shouldn’t do this, or you need to leave these people alone because we will be affected negatively, or worse, we won’t exist.' Those moments show me that this whole thing is bigger than me. It’s the realization that there is a 'will to pleasure,' a 'will to power' and, in the words of Viktor Frankl, a 'will to meaning.' You won’t take a bullet for pleasure or power, but you will for meaning." -Tim Ferriss
"The struggle ends when the gratitude begins.' [Quote attributed to Neale Donald Walsch]" -Tim Ferriss
"Así que me he vuelto, creo, mucho más consciente con los años de la naturaleza problemática de un exceso de competitividad." -Tim Ferriss
"If you find yourself in a fair fight, you didn’t plan your mission properly.' –Colonel David Hackworth Former United States Army colonel and prominent military journalist" -Tim Ferriss
"Price is what you pay. Value is what you get.'—Warren Buffett" -Tim Ferriss
"The quality of your questions determines the quality of your life." -Tim Ferriss
"[One model that Whitney likes is the large weighted blanket from Weighted Blankets Plus LLC.]" -Tim Ferriss
"Seeing as how nothing is outside the vast, wide-meshed net of heaven, who is there to say just how it is cast?' 'I find good people good, and I find bad people good, if I am good enough." -Tim Ferriss
"Más del 80 por ciento de los entrevistados practica a diario alguna forma de conciencia plena (mindfulness) o de meditación." -Tim Ferriss
"Uncertainty and the prospect of failure can be very scary noises in the shadows. Most people will choose unhappiness over uncertainty." -Tim Ferriss
"Reading, after a certain age, diverts the mind too much from its creative pursuits. Any man who reads too much and uses his own brain too little falls into lazy habits of thinking." -Tim Ferriss
"Question Cal Suggests Asking People More Often 'What are some of the choices you’ve made that made you who you are?" -Tim Ferriss
"«¿Qué es lo peor que podría pasar si dejara de hacer lo que estoy considerando?" -Tim Ferriss
"Experience often deeply embeds the assumptions that need to be questioned in the first place. When you have a lot of experience with something, you don’t notice the things that are new about it. You don’t notice the idiosyncrasies that need to be tweaked. You don’t notice where the gaps are, what’s missing, or what’s not really working." -Tim Ferriss
"we wear our ability to get by on very little sleep as a kind of badge of honor that symbolizes work ethic, or toughness, or some other virtue—but really, it’s a total profound failure of priorities and of self-respect." -Tim Ferriss
"Durante una excursión por San Francisco, Matt me recomendó leer «La última parte» de Tim Urban en el blog Wait But Why (si sólo vas a leer un artículo este mes, que sea éste)." -Tim Ferriss
"Occasionally, a good idea comes to you first, if you’re lucky. Usually, it only comes after a lot of bad ideas." -Tim Ferriss
"Don’t worry about making money. Don’t stress about having a plan. Don’t think about networking or setting yourself up for the next thing. Try as hard as you possibly can to find something you love, because the depressing reality is that most people never find a career that they’re truly passionate about." -Tim Ferriss
"book Psych by Dr. Judd Biasiotto." -Tim Ferriss
"Professor Kikunae Ikeda of Tokyo Imperial University isolated umami as glutamic acid while studying kombu, giant Japanese sea kelp. He commercialized this finding as monosodium glutamate (MSG), but you need not eat headache powder to taste the wonder (and healthfulness, when organic) of umami. Tomatoes, parmesan, and chicken broth all have high glutamate content. There are also mimics: shiitake mushrooms have umami-like nucleotides that allow them to impart a similar taste." -Tim Ferriss
"¿Qué es lo que te gustaría cambiar o mejorar de ti?" -Tim Ferriss
"The power broker in your life is the voice that no one ever hears. How well you revisit the tone and content of your private voice is what determines the quality of your life. It is the master storyteller, and the stories we tell ourselves are our reality. For instance, how do you speak to yourself when you make a mistake that upsets you? Would you speak that way to a dear friend when they’ve made a mistake? If not, you have work to do. Trust me, we all have work to do." -Tim Ferriss
"Fables and Fortune Hunters An American businessman took a vacation to a small coastal Mexican village on doctor’s orders. Unable to sleep after an urgent phone call from the office the first morning, he walked out to the pier to clear his head. A small boat with just one fisherman had docked, and inside the boat were several large yellowfin tuna. The American complimented the Mexican on the quality of his fish. 'How long did it take you to catch them?' the American asked. 'Only a little while,' the Mexican replied in surprisingly good English. 'Why don’t you stay out longer and catch more fish?' the American then asked. 'I have enough to support my family and give a few to friends,' the Mexican said as he unloaded them into a basket. 'But … What do you do with the rest of your time?' The Mexican looked up and smiled. 'I sleep late, fish a little, play with my children, take a siesta with my wife, Julia, and stroll into the village each evening, where I sip wine and play guitar with my amigos. I have a full and busy life, señor.' The American laughed and stood tall. 'Sir, I’m a Harvard M.B.A. and can help you. You should spend more time fishing, and with the proceeds, buy a bigger boat. In no time, you could buy several boats with the increased haul. Eventually, you would have a fleet of fishing boats.' He continued, 'Instead of selling your catch to a middleman, you would sell directly to the consumers, eventually opening your own cannery. You would control the product, processing, and distribution. You would need to leave this small coastal fishing village, of course, and move to Mexico City, then to Los Angeles, and eventually New York City, where you could run your expanding enterprise with proper management.' The Mexican fisherman asked, 'But, señor, how long will all this take?' To which the American replied, '15–20 years. 25 tops.' 'But what then, señor?' The American laughed and said, 'That’s the best part. When the time is right, you would announce an IPO and sell your company stock to the public and become very rich. You would make millions.' 'Millions, señor? Then what?' 'Then you would retire and move to a small coastal fishing village, where you would sleep late, fish a little, play with your kids, take a siesta with your wife, and stroll to the village in the evenings where you could sip wine and play your guitar with your amigos …" -Tim Ferriss
"As to methods there may be a million and then some, but principles are few. The man who grasps principles can successfully select his own methods. The man who tries methods, ignoring principles, is sure to have trouble.' –Ralph Waldo Emerson" -Tim Ferriss
"y qué coste le ha supuesto a la gente que has amado en el pasado?" -Tim Ferriss
"Realize that bosses are supervisors, not slave masters." -Tim Ferriss
"#5—You can’t reason someone out of something they didn’t reason themselves into. #6—'Trying to get everyone to like you is a sign of mediocrity. You’ll avoid the tough decisions, and you’ll avoid confronting the people who need to be confronted.'—Colin Powell #7—'If you want to improve, be content to be thought foolish and stupid.'—Epictetus" -Tim Ferriss
"What advice would you give to a smart, driven college student about to enter the 'real world'? What advice should they ignore? Advice: Follow your intellectual curiosity over whatever is 'hot' right now. If your curiosity ever leads you to a place where society eventually wants to go, you’ll get paid extremely well. Do everything you were going to do, but with less angst, less suffering, less emotion. Everything takes time. Ignore: The news. Complainers, angry people, high-conflict people. Anyone trying to scare you about a danger that isn’t clear and present. Don’t do things that you know are morally wrong. Not because someone is watching, but because you are. Self-esteem is just the reputation that you have with yourself. You’ll always know. Ignore the unfairness—there is no fair. Play the hand that you’re dealt to the best of your ability. People are highly consistent, so you will eventually get what you deserve and so will they. In the end, everyone gets the same judgment: death." -Tim Ferriss
"I wish I would have known that there was no need to wait." -Tim Ferriss
"Words That Work, written by Republican political strategist Frank Luntz." -Tim Ferriss
"Freedom by Jiddu Krishnamurti. A rationalist’s guide to the perils of the human mind. The 'spiritual' book that I keep returning to. Sapiens by Yuval Noah Harari. A history of the human species, with observations, frameworks, and mental models that will have you looking at history and your fellow humans differently. Everything by Matt Ridley. Matt is a scientist, optimist, and forward thinker. Genome, The Red Queen, The Origins of Virtue, The Rational Optimist—they’re all great. How has a failure, or apparent failure, set you up for later success? Do you have a 'favorite failure' of yours? Suffering is a moment of clarity, when you can no longer deny the truth of a situation and are forced into uncomfortable change. I’m lucky that I didn’t get everything I wanted in my life, or I’d be happy with my first good job, my college sweetheart, my college town." -Tim Ferriss
"como si eso fuera una especie de medalla de honor que simboliza ética laboral," -Tim Ferriss
"out of our insane duty to fear, fashion, and monthly payments on things we don’t really need—we quarantine our travels to short, frenzied bursts. In this way, as we throw our wealth at an abstract notion called 'lifestyle,' travel becomes just another accessory—a smooth-edged, encapsulated experience that we purchase in the same way we buy clothing and furniture. Not" -Tim Ferriss
"You won’t believe what you can accomplish by attempting the impossible with the courage to repeatedly fail better." -Tim Ferriss
"Excuse me. I know this is going to sound strange, but if I don’t ask you now, I’ll be kicking myself for the rest of the day. I’m running to meet a friend [i.e., I have friends and am not a stalker], but I think you’re really [extremely, drop-dead] cute [gorgeous, hot]. Could I have your phone number? I’m not a psycho—I promise. You can give me a fake one if you’re not interested." -Tim Ferriss
"Everything you want is on the other side of fear.' Stephanie McMahon" -Tim Ferriss
"It’s really how you look at it, and the way you look at it is so important. If you can have a positive attitude," -Tim Ferriss
"Un dicho de Sommer: «No eres responsable de la mano de cartas que te han repartido. Eres responsable de sacar el máximo de lo que te ha tocado»." -Tim Ferriss
"Every writer in this book has a slightly different process, but they all start with the same thing: a blank page." -Tim Ferriss
"Matt recommended I read 'The Tail End' by Tim Urban" -Tim Ferriss
"Normalmente, lo que nos da más miedo hacer es lo que más necesitamos hacer." -Tim Ferriss
"únete a gente y a organizaciones que ya tengan éxito, funde tu identidad con la suya, y haz crecer ambas a la vez. Desde luego, tiene más encanto perseguir tu propia gloria," -Tim Ferriss
"Creation is a better means of self-expression than possession; it is through creating, not possessing, that life is revealed." -Tim Ferriss
"Because being wrong is just an opportunity to find more of the truth." -Tim Ferriss
"God will not have his work made manifest by cowards." -Tim Ferriss
"Anaïs Nin, which I see every day: 'Life shrinks or expands in proportion to one’s courage." -Tim Ferriss
"Emptiness is the fasting of the mind.' –Zhuang Zhou 4th century B.C." -Tim Ferriss
"Man’s Search for Meaning by Viktor Frankl." -Tim Ferriss
"Follow your curiosity, wherever you can find" -Tim Ferriss
"Let life ripen and then fall. Will is not the way at all.'—Lao Tzu, from The Way of Life According to Lao Tzu" -Tim Ferriss
"About Face, de David H. Hackworth. Otro" -Tim Ferriss
"Most of history was built by young people. They just got credit when they were older." -Tim Ferriss
"«Si no tienes nada que esconder, no debes preocuparte por tu privacidad," -Tim Ferriss
"The 4-Hour Workweek Films: The Bourne Identity, Shaun of the Dead 'Flow' album: Gran Hotel Buenos Aires by Federico Aubele 'Wake-up' album: One-X by Three Days Grace The 4-Hour Body Films: Casino Royale, Snatch 'Flow' album: Luciano Essential Mix (2009, Ibiza) featuring DeadMau5 'Wake-up' album: Cold Day Memory by Sevendust The 4-Hour Chef Films: Babe (Yes, the pig movie. It was the first thing that popped up for free under Amazon Prime. I watched it once as a joke and it stuck. 'That’ll do, pig. That’ll do.' Gets me every time.) 'Flow' album: 'Just Jammin’' extended single track by Gramatik 'Wake-up' album: Dear Agony by Breaking Benjamin Tools of Titans Films: None! I was traveling and used people-watching at late-night cafés in Paris and elsewhere as my 'movie.' 'Flow' album: I Choose Noise by Hybrid 'Wake-up' album: Over the Under by Down" -Tim Ferriss
"Grudges are for those who insist that they are owed something; forgiveness, however, is for those who are substantial enough to move on." -Tim Ferriss
"Do not let people interrupt you. Find your focus and you’ll find your lifestyle." -Tim Ferriss
"The three of us are strong-willed individuals with distinct preferences, and the Eating Out Jar came out of a struggle. Each time we talked about going out to eat, we would spend so much energy bickering that we would be exhausted or discouraged by the time we finally chose. It was not fun. The same situation occurred with choosing an activity for the weekend. I sat my family at the table and gave them pens and Post-it notes where we wrote all the ideas we had. It was fun to see my family’s ideas. My husband and daughter realized that they both liked the same places and the same activities. Usually I was the one to introduce new ideas, which were met with resistance. Here was my chance to introduce things and activities I would like to experiment with and experience. Creating jars eliminated the necessity of using force, manipulation, or persuasion. Now we don’t waste time on making simple decisions, we just pull the jar out and randomly pick one, and we all love (or accept) the choice. The Happiness Jar we created for those times when we were going through down times as family. We came up with ideas that we all like and enjoy—simple things such as bathing our dog Bella or making potato-zucchini pancakes." -Tim Ferriss
"Oscar Wilde’s advice, 'The only way to get rid of a temptation is to yield to it" -Tim Ferriss
"Ask ten people if they would buy your product. Then tell those who said 'yes' that you have ten units in your car and ask them to buy. The initial positive responses, given by people who want to be liked and aim to please, become polite refusals as soon as real money is at stake." -Tim Ferriss
"What is one of the best or most worthwhile investments you’ve ever made? 'If I accept you as you are, I make you worse; however, if I treat you as though you are what you are capable of becoming I help you become that.'—Johann Wolfgang von Goethe" -Tim Ferriss
"I once asked my mom how she decided when to have her first child, little ol’ me. The answer was simple: 'It was something we wanted, and we decided there was no point in putting it off. The timing is never right to have a baby.' And so it is." -Tim Ferriss
"Limit tasks to the important to shorten work time (80/20). 2. Shorten work time to limit tasks to the important (Parkinson’s Law)." -Tim Ferriss
"You don’t 'succeed' because you have no weaknesses; you succeed because you find your unique strengths and focus on developing habits around them. . . . Everyone is fighting a battle [and has fought battles] you know nothing about. The heroes in this book are no different. Everyone struggles." -Tim Ferriss
"¿Qué coste tendrá cada uno de ellos para ti y para la gente que te importa dentro de uno, tres, cinco y diez años? Míralo, óyelo, siéntelo." -Tim Ferriss
"* Do you have any quotes that you live your life by or think of often? [Among others] 'The future is already here—it’s just unevenly distributed.'—William Gibson 'If we continue to develop our technology without wisdom or prudence, our servant may prove to be our executioner.'—Omar N. Bradley * What is the worst advice you see or hear given in your trade or area of expertise? 'If you have nothing to hide, then you don’t have to worry about privacy, and that we must sacrifice our privacy in order to have security.' * Three people or sources you’ve learned from—or followed closely—in the last year? David Brooks, 'The Moral Bucket List.' Nir Eyal, Hooked. Anything by Kevin Kelly, most recently The Inevitable." -Tim Ferriss
"TF: Many of the guests in this book listen to Sam’s guided meditations on SoundCloud or his site. Just search 'Sam Harris guided meditations.' Per Sam: 'People find it very helpful to have somebody’s voice reminding them to not be lost in thought every few seconds." -Tim Ferriss
"and Sweet I followed Marc on Twitter well before we met in person. Here are a few of my favorite tweets of his, many related to the above points: 'My goal is not to fail fast. My goal is to succeed over the long run. They are not the same thing.' 'To do original work: It’s not necessary to know something nobody else knows. It is necessary to believe something few other people believe.' 'Andy Grove had the answer: For every metric, there should be another ‘paired’ metric that addresses adverse consequences of the first metric." -Tim Ferriss
"From here, the reality of vagabonding comes into sharper focus as you adjust your worldview and begin to embrace the exhilarating uncertainty that true travel promises. In" -Tim Ferriss
"36 Arguments for the Existence of God: A Work of Fiction by Rebecca Newberger Goldstein" -Tim Ferriss
". The superheroes you have in your mind (idols, icons, titans, billionaires, etc.) are nearly all walking flaws who’ve maximized 1 or 2 strengths. Humans are imperfect creatures. You don’t 'succeed' because you have no weaknesses; you succeed because you find your unique strengths and focus on developing habits around them." -Tim Ferriss
"Once You’re in Keto, How Can You Keep It Going Without Fasting? The short answer is: Eat a boatload of fat (~1.5 to 2.5 g per kilogram of body weight), next-to-no carbs, and moderate protein (1 to 1.5 g per kilogram of body weight) each day. We’ll look at Dom’s typical meals and day in a minute, but a few critical notes first: High protein and low fat doesn’t work. Your liver will convert excess amino acids into glucose and shut down ketogenesis. Fat as 70 to 85% of calories is required. This doesn’t mean you always have to eat rib eye steaks. A chicken breast by itself will kick you out of ketosis, but a chicken breast cut up into a green leafy salad with a lot of olive oil, feta cheese, and some Bulletproof Coffee (for example) can keep you in ketosis. One of the challenges of keto is the amount of fat one needs to consume to maintain it. Roughly 70 to 80% of your total calories need to come from fat. Rather than trying to incorporate fat bombs into all meals (one does get tired of fatty steak, eggs, and cheese over and over again), Dom will both drink fat between meals (e.g., coconut milk—not water—in coffee) and add in supplemental 'ice cream,' detailed on page 29. Dom noticed that dairy can cause lipid profile issues (e.g., can spike LDL) and has started to minimize things like cream and cheese. I experienced the same. It’s easy to eat a disgusting amount of cheese to stay in keto. Consider coconut milk (Aroy-D Pure Coconut Milk) instead. Dom doesn’t worry about elevated LDL as long as other blood markers aren’t out of whack (high CRP, low HDL, etc.). From Dom: 'The thing that I focus on most is triglycerides. If your triglycerides are elevated, that means your body is just not adapting to the ketogenic diet. Some people’s triglycerides are elevated even when their calories are restricted. That’s a sign that the ketogenic diet is not for you. . . . It’s not a one-size-fits-all diet." -Tim Ferriss
"dilettante," -Tim Ferriss
"The Beginning Is 'heart work,' not 'head work' 'So much of the job is more emotion and ‘heart work’ than it is ‘head work.’ The head comes in after, to look at what the heart has presented and to organize it. But the initial inspiration comes from a different place, and it’s not the head, and it’s not an intellectual activity." -Tim Ferriss
"If you run into an asshole in the morning, you ran into an asshole. If you run into assholes all day, you’re the asshole." -Tim Ferriss
"Radzę sobie z odrzuceniem przez wytrwałe dążenie, a nie przez poszukiwanie możliwości gdzie indziej. Moja maksyma to słowa Samuela Becketta, mojego osobistego idola: »Nieustannie próbuj. Nieustannie przegrywaj. To nieważne. Próbuj jeszcze raz. I jeszcze raz przegrywaj. Ale lepiej«. To nie do wiary, ile można osiągnąć, dążąc do niemożliwego z odwagą, ponosząc porażki, ale coraz mniejsze." -Tim Ferriss
"Casi siempre tenía que ver con su capacidad para escuchar," -Tim Ferriss
"happens" -Tim Ferriss
"Scarcity: Why Having Too Little Means So Much by Sendhil Mullainathan and Eldar Shafir. An explanation of scarcity for rich intellectuals, showing how poor people do stupid things for lack of money, while rich people do stupid things for lack of time." -Tim Ferriss
"Failure will happen, and failure is an opportunity to build resilience, to practice forgiveness of self and of others, and to gain wisdom." -Tim Ferriss
"Slow down and remember this: Most things make no difference. Being busy is a form of laziness—lazy thinking and indiscriminate action. Being overwhelmed is often as unproductive as doing nothing, and is far more unpleasant. Being selective—doing less—is the path of the productive. Focus on the important few and ignore the rest. Of course, before you can separate the wheat from the chaff and eliminate activities in a new environment (whether a new job or an entrepreneurial venture), you will need to try a lot to identify what pulls the most weight. Throw it all up on the wall and see what sticks. That’s part of the process, but it should not take more than a month or two. It’s easy to get caught in a flood of minutiae, and the key to not feeling rushed is remembering that lack of time is actually lack of priorities. Take time to stop and smell the roses, or—in this case—to count the pea pods. The 9–5 Illusion and Parkinson’s Law I saw a bank that said '24-Hour Banking,' but I don’t have that much time." -Tim Ferriss
"Our sprint coach, Barry Ross, has a most unusual zoo. In fact, he can engineer mutants at will. His best female distance runner has deadlifted 415 lbs at a body weight of 132 lbs. His youngest male lifter, 11 years old, has dead-lifted 225 lbs at a body weight of 108 lbs." -Tim Ferriss
"Do people you respect or care about leave hateful comments on the Internet?' (No.) 'Do you really want to engage with people who have infinite time on their hands?' (No.)" -Tim Ferriss
"Suffering is a moment of clarity, when you can no longer deny the truth of a situation and are forced into uncomfortable change." -Tim Ferriss
"his favorite" -Tim Ferriss
"To be a successful creator, you don’t need millions. You don’t need millions of dollars or millions of customers, clients, or fans. To make a living as a craftsperson, photographer, musician, designer, author, animator, app maker, entrepreneur, or inventor you need only 1,000 true fans." -Tim Ferriss
"Morning: NO-Xplode11 (2 scoops), Slo-Niacin (or timed-release niacinamide, 500 mg) Each meal: ChromeMate (chromium polynicotinate, not picolinate, 200 mcg), alpha-lipoic acid (200 mg) Pre-workout: BodyQUICK (2 capsules 30 mins. prior) Post-workout: Micellean (30 g micellar casein protein) Prior to bed: policosanol (23 mg), ChromeMate (200 mcg), alpha-lipoic acid (200 mg), Slo-Niacin (500 mg) No anabolics were used." -Tim Ferriss
"Fíjate en lo que haces actualmente y pregúntate: «¿Qué pasaría si hiciera lo contrario que los que me rodean? ¿Qué voy a sacrificar si continúo así durante 5, 10 o 20 años más?»." -Tim Ferriss
"Buffett told him, 'Investing in yourself is the most important investment you’ll ever make in your life. . . . There’s no financial investment that’ll ever match it, because if you develop more skill, more ability, more insight, more capacity, that’s what’s going to really provide economic freedom. . . . It’s those skill sets that really make that happen." -Tim Ferriss
"If regular exercise could be bottled, it would be a miracle drug." -Tim Ferriss
"100 Most Creative People in Business by Fast Company magazine." -Tim Ferriss
"As you stumble and learn, stumble and learn again, resolve to talk to yourself as if you were your best friend. So no 'What a #?%$@ idiot!' when your BFF smashes an egg on the floor, m'kay? Be cool, like the Fonz." -Tim Ferriss
"Endings don’t have to be failures, especially when you choose to end a project or shut down a business. . . . Even the best gigs don’t last forever. Nor should they." -Tim Ferriss
"The Power of Persuasion, de Robert Levine." -Tim Ferriss
"Para cambiar radicalmente de vida no necesitas correr una carrera de cien kilómetros, ni doctorarte en nada, ni reinventarte por completo. Son las cosas pequeñas hechas con constancia las que se convierten en algo grande (como" -Tim Ferriss
"A human being should be able to change a diaper, plan an invasion, butcher a hog, conn a ship, design a building, write a sonnet, balance accounts, build a wall, set a bone, comfort the dying, take orders, give orders, cooperate, act alone, solve equations, analyze a new problem, pitch manure, program a computer, cook a tasty meal, fight efficiently, die gallantly. Specialization is for insects." -Tim Ferriss
"Disciplina igual a libertad'»." -Tim Ferriss
"the importance of creating large, uninterrupted blocks of time, during which your mind can wander, ponder, and find the signal amidst the noise. If you’re lucky, it might even create a signal, or connect two signals (core ideas) that have never shaken hands before." -Tim Ferriss
"Most who avoid quitting their jobs entertain the thought that their course will improve with time or increases in income. This seems valid and is a tempting hallucination when a job is boring or uninspiring instead of pure hell. Pure hell forces action, but anything less can be endured with enough clever rationalization. Do you really think it will improve or is it wishful thinking and an excuse for inaction? If you were confident in improvement, would you really be questioning things so? Generally not. This is fear of the unknown disguised as optimism. Are you better off than you were one year ago, one month ago, or one week ago? If not, things will not improve by themselves. If you are kidding yourself, it is time to stop and plan for a jump. Barring any James Dean ending, your life is going to be LONG. Nine to five for your working lifetime of 40–50 years is a long-ass time if the rescue doesn’t come. About 500 months of solid work. How many do you have to go? It’s probably time to cut your losses." -Tim Ferriss
"Why Consider Fasting? Dom has discussed the idea of a therapeutic 'purge fast' with his colleague Dr. Thomas Seyfried of Boston College. Per Dom: 'If you don’t have cancer and you do a therapeutic fast 1 to 3 times per year, you could purge any precancerous cells that may be living in your body.' If you’re over the age of 40, cancer is one of the four types of diseases (see Dr. Peter Attia on page 59) that will kill you with 80% certainty, so this seems like smart insurance. There is also evidence to suggest—skipping the scientific detail—that fasts of 3 days or longer can effectively 'reboot' your immune system via stem cell–based regeneration. Dom suggests a 5-day fast 2 to 3 times per year. Dom has done 7-day fasts before, while lecturing at the University of South Florida. On day 7, he went into class with his glucose between 35 and 45 mg/dL, and his ketones around 5 mmol. Then, before breaking the fast, he went to the gym and deadlifted 500 pounds for 10 reps, followed by 1 rep of 585 pounds. Dom was inspired to do his first 7-day fast by George Cahill, a researcher at Harvard Medical School, who’d conducted a fascinating study published in 1970* wherein he fasted people for 40 days." -Tim Ferriss
"A complex system that works is invariably found to have evolved from a simple system that worked. A complex system designed from scratch never works and cannot be patched up to make it work. You have to start over, beginning with a working simple system.'—John Gall" -Tim Ferriss
"D: To work for yourself. NR: To have others work for you. D: To work when you want to. NR: To prevent work for work’s sake, and to do the minimum necessary for maximum effect ('minimum effective load'). D: To retire early or young. NR: To distribute recovery periods and adventures (mini-retirements) throughout life on a regular basis and recognize that inactivity is not the goal. Doing that which excites you is. D: To buy all the things you want to have. NR: To do all the things you want to do, and be all the things you want to be. If this includes some tools and gadgets, so be it, but they are either means to an end or bonuses, not the focus. D: To be the boss instead of the employee; to be in charge. NR: To be neither the boss nor the employee, but the owner. To own the trains and have someone else ensure they run on time. D: To make a ton of money. NR: To make a ton of money with specific reasons and defined dreams to chase, timelines and steps included. What are you working for? D: To have more. NR: To have more quality and less clutter. To have huge financial reserves but recognize that most material wants are justifications for spending time on the things that don’t really matter, including buying things and preparing to buy things. You spent two weeks negotiating your new Infiniti with the dealership and got $10,000 off? That’s great. Does your life have a purpose? Are you contributing anything useful to this world, or just shuffling papers, banging on a keyboard, and coming home to a drunken existence on the weekends? D: To reach the big pay-off, whether IPO, acquisition, retirement, or other pot of gold. NR: To think big but ensure payday comes every day: cash flow first, big payday second. D: To have freedom from doing that which you dislike. NR: To have freedom from doing that which you dislike, but also the freedom and resolve to pursue your dreams without reverting to work for work’s sake (W4W). After years of repetitive work, you will often need to dig hard to find your passions, redefine your dreams, and revive hobbies that you let atrophy to near extinction. The goal is not to simply eliminate the bad, which does nothing more than leave you with a vacuum, but to pursue and experience the best in the world." -Tim Ferriss
"What would you put on a billboard? 'No one owes you anything." -Tim Ferriss
"You do not have to sacrifice the integrity of your art for a respectable income. You just need to create a great experience and charge enough." -Tim Ferriss
"What are bad recommendations you hear in your profession or area of expertise? Great, great question. In the world of writing, everyone wants to succeed immediately and without pain or effort. Really? Or they love to write books about how to write books, rather than actually writing . . . a book that might actually be about something. Bad advice is everywhere. Build a following. Establish a platform. Learn how to scam the system. In other words, do all the surface stuff and none of the real work it takes to actually produce something of value. The disease of our times is that we live on the surface. We’re like the Platte River, a mile wide and an inch deep. I always say, 'If you want to become a billionaire, invent something that will allow people to indulge their own Resistance.' Somebody did invent it. It’s called the Internet. Social media. That wonderland where we can flit from one superficial, jerkoff distraction to another, always remaining on the surface, never going deeper than an inch. Real work and real satisfaction come from the opposite of what the web provides. They come from going deep into something—the book you’re writing, the album, the movie—and staying there for a long, long time." -Tim Ferriss
"frame the importance of the first 60 to 90 minutes of the day." -Tim Ferriss
"The Atlantic con el título: «Hacking the President’s DNA». Si" -Tim Ferriss
"One of the books he recommends for cultivating dealmaking ability is actually a children’s book and a 10-minute read: Stone Soup. 'It’s a children’s story that is the best MBA degree you can read." -Tim Ferriss
"Which would have advanced the most at the end of a month,' he posited, 'the boy who had made his own jackknife from the ore which he had dug and smelted, reading as much as would be necessary for this—or the boy who had . . . received a Rodgers’ penknife from his father? Which would be most likely to cut his fingers?" -Tim Ferriss
"Rather, it’s the ongoing practice of looking and learning, of facing fears and altering habits, of cultivating a new fascination in people and places." -Tim Ferriss
"Everyone thinks of changing the world, but no one thinks of changing himself." -Tim Ferriss
"I’m not sure how much the formal study of philosophy matters, but I think the fundamental philosophical question is one that’s important for all of us, and it’s always this question of ‘What do people agree merely by convention, and what is the truth?" -Tim Ferriss
"Shoulder Extension:" -Tim Ferriss
"What are you putting off out of fear? Usually, what we most fear doing is what we most need to do. That phone call, that conversation, whatever the action might be—it is fear of unknown outcomes that prevents us from doing what we need to do. Define the worst case, accept it, and do it. I’ll repeat something you might consider tattooing on your forehead: What we fear doing most is usually what we most need to do. As I have heard said, a person’s success in life can usually be measured by the number of uncomfortable conversations he or she is willing to have. Resolve to do one thing every day that you fear. I got into this habit by attempting to contact celebrities and famous businesspeople for advice." -Tim Ferriss
"Whether it’s a morning routine, or a philosophy or training tip, or just motivation to get through your day, there isn’t a person on this planet who doesn’t benefit from a little outside help." -Tim Ferriss
"«Trabajando fielmente ocho horas al día, con el tiempo llegarás a ser jefe y a trabajar doce horas al día.» ROBERT FROST, poeta" -Tim Ferriss
"«¿Por qué hacer el esfuerzo de explicar por qué algo no sirve si los demás no han hecho los deberes para comprobar si sirve?»" -Tim Ferriss
"cuando juzgas a los demás sólo es una manera de no mirarnos a nosotros mismos;" -Tim Ferriss
"We agreed I was going to make judgment calls on a range of issues on his behalf without checking with him. He told me, ‘In order to move fast, I expect you’ll make some foot faults. I’m okay with an error rate of 10 to 20%—times when I would have made a different decision in a given situation—if it means you can move fast.’ I felt empowered to make decisions with this ratio in mind, and it was incredibly liberating.' TF: 'Foot faults' is a metaphor here. 'Foot fault' literally refers to a penalty in tennis when you serve with improper foot placement, often due to rushing." -Tim Ferriss
"3. En caso de duda, córtales el oxígeno." -Tim Ferriss
"It revealed to me that we only get what we desire most, and to apply myself with a laserlike focus upon a goal, task, or project." -Tim Ferriss
"Cambia las palabras para cambiar el mundo" -Tim Ferriss
"Desire is a contract that you make with yourself to be unhappy until you get what you want.' Desire is a driver, a motivator. In fact, a sincere and uncompromising desire, placed above everything else, is nearly always fulfilled." -Tim Ferriss
"meditation simply helps you channel drive toward the few things that matter, rather than every moving target and imaginary opponent that pops up." -Tim Ferriss
"little part of me dies every time someone tells me they’ve taken a job as a 'steppingstone' to something else, when they clearly aren’t invested in it. You have one life to live. Time is valuable. If you’re using steppingstones, you’re also likely relying on someone else’s path or definition of success. Make your own. What are bad recommendations you hear in your profession or area of expertise?" -Tim Ferriss
"insecure, guess what? The rest of the world is, too. Do not overestimate the competition and underestimate yourself. You are better than you think." -Tim Ferriss
"What is the book (or books) you’ve given most as a gift, and why? Or what are one to three books that have greatly influenced your life? At some point about halfway through my 20-year career in the SEAL Teams, I read About Face by Colonel David H. Hackworth. I haven’t stopped reading it since. Hackworth came up through the ranks and served as an infantry officer in the Korean and Vietnam wars. He was revered by his men and respected by all who worked with him. While the stories of combat are incredible and there is much to be learned about battlefield tactics in the book, the real lessons for me are about leadership. I adapted many of his leadership principles over the years and still continue to learn from his experiences. Thanks for everything, Colonel Hackworth." -Tim Ferriss
"Who are the 20% of people who produce 80% of your enjoyment and propel you forward, and which 20% cause 80% of your depression, anger, and second-guessing?" -Tim Ferriss
"What did you want to do when you were a child, before anybody told you what you were supposed to do? What was it you wanted to become? What did you want to do more than anything else? 'If Peter Diamandis or Tim Ferriss gave you $1 billion, how would you spend it besides the parties and the Ferraris and so forth? If I asked you to spend $1 billion improving the world, solving a problem, what would you pursue? 'Where can you put yourself into an environment that gives maximum exposure to new ideas, problems, and people? Exposure to things that capture your ‘shower time’ [those things you can’t stop thinking about in the shower]?' [Peter recommends environments like Singularity University.] TF: Still struggling with a sense of purpose or mission? Roughly half a dozen people in this book (e.g., Robert Rodriguez) have suggested the book Start with Why by Simon Sinek." -Tim Ferriss
"Compruebe sus datos' es lo que yo denomino la 'maniobra suprema'." -Tim Ferriss
"A schedule defends from chaos and whim. —ANNIE DILLARD, winner of Pulitzer Prize in nonfiction, 1975" -Tim Ferriss
"you succeed because you find your unique strengths and focus on developing habits around them." -Tim Ferriss
"Three to five billion new consumers are coming online in the next 6 years. Holy cow, that’s extraordinary. What do they need? What" -Tim Ferriss
"The Art of Possibility, de Rosamund Stone Zander" -Tim Ferriss
"Matt Mullenweg" -Tim Ferriss
"The manifesto of the dealmaker is simple: Reality is negotiable. Outside of science and law, all rules can be bent or broken, and it doesn’t require being unethical." -Tim Ferriss
"Si dejas que el aprendizaje te lleve a la acción, te haces rico»." -Tim Ferriss
"«Valve: Handbook for New Employees»," -Tim Ferriss
"Be willing to fail or succeed on who you really are. Don’t ever try to be anything else. What you are is good enough for whatever it is you’re doing." -Tim Ferriss
"if you try to approach every problem with your moral compass, first and foremost, you’re going to make a lot of mistakes. You’re going to exclude a lot of possible good solutions. You’re going to assume you know a lot of things, when in fact you don’t, and you’re not going to be a good partner in reaching a solution with other people who don’t happen to see the world the way you do." -Tim Ferriss
"Reduce el ego en un momento crítico de tu carrera, lo que te permitirá absorber todo lo que puedas sin los estorbos que bloquean la visión y el progreso de otros. Nadie está" -Tim Ferriss
"If you are distressed by anything external, the pain is not due to the thing itself, but to your estimate of it; and this you have the power to revoke at any moment." -Tim Ferriss
"We suggest finding a 'mindfulness buddy' and committing to a 15-minute conversation every week, covering at least these two topics: a. How am I doing with my commitment to my practice? b. What has arisen in my life that relates to my practice? We also suggest ending the conversation with the question, 'How did this conversation go?' We instituted this in our mindfulness-based emotional intelligence program (Search Inside Yourself) and found it very effective. 2." -Tim Ferriss
"hormone replacement therapy (HRT) for both men and women" -Tim Ferriss
"Only those who are asleep make no mistakes. —INGVAR KAMPRAD, founder of IKEA," -Tim Ferriss
"Wake up at least 1 hour before you have to be at a computer screen. Email is the mind-killer. Make a cup of tea (I like pu-erh) and sit down with a pen/pencil and paper. Write down the 3 to 5 things—and no more—that are making you the most anxious or uncomfortable. They’re often things that have been punted from one day’s to-do list to the next, to the next, to the next, and so on. Most important usually equals most uncomfortable, with some chance of rejection or conflict. For each item, ask yourself: 'If this were the only thing I accomplished today, would I be satisfied with my day?' 'Will moving this forward make all the other to-dos unimportant or easier to knock off later?' Put another way: 'What, if done, will make all of the rest easier or irrelevant?' Look only at the items you’ve answered 'yes' to for at least one of these questions. Block out at 2 to 3 hours to focus on ONE of them for today. Let the rest of the urgent but less important stuff slide. It will still be there tomorrow. TO BE CLEAR: Block out at 2 to 3 HOURS to focus on ONE of them for today. This is ONE BLOCK OF TIME. Cobbling together 10 minutes here and there to add up to 120 minutes does not work. No phone calls or social media allowed. If you get distracted or start procrastinating, don’t freak out and downward-spiral; just gently come back to your ONE to-do." -Tim Ferriss
"a Harvard M.B.A. and can help you. You should spend more time fishing, and with the proceeds, buy a bigger boat. In no time, you could buy several boats with the increased haul. Eventually, you would have a fleet of fishing boats.' He continued, 'Instead of selling your catch to a middleman, you would sell directly to the consumers, eventually opening your own cannery. You would control the product, processing, and distribution. You would need to leave this small coastal fishing village, of course, and move to Mexico City, then to Los Angeles, and eventually New York City, where you could run your expanding enterprise with proper management.' The Mexican fisherman asked, 'But, señor, how long will all this take?' To which the American replied, '15–20 years. 25 tops.' 'But what then, señor?' The American laughed and said, 'That’s the best part. When the time is right, you would announce an IPO and sell your company stock to the public and become very rich. You would make millions.' 'Millions, señor? Then what?' 'Then you would retire and move to a small coastal fishing village, where you would sleep late, fish a little, play with your kids, take a siesta with your wife, and stroll to the village in the evenings where you could sip wine and play your guitar with your amigos …" -Tim Ferriss
"When you feel overwhelmed or unfocused, what do you do? What questions do you ask yourself? Have I had enough sleep? Have I eaten? Would it be a good idea to go for a short walk? And once those have been answered, or fixed, if there’s an actual situation that’s overwhelming: Is there anything I can do to fix this? Is there anyone who actually has information or advice about this I can call and talk to? If it’s not actually a situation, just me being sad and moody and unfocused: How long has it been since I actually wrote something? Stop doing whatever else I am doing because it isn’t actually work, and go and write something." -Tim Ferriss
"todo el mundo le interesa lo nuevo. Poca gente se interesa por lo mejor. Si eres el primero en una categoría" -Tim Ferriss
"Así que creo que las tendencias suelen ser cosas que deben evitarse." -Tim Ferriss
"A common rookie error that inexperienced leaders make is always agreeing with the last person they talked to; this takes a while to get past, though it becomes easy once you get exposed to enough people who contradict each other." -Tim Ferriss
"If you are distressed by anything external, the pain is not due to the thing itself, but to your estimate of it; and this you have the power to revoke at any moment.' –Marcus Aurelius Emperor of Rome and Stoic philosopher, author of Meditations" -Tim Ferriss
"Advice I’d give: Make sure you have something every day you’re looking forward to. Maybe it’s your job, maybe it’s a basketball game after work or a voice lesson or your writing group, maybe it’s a date. But have something every day that lights you up. It’ll keep your soul hungry to create more of these moments." -Tim Ferriss
"The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Success byAchieving More with Less (288 pages) BY RICHARD KOCH" -Tim Ferriss
"For me, the goal of 'investing' has always been simple: to allocate resources (e.g., money, time, energy) to improve quality of life. This is a personal definition, as yours likely will be." -Tim Ferriss
"Morgan’s latest project is a tech startup called Clect (clect.com), which is a community and one-stop marketplace where people can browse, sell, and buy collectibles of any type imaginable (Star Wars, Smurfs, comics, a Millennium Falcon made from motorcycle parts, etc.)." -Tim Ferriss
"Escribe sobre cuando supiste que algo se había acabado." -Tim Ferriss
"Everyone struggles. Take solace in that." -Tim Ferriss
"El perfeccionismo genera indecisión, lo cual conduce a la parálisis." -Tim Ferriss
"Lo has intentado. Has fracasado. No importa. Inténtalo de nuevo. Fracasa otra vez. Fracasa mejor'." -Tim Ferriss
"If you learn the auxiliary verbs in your target language, plus the all-important to be, to have, to do, and to go, you can very quickly express any idea.18 Just see the following chart." -Tim Ferriss
"wanted" -Tim Ferriss
"Truth is that which has predictive power." -Tim Ferriss
"«Cuando el 99 por ciento de la gente duda de ti, es porque o estás completamente equivocado, o estás a punto de hacer historia.»" -Tim Ferriss
"Martin Luther King, Jr., famously remarked that 'justice too long delayed is justice denied.' Learning" -Tim Ferriss
"To prevent work for work’s sake, and to do the minimum necessary for maximum effect ('minimum effective load')." -Tim Ferriss
"In the end, a lack of focus is usually just fear: fear that whatever project I’m attempting will go nowhere or fail miserably." -Tim Ferriss
"Man’s Search for Meaning by Viktor E. Frankl The Rational Optimist by Matt Ridley The Better Angels of Our Nature by Steven Pinker Sapiens by Yuval Noah Harari Poor Charlie’s Almanack by Charlie Munger" -Tim Ferriss
"The concept of lifestyle design as a replacement for multi-staged career planning is sound. It’s more flexible and allows you to test different lifestyles without committing to a 10- or 20-year retirement plan that can fail due to market fluctuations outside of your control." -Tim Ferriss
"Tetris as Therapy Have trouble getting to sleep? Try 10 minutes of Tetris. Recent research has demonstrated that Tetris—or Candy Crush Saga or Bejeweled—can help overwrite negative visualization, which has applications for addiction (such as overeating), preventing PTSD, and, in my case, onset insomnia. As Jane explains, due to the visually intensive, problem-solving characteristics of these games: 'You see visual flashbacks [e.g., the blocks falling or the pieces swapping]. They occupy the visual processing center of your brain so that you cannot imagine the thing that you’re craving [or obsessing over, which are also highly visual]. This effect can last 3 or 4 hours. It also turns out that if you play Tetris after witnessing a traumatic event [ideally within 6 hours, but it’s been demonstrated at 24 hours], it prevents flashbacks and lowers symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder." -Tim Ferriss
"When 99 percent of your life is your work, either you are really bad at what you do or you are completely off balance with the rest of your life; neither is something to be proud of. Anytime you see someone preaching, remember that this is smoke and mirrors." -Tim Ferriss
"Hay siete preguntas que Peter recomienda que se formulen a sí mismos todos los fundadores de startups. Consulta su obra De cero a uno" -Tim Ferriss
"If you’ve got enough money to solve the problem, you don’t have the problem.' In the beginning of your career, you spend time to earn money. Once you hit your stride in any capacity, you should spend money to earn time, as the latter is nonrenewable. It can be hard to make and maintain this gear shift, so the above question is in my regular journaling rotation." -Tim Ferriss
"Free education is abundant, all over the Internet. It’s the desire to learn that’s scarce." -Tim Ferriss
"It’s lonely at the top. Ninety-nine percent of people in the world are convinced they are incapable of achieving great things, so they aim for mediocre. The level of competition is thus fiercest for 'realistic' goals, paradoxically making them the most time-consuming. It’s easier to raise $1,000,000 than it is $100,000. It is easier to pick up the one perfect 10 in the bar than the five 8s." -Tim Ferriss
"We live in the age of Alexandria, when every book and every piece of knowledge ever written down is a fingertip away. The means of learning are abundant—it’s the desire to learn that’s scarce." -Tim Ferriss
"Step III: A is for Automation SCOTTY: She’s all yours, sir. All systems automated and ready. A chimpanzee and two trainees could run her! CAPTAIN KIRK: Thank you, Mr. Scott. I’ll try not to take that personally. —STAR TREK" -Tim Ferriss
"Baroque Cycle" -Tim Ferriss
"The NR aims to distribute 'mini-retirements' throughout life instead of hoarding the recovery and enjoyment for the fool’s gold of retirement. By working only when you are most effective, life is both more productive and more enjoyable." -Tim Ferriss
"la hora de valorar un producto nuevo, me centro en sus aspectos novedosos (no en todos ellos) e interpreto de forma exhaustiva cómo pueden impactar en las emociones de los consumidores que lo usen. Después de eso, considero cómo pueden evolucionar esos mismos aspectos con el tiempo." -Tim Ferriss
"Milan Kundera, author of The Unbearable Lightness of Being, has said that 'The stupidity of people comes from having an answer for everything. The wisdom of the novel comes from having a question for everything.' Substitute 'master learner' for 'novel,' and you have my philosophy of life. Often, all that stands between you and what you want is a better set of questions." -Tim Ferriss
"The culture of news is a culture without nuance." -Tim Ferriss
"Note from Tim Ferriss: I asked Tim to share a fun piece of related background. Here it is. In early 2015, Elon reached out to schedule a call. He said he had read some Wait But Why posts and was wondering if I might be interested in writing about some of the industries he’s involved in. I flew out to California to meet with him, tour the Tesla and SpaceX factories, and spend some time with the executives at both companies to learn the full story about what they were doing and why. Over the next six months, I wrote four very long posts about Tesla and SpaceX and the history of the industries surrounding them (during which I had regular conversations with Elon in order to really get to the bottom of the questions I had). In the first three posts, I tried to answer the question, 'Why is Elon doing what he’s doing?' In the fourth and final post of the series, I examined Elon himself and tried to answer the question, 'Why is Elon able to do what he’s doing?' That’s what led me to explore all these ideas around reasoning from first principles (being a 'chef' who comes up with a recipe) versus reasoning by analogy (being a 'cook' who follows someone else’s recipe)." -Tim Ferriss
"Follow Your Passion' Is Terrible Advice 'I think it misconstrues the nature of finding a satisfying career and satisfying job, where the biggest predictor of job satisfaction is mentally engaging work. It’s the nature of the job itself. It’s not got that much to do with you. . . . It’s whether the job provides a lot of variety, gives you good feedback, allows you to exercise autonomy, contributes to the wider world—Is it actually meaningful? Is it making the world better?—and also, whether it allows you to exercise a skill that you’ve developed." -Tim Ferriss
"Everyone has their own journey. People who offer great advice understand that their goal is to help someone on their unique journey. People who offer bad advice are trying to relive their old glories." -Tim Ferriss
"For all of the most important things, the timing always sucks. Waiting for a good time to quit your job? The stars will never align and the traffic lights of life will never all be green at the same time. The universe doesn’t conspire against you, but it doesn’t go out of its way to line up all the pins either. Conditions are never perfect. 'Someday' is a disease that will take your dreams to the grave with you. Pro and con lists are just as bad. If it’s important to you and you want to do it 'eventually,' just do it and correct course along the way." -Tim Ferriss
"of one’s life earning money in order to enjoy a questionable liberty during the least valuable part of it.' We’d love to drop all and explore the world outside, we tell ourselves, but the time never seems right. Thus, given an unlimited amount of choices, we make none. Settling into our lives, we get so obsessed with holding on to our domestic certainties that we forget why we desired them in the first place. Vagabonding is about gaining the courage to loosen your grip on the so-called certainties of this world. Vagabonding is about refusing to exile travel to some other, seemingly more appropriate time of your life. Vagabonding is about taking control of your circumstances instead of passively waiting for them to decide your fate." -Tim Ferriss
"If you need 15 minutes in the sun to trigger a melanin response, 15 minutes is your MED for tanning. More than 15 minutes is redundant and will just result in burning and a forced break from the beach. During this forced break from the beach, let’s assume one week, someone else who heeded his natural 15-minute MED will be able to fit in four more tanning sessions. He is four shades darker, whereas you have returned to your pale pre-beach self." -Tim Ferriss
"Dark means DARK. 'They’ve done studies where they shine a laser on the back of someone’s knee, and people pick it up. It’s light. You cannot have your phone in your room. You cannot have a TV in your room. It needs to be black, black as night." -Tim Ferriss
"Debt, de David Graeber: «Lo recomiendo en versión audiolibro" -Tim Ferriss
"Más no es mejor, y dejar algo a medias suele ser 10 veces mejor que terminarlo. Acostúmbrate a no terminar lo que sea aburrido o improductivo si un jefe no te lo pide." -Tim Ferriss
"Reading (learning) is the ultimate meta-skill and can be traded for anything else. All the real benefits in life come from compound interest. Earn with your mind, not your time. 99% of all effort is wasted. Total honesty at all times. It’s almost always possible to be honest and positive. Praise specifically, criticize generally (Warren Buffett)." -Tim Ferriss
"No olvidamos cuántas veces nos han rechazado." -Tim Ferriss
"What do people agree merely by convention, and what is the truth?" -Tim Ferriss
"busyness serves as a kind of existential reassurance, a hedge against emptiness: Obviously your life cannot possibly be silly or trivial or meaningless if you are so busy, completely booked, in demand every hour of the day. All this noise and rush and stress seem contrived to drown out or cover up some fear at the center of our lives." -Tim Ferriss
"Derek escribió un libro titulado Razones y personas (A." -Tim Ferriss
"If you find yourself saying, 'But I’m making so much money' about a job or project, pay attention. 'But I’m making so much money,' or 'But I’m making good money' is a warning sign that you’re probably not on the right track or, at least, that you shouldn’t stay there for long. Money can always be regenerated. Time and reputation cannot." -Tim Ferriss
"the day before something is truly a breakthrough, it’s a crazy idea. If it wasn’t a crazy idea, it’s not a breakthrough; it’s an incremental improvement." -Tim Ferriss
"What do people agree merely by convention, and what is the truth?’ There’s a consensus of things that people believe to be true. Maybe the conventions are right, and maybe they’re not. And we never want to let a convention be a shortcut for truth. We always need to ask: Is this true? And this is always what I get at with this indirect question: ‘Tell me something that’s true that very few people agree with you on." -Tim Ferriss
"Marc Andreessen (here) long ago referred to the above double-/triple-threat concept, citing Scott’s writing, as 'even the secret formula to becoming a CEO. All successful CEOs are like this.' He reiterated that you could also cultivate this in school by getting unusual combinations of degrees, like engineering + MBA, law degree + MBA, or undergrad physics + economics." -Tim Ferriss
"In other words, the extremes inform the mean, but not vice versa." -Tim Ferriss
"To get an accurate indicator of commercial viability, don’t ask people if they would buy—ask them to buy. The response to the second is the only one that matters." -Tim Ferriss
"Marc es autor de la obra Los delitos del futuro (Ariel, 2015)." -Tim Ferriss
"Wunderlist: app/herramienta de gestión de tareas pendientes para ayudarte a hacer cosas." -Tim Ferriss
"What if [you] just can’t come up with 10 ideas? Here’s the magic trick: If you can’t come up with 10 ideas, come up with 20 ideas. . . . You are putting too much pressure on yourself. Perfectionism is the ENEMY of the idea muscle . . ." -Tim Ferriss
"That you should never publicly criticize anyone or anything unless it is a matter of morals or ethics. Anything negative you say could at the very least ruin someone’s day, or worse, break someone’s heart, or simply change someone from being a future ally of yours to someone who will never forget that you were unkind or unfairly critical. It’s so common today to complain or criticize others’ work on social media, or dogpile on someone for a perceived offense. I won’t do it. It’s not my job to be the world’s critic, and I’d rather not rule out any future allies." -Tim Ferriss
"lo que he dicho es que no todo el mundo debe seguir los mismos pasos." -Tim Ferriss
"«Sé cuánto os repatea ver cómo me lo paso, pero ¿a que no adivináis dónde estoy?»." -Tim Ferriss
"Students are subordinate to materials, much like novice cooks are subordinate to recipes. If you select the wrong material, the wrong textbook, the wrong group of words, it doesn’t matter how much (or how well) you study. It doesn’t matter how good your teacher is. One must find the highest-frequency material. Material beats method." -Tim Ferriss
"If you’re over 40 and don’t smoke, there’s about a 70 to 80% chance you’ll die from one of four diseases: heart disease, cerebrovascular disease, cancer, or neurodegenerative disease." -Tim Ferriss
"God will not have his work made manifest by cowards.'—Ralph Waldo Emerson" -Tim Ferriss
"verdad es que el entorno que te rodea sí importa.»" -Tim Ferriss
"What I discovered, which is what many writers discover, is that I write in order to think. I’d say, ‘I think I have an idea,’ but when I begin to write it, I realize, ‘I have no idea,’ and I don’t actually know what I think until I try and write it. . . . That was the revelation." -Tim Ferriss
"Así que no podemos obedecer más que los demás para competir con ellos. Por tanto, tenemos que superar a los demás en cuanto a capacidad de liderazgo y de resolución de problemas…" -Tim Ferriss
"We create stress for ourselves because you feel like you have to do it. You have to. I don’t feel that anymore." -Tim Ferriss
"Most people exist between the on and off switch. They are unable to turn on and put out high power, and they are unable to turn off completely and enjoy true rest." -Tim Ferriss
"What Blessings in Excess Have Become a Curse? Where Do You Have Too Much of a Good Thing?" -Tim Ferriss
"BJ Miller BJ Miller (TW: @zenhospice, zenhospice.org) is a palliative care physician at the University of California at San Francisco and an advisor to the Zen Hospice Project in San Francisco. He thinks deeply about how to create a dignified, graceful end of life for his patients. He is an expert in death. Through that, he’s learned how we can dramatically improve our own lives, often with very small changes. He has guided or been involved with ~1,000 deaths, and he’s spotted patterns we can all learn from. BJ is also a triple amputee due to an electrocution accident in college. His 2015 TED talk, 'What Really Matters at the End of Life,' was among the top 15 most viewed TED talks of 2015." -Tim Ferriss
"«El éxito es: ¿te recuerdan tus hijos por ser el mejor padre? No un padre que les diera todo lo que pedían, sino, ¿serán capaces algún día de contarte lo que sea? ¿Te llamarán cualquier día sin venir a cuento, da igual para qué? ¿Eres la primera persona en la que piensan para pedir consejo? Y, al mismo tiempo, ¿eres capaz de romper moldes en cualquier cosa que decidas ser en la" -Tim Ferriss
"Still struggling with a sense of purpose or mission? Roughly half a dozen people in this book (e.g., Robert Rodriguez) have suggested the book Start with Why by Simon Sinek." -Tim Ferriss
"Yo suelo usar alguna fórmula del tipo: «Gracias por tu comentario. Siempre procuro mejorar. Mientras tanto, espero que encuentres lo que estás buscando»." -Tim Ferriss
"Just Kids, de Patti Smith:" -Tim Ferriss
"What is the book (or books) you’ve given most as a gift, and why? Or what are one to three books that have greatly influenced your life? Books that influenced me the most: The Transformed Cell by Steven A. Rosenberg Mistakes Were Made (but Not by Me) by Carol Tavris and Elliot Aronson Surely You’re Joking, Mr. Feynman! by Richard P. Feynman If you could have a gigantic billboard anywhere with anything on it, what would it say? Are there any quotes you think of often or live your life by? Well, assuming it’s a big billboard, I’d lobby for the following: 'The fundamental cause of the trouble is that in the modern world the stupid are cocksure while the intelligent are full of doubt.'—Bertrand Russell 'For the great enemy of truth is very often not the lie—deliberate, contrived and dishonest—but the myth—persistent, persuasive, and unrealistic. Too often we hold fast to the clichés of our forebears. We subject all facts to a prefabricated set of interpretations. We enjoy the comfort of opinion without the discomfort of thought.'—John F. Kennedy 'No problem can be solved from the same level of consciousness that created it.'—Albert Einstein 'If you set a goal, it should meet these two conditions: 1) It matters; 2) You can influence the outcome.'—Peter Attia" -Tim Ferriss
"If you must play, decide on three things at the start: the rules of the game, the stakes, and the quitting time." -Tim Ferriss
"Ho imparato che niente e impossibile, e anche che quasi niente e facile … (I’ve learned that nothing is impossible, and that almost nothing is easy …)" -Tim Ferriss
"Álbum para «activarse»: «One-X», de Three Days Grace." -Tim Ferriss
"find" -Tim Ferriss
"I think up through probably 35, I was very much a control freak, because the size of the organizations I commanded, and I was part of, were small enough where I could micromanage them. I had a fairly forceful personality, and if you worked hard and studied hard, you could just about move all the chess pieces, no problem. Around age 35 to 40, as you get up to battalion level, which is about 600 people, suddenly, you’re going to have to lead it a different way, and what you’re really going to have to do is develop people. The advice I’d give to anyone young is it’s really about developing people who are going to do the work. Unless you are going to go do the task yourself, then the development time you spend on the people who are going to do that task, whether they are going to lead people doing it or whether they are actually going to do it, every minute you spend on that is leveraged, is exponential return." -Tim Ferriss
"There is nothing more powerful than failure to reveal to you what you are truly capable of." -Tim Ferriss
"Where in your life are you good at moderation? Where are you an all-or-nothing type? Where do you lack a shut-off switch? It pays to know thyself." -Tim Ferriss
"when you get on the field, you’ll have to start from scratch, turning that paper knowledge into practical knowledge." -Tim Ferriss
"The Baroque Cycle would be required reading. It is way over the top in capturing the character of Newton and his contemporaries, and the science sometimes (intentionally) becomes magical, but with the interwoven sex and violence, it is way too much fun to put down." -Tim Ferriss
"As I write this, I’m sitting in a café in Paris overlooking the Luxembourg Garden, just off of Rue Saint-Jacques. Rue Saint-Jacques is likely the oldest road in Paris, and it has a rich literary history. Victor Hugo lived a few blocks from where I’m sitting. Gertrude Stein drank coffee and F. Scott Fitzgerald socialized within a stone’s throw. Hemingway wandered up and down the sidewalks, his books percolating in his mind, wine no doubt percolating in his blood. I came to France to take a break from everything. No social media, no email, no social commitments, no set plans . . . except one project. The month had been set aside to review all of the lessons I’d learned from nearly 200 world-class performers I’d interviewed on The Tim Ferriss Show, which recently passed 100,000,000 downloads. The guests included chess prodigies, movie stars, four-star generals, pro athletes, and hedge fund managers. It was a motley crew. More than a handful of them had since become collaborators in business and creative projects, spanning from investments to indie film. As a result, I’d absorbed a lot of their wisdom outside of our recordings, whether over workouts, wine-infused jam sessions, text message exchanges, dinners, or late-night phone calls. In every case, I’d gotten to know them well beyond the superficial headlines in the media. My life had already improved in every area as a result of the lessons I could remember. But that was the tip of the iceberg. The majority of the gems were still lodged in thousands of pages of transcripts and hand-scribbled notes. More than anything, I longed for the chance to distill everything into a playbook. So, I’d set aside an entire month for review (and, if I’m being honest, pain au chocolat), to put together the ultimate CliffsNotes for myself. It would be the notebook to end all notebooks. Something that could help me in minutes but be read for a lifetime." -Tim Ferriss
"Learn to confront the challenges of the real world, rather than resort to the protective womb of" -Tim Ferriss
"heart rate variability (HRV) training, meditation, and a number of deep work" -Tim Ferriss
"It’s amazing how someone’s IQ seems to double as soon as you give them responsibility and indicate that you trust them. The first month cost perhaps $200 more than if I had been micromanaging." -Tim Ferriss
"When I started BrainQUICKEN LLC in 2001, it was with a clear goal in mind: Make $1,000 per day whether I was banging my head on a laptop or cutting my toenails on the beach. It was to be an automated source of cash flow. If you look at my chronology, it is obvious that this didn’t happen until a meltdown forced it, despite the requisite income. Why? The goal wasn’t specific enough. I hadn’t defined alternate activities that would replace the initial workload. Therefore, I just continued working, even though there was no financial need. I needed to feel productive and had no other vehicles." -Tim Ferriss
"If we continue to develop our technology without wisdom or prudence, our servant may prove to be our executioner.'—Omar N. Bradley" -Tim Ferriss
"You can do so much in ten minutes’ time. Ten minutes, once gone, are gone for good. Divide your life into ten-minute units and sacrifice as few of them as possible in meaningless activity.' –Ingvar Kamprad" -Tim Ferriss
"I also have in mind that seemingly wealthy, but most terribly impoverished class of all, who have accumulated dross, but know not how to use it, or get rid of it, and thus have forged their own golden or silver fetters. —HENRY DAVID THOREAU (1817–1862)" -Tim Ferriss
"Ludwig Wittgenstein," -Tim Ferriss
"Rule #5: Whenever possible, measure your progress in body fat percentage, NOT total pounds. The scale can deceive and derail you. For instance, it’s common to gain muscle while simultaneously losing fat on the SCD. That’s exactly what you want, but the scale number won’t move, and you will get frustrated. In place of the scale, I use DEXA scans, a BodyMetrix home ultrasound device, or calipers with a gym professional (I recommend the Jackson-Pollock 7-point method)." -Tim Ferriss
"The second thing is, when you are trying to go 10 times bigger, you have to start with a clean sheet of paper, and you approach the problem completely differently. I’ll give you my favorite example: Tesla. How did Elon start Tesla and build from scratch the safest, most extraordinary car, not even in America, but I think in the world? It’s by not having a legacy from the past to drag into the present. That’s important." -Tim Ferriss
"Distress refers to harmful stimuli that make you weaker, less confident, and less able. Destructive criticism, abusive bosses, and smashing your face on a curb are examples of this. These are things we want to avoid." -Tim Ferriss
"I wake up each day with the firm conviction that I am nowhere near my full potential. ‘Greatness’ is a verb.' These words came to me one morning in a flash of awareness and insight. I have miles to go before I sleep, and so I will spend my remaining years desperately looking to improve who I am from year to year. Greatness is not a final destination, but a series of small acts done daily in order to constantly rejuvenate and refresh our skills in a daily effort to become a better version of ourselves." -Tim Ferriss
"Los libros no están para mostrar lo inteligente y cultivado que eres." -Tim Ferriss
"Language" -Tim Ferriss
"The Passion Trap: How to Right an Unbalanced Relationship by relationship therapist and psychologist Dean C. Delis." -Tim Ferriss
"«Que debes dar prioridad a aumentar tus seguidores en las redes sociales (Instagram, FB, Twitter, Snapchat, YouTube)." -Tim Ferriss
"Success' need not be complicated. Just start with making 1,000 people extremely, extremely happy. Kevin" -Tim Ferriss
"Jones’s tongue-in-cheek parable was used to highlight one of the dangers of hero worship:The top 1% often succeed despite how they train, not because of it. Superior genetics, or a luxurious full-time schedule, make up for it....And then there is the second danger of hero worship:Career specialists can’t externalize what they’ve internalized. Second nature is hard to teach." -Tim Ferriss
"When you feel overwhelmed or unfocused, what do you do? In my photos on my phone, I made an album called 'calm.' I have photos and videos of my animals, funny pictures, memes, inspiring quotes, articles about neurology, gratitude lists, all sorts of things that make me smile and reconnect to my source. It’s like my own personal digital Zen museum." -Tim Ferriss
"what a beautiful metaphor this is for not mistaking the husk—the outer accoutrements of productivity like busyness, or a full calendar, or a clever auto-responder—not mistaking those for the kernel, the core and substance of the actual work produced. And he then says, ‘Those who work much, do not work hard.’ I" -Tim Ferriss
"If I asked you to spend $1 billion improving the world, solving a problem, what would you pursue?" -Tim Ferriss
"The truth is that you need the success of everyone in your field in order to achieve your own success. Creativity operates differently. You work hard because you’re inspired to, not because you have to. Work becomes fun, and you have energy for days because this life is not a 'young man’s game.' It is an 'inspired person’s game.' The keys belong to whoever is inspired, and no specific age, sex, gender, or cultural background has a monopoly on inspiration. When you’re creative, you render competition obsolete, because there is only one you, and no one can do things exactly the way you do. Never worry about the competition. When you’re creative, you can, in fact, cheer others on with the full knowledge that their success will undoubtedly be your own." -Tim Ferriss
"The moment that you feel that, just possibly, you’re walking down the street naked, exposing too much of your heart and your mind and what exists on the inside, showing too much of yourself. That’s the moment you may be starting to get it right." -Tim Ferriss
"new about it. You don’t notice the idiosyncrasies that need to be tweaked. You don’t notice where the gaps are, what’s missing, or what’s not really working.' TF: Just like Malcolm Gladwell’s dad (see page 573) and Alex Blumberg (page 303), Chris" -Tim Ferriss
"By using money as the scapegoat and work as our all-consuming routine, we are able to conveniently disallow ourselves the time to do otherwise: 'John, I’d love to talk about the gaping void I feel in my life, the hopelessness that hits me like a punch in the eye every time I start my computer in the morning, but I have so much work to do! I’ve got at least three hours of unimportant e-mail to reply to before calling the prospects who said ‘no’ yesterday. Gotta run!" -Tim Ferriss
"The future is already here—it is just unevenly distributed." -Tim Ferriss
"Always take jobs for which you are not qualified; that way you will inevitably learn something." -Tim Ferriss
"Reinforced by research in game design, Jack Stack and Western Electric’s results can be condensed into a simple equation: measurement = motivation." -Tim Ferriss
"Eating Out Jar, Happiness Jar, and others." -Tim Ferriss
"#2—Meditate (10 to 20 minutes)" -Tim Ferriss
"Give your good bacteria an upgrade and get your microbiome in shape. Faster fat-loss and better mental health are just two of the benefits." -Tim Ferriss
"La vida es un deporte de contacto, y los cisnes negros vendrán a visitarte tarde o temprano." -Tim Ferriss
"Happiness, or at least peace, is the sense that nothing is missing in this moment. No desires running amok. It’s okay to have a desire. But pick a big one and pick it carefully. Drop the small ones." -Tim Ferriss
"Always be a student and always be a teacher." -Tim Ferriss
"The factory of the future will have only two employees, a man and a dog. The man will be there to feed the dog. The dog will be there to keep the man from touching the equipment." -Tim Ferriss
"Dreamlining is so named because it applies timelines to what most would consider dreams. It is much like goal-setting but differs in several fundamental respects: 1. The goals shift from ambiguous wants to defined steps. 2. The goals have to be unrealistic to be effective. 3. It focuses on activities that will fill the vacuum created when work is removed. Living like a millionaire requires doing interesting things and not just owning enviable things." -Tim Ferriss
"Doughnuts are a normal part of a healthy, balanced diet. —Brooke Smith, Krispy Kreme spokeswoman" -Tim Ferriss
"The moment I start one of these three behaviors—blaming, complaining, or gossiping—I become negative. It is a sign of avoiding what I am responsible for: my life." -Tim Ferriss
"If you could have a gigantic billboard anywhere with anything on it, what would it say and why? I would need three billboards: 'Don’t let the weight of fear weigh down the joy of curiosity.' Fear is really false evidence appearing real. 'The great majority of that which gives you angst never happens, so you must evict it.' Don’t let it live rent-free in your brain. 'Attitude puts aptitude on steroids.' Attitude is the soft stuff, but when the chips are down, as they so often are, it’s the soft stuff that often counts. What advice would you give to a smart, driven college student about to enter the 'real world'? The seminal change in the business from then to now is that a young person should view the career pyramid differently rather than traditionally. Put the point at the bottom where you are now (at the start of your career) and conceive your future as an expanding opportunity horizon where you can move laterally across the spectrum in search of an ever-widening set of career opportunities. Reinvent yourself regularly. See your world as an ever-increasing set of realities and seize the day." -Tim Ferriss
"Related—'What is the best or most worthwhile investment you’ve made?' Lasik surgery." -Tim Ferriss
"The key in a restaurant, and the key in any kind of high-pressure situation, I think, is that 75% of success is staying calm and not losing your nerve. The rest you figure out, but once you lose your calm, everything else starts falling apart fast." -Tim Ferriss
"Cartas de un maestro de zen (Dharma, 1998).»" -Tim Ferriss
"Creativity is an infinite resource. The more you spend,the more you have.' This was Chase paraphrasing a quote from Maya Angelou and discussing how creativity and meditation are similar." -Tim Ferriss
"• Eat decent quantities of fat at each larger meal. Saturated fat is fine if meat is untreated with antibiotics and hormones. • Spend at least 30 minutes eating lunch and dinner. Breakfasts can be smaller and thus consumed more quickly. • Experiment with cinnamon and lemon juice just prior to or during meals. • Use the techniques in 'Damage Control' for accidental and planned binges. Keep in mind that the techniques in that chapter will help you minimize damage for about 24 hours, not much more." -Tim Ferriss
"La persona que despeja el camino es la que controla en última instancia su dirección, de la misma manera que el lienzo da forma al cuadro." -Tim Ferriss
"The worst thing you can ever do is think that you know enough." -Tim Ferriss
"Our next reads are Stretch by Scott Sonenshein and Lead Yourself First by Kethledge and Erwin." -Tim Ferriss
"His friends, drunk to the point of speaking in tongues, were asleep." -Tim Ferriss
"Normalmente nunca quieres formar parte de una tendencia popular. No quieres ser la cuarta empresa que vende comida para mascotas por internet a finales de la década de 1990." -Tim Ferriss
"Don’t follow a model that doesn’t work. If the recipe sucks, it doesn’t matter how good a cook you are." -Tim Ferriss
"Way of Life app." -Tim Ferriss
"The first principle is that you must not fool yourself, and you are the easiest person to fool. —RICHARD P. FEYNMAN, Nobel Prize–winning physicist" -Tim Ferriss
"In many of my public talks, I guide a very simple 10-second exercise. I tell the audience members to each identify two human beings in the room and just think, 'I wish for this person to be happy, and I wish for that person to be happy.' That is it. I remind them to not do or say anything, just think—this is an entirely thinking exercise. The entire exercise is just 10 seconds’ worth of thinking. Everybody emerges from this exercise smiling, happier than 10 seconds before. This is the joy of loving-kindness. It turns out that being on the giving end of a kind thought is rewarding in and of itself. . . . All other things being equal, to increase your happiness, all you have to do is randomly wish for somebody else to be happy. That is all. It basically takes no time and no effort. How far can you push this joy of loving-kindness? One time, I gave a public talk in a meditation center called Spirit Rock in California. As usual, I guided the audience in this 10-second exercise, and just for fun, I assigned them homework. I was speaking on a Monday evening, and the next day, Tuesday, was a work day, so I told the audience to do this exercise for Tuesday: Once an hour, every hour, randomly identify two people walking past your office and secretly wish for each of them to be happy. You don’t have to do or say anything—just think, 'I wish for this person to be happy.' And since nobody knows what you’re thinking, it’s not embarrassing—you can do this exercise entirely in stealth. And after 10 seconds of doing that, go back to work. That’s all. On Wednesday morning that week, I received an email from a total stranger, Jane (not her real name). Jane told me, 'I hate my job. I hate coming to work every single day. But I attended your talk on Monday, did the homework on Tuesday, and Tuesday was my happiest day in 7 years.' Happiest day in 7 years. And what did it take to achieve that? It took 10 seconds of secretly wishing for two other people to be happy for 8 repetitions, a total of 80 seconds of thinking. That, my friends, is the awesome power of loving-kindness." -Tim Ferriss
"If you don’t have cancer and you do a therapeutic fast 1 to 3 times per year, you could purge any precancerous cells that may be living in your body." -Tim Ferriss
"Sometimes, whether in the world of fire-making or cooking, finding the path of least resistance is as easy as Googling 'backward,' 'upside-down,' or 'reverse,' plus whatever skill you’re deconstructing." -Tim Ferriss
"What advice would you give to a smart, driven college student about to enter the 'real world'? What advice should they ignore? I thought about this a lot when I gave the commencement address at MIT back in 2013. I said that if I had a cheat sheet I could give myself at 22, it would have three things on it: a tennis ball, a circle, and the number 30,000. The tennis ball is about finding something that you can become obsessed with, like my childhood dog who would go crazy whenever anyone threw a ball for her. The most successful people I know are all obsessed with solving a problem that really matters to them. The circle refers to the idea that you’re the average of your five closest friends. Make sure to put yourself in an environment that pulls the best out of you. And the last is the number 30,000. When I was 24, I came across a website that says most people live for about 30,000 days—and I was shocked to find that I was already 8,000 days down. So you have to make every day count. I’d give the same advice today, but I would clarify that it’s not just about passion or following your dreams. Make sure the problem you become obsessed with is one that needs solving and is one where your contribution can make a difference. As Y Combinator says, 'Make something people want." -Tim Ferriss
"In a world of distraction, single-tasking is a superpower." -Tim Ferriss
"Who are the 20% of people who produce 80% of your enjoyment and propel you forward, and which 20% cause 80% of your depression, anger, and second-guessing? Identify: Positive friends versus time-consuming friends: Who is helping versus hurting you, and how do you increase your time with the former while decreasing or eliminating your time with the latter?" -Tim Ferriss
"You will think it failed for Reason 1, but it failed for Reasons 1 through 5. And so the next business you start will fail for Reason 2, and then for 3 and so on." -Tim Ferriss
"Being financially rich and having the ability to live like a millionaire are fundamentally two very different things." -Tim Ferriss
"Friendship is born at the moment when one person says to another: ‘What? You too? I thought I was the only one.’'—C. S. Lewis" -Tim Ferriss
"Language learning deserves special mention. It is, bar none, the best thing you can do to hone clear thinking." -Tim Ferriss
"And when—despite your best efforts—you feel like you’re losing at the game of life, remember: Even the best of the best sometimes feel this way." -Tim Ferriss
"Cuando te obliguen a llegar a un acuerdo, pide más." -Tim Ferriss
"The books Superforecasting (by Philip E. Tetlock and Dan Gardner) and How to Measure Anything (by Douglas W. Hubbard) have some good advice on how to improve your ability to make accurate predictions. And Decisive (by Chip Heath and Dan Heath) explains four of the biggest judgment errors (like framing your decision too narrowly, or letting temporary emotions cloud your judgment) and gives tips for combating them." -Tim Ferriss
"The disease of our times is that we live on the surface. We’re like the Platte River, a mile wide and an inch deep. I always say, 'If you want to become a billionaire, invent something that will allow people to indulge their own Resistance.' Somebody did invent it. It’s called the Internet. Social media. That wonderland where we can flit from one superficial, jerkoff distraction to another, always remaining on the surface, never going deeper than an inch. Real work and real satisfaction come from the opposite of what the web provides. They come from going deep into something—the book you’re writing, the album, the movie—and staying there for a long, long time." -Tim Ferriss
"Pain is never out of season if you go shopping for it." -Tim Ferriss
"case—a tolerable and comfortable existence doing something unfulfilling. The last is most common and most insidious." -Tim Ferriss
"If you want to be successful, surround yourself with people who are more successful than you are, but if you want to be happy, surround yourself with people who are less successful than you are." -Tim Ferriss
"Out on the edge you see all kinds of things you can’t see from the center. Big, undreamed-of things—the people on the edge see them first.' —Kurt Vonnegut" -Tim Ferriss
"You can be a juicy ripe peach and there’ll still be someone who doesn’t like peaches." -Tim Ferriss
"Man is so made that he can only find relaxation from one kind of labor by taking up another. —ANATOLE FRANCE, author of The Crime of Sylvestre Bonnard" -Tim Ferriss
"Adversity doesn't create character; it reveals it." -Tim Ferriss
"What advice would you give to a smart, driven college student about to enter the 'real world'? When in doubt, let kindness and compassion guide you. And don’t be afraid to fail." -Tim Ferriss
"have an enormous bank of favors to call upon down the road. That’s what the canvas strategy is about—helping yourself by helping others. Making a concerted effort to trade your short-term gratification for a longer-term payoff. Whereas everyone else wants to get credit and be 'respected,' you can forget credit. You can forget it so hard that you’re glad when others get it instead of you—that was your aim, after all. Let the others take their credit on credit, while you defer and earn interest on the principal." -Tim Ferriss
"It doesn’t take much to seem superhuman and appear 'successful' to nearly everyone around you. In fact, you just need one rule: What you do is more important than how you do everything else, and doing something well does not make it important." -Tim Ferriss
"As legendary hedge fund manager Ray Dalio told Tony Robbins (page 210): 'It’s almost certain that whatever you’re going to put your money in, there will come a day when you will lose 50% to 70%.' It pays to remember that if you lose 50%, you need a subsequent 100% return to get back to where you started. That math is tough." -Tim Ferriss
"Here are two truisms to keep in mind: 1. Doing something unimportant well does not make it important. 2. Requiring a lot of time does not make a task important. From this moment forward, remember this: What you do is infinitely more important than how you do it. Efficiency is still important, but it is useless unless applied to the right things." -Tim Ferriss
"Muneeb Ali" -Tim Ferriss
"Early to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy, and wise." -Tim Ferriss
"lugar para elegir entre una amplia selección es VintageWesternWear.com. Una camisa puede parecer poca cosa," -Tim Ferriss
"One does not accumulate but eliminate.It is not daily increase but dailydecrease. The height of cultivationalways runs to simplicity. —BRUCE LEE" -Tim Ferriss
"Love of bustle is not industry. —SENECA" -Tim Ferriss
"Perfection is not when there is no more to add, but no more to take away.' –Antoine de Saint-Exupéry French writer, author of The Little Prince" -Tim Ferriss
"At the individual level Swaraj is vitally connected with the capacity for dispassionate self-assessment, ceaseless self-purification and growing self-reliance.… It is Swaraj when we learn to rule ourselves." -Tim Ferriss
"Ahora sólo necesita saber cómo explotar su libertad y dar con las herramientas que le permitan vivir con su dinero finito una vida de posibilidades casi infinitas." -Tim Ferriss
"Personally, I suck at efficiency (doing things quickly). To compensate and cope, here’s my 8-step process for maximizing efficacy (doing the right things): Wake up at least 1 hour before you have to be at a computer screen. Email is the mind-killer. Make a cup of tea (I like pu-erh) and sit down with a pen/pencil and paper. Write down the 3 to 5 things—and no more—that are making you the most anxious or uncomfortable. They’re often things that have been punted from one day’s to-do list to the next, to the next, to the next, and so on. Most important usually equals most uncomfortable, with some chance of rejection or conflict. For each item, ask yourself: 'If this were the only thing I accomplished today, would I be satisfied with my day?' 'Will moving this forward make all the other to-dos unimportant or easier to knock off later?' Put another way: 'What, if done, will make all of the rest easier or irrelevant?' Look only at the items you’ve answered 'yes' to for at least one of these questions. Block out at 2 to 3 hours to focus on ONE of them for today. Let the rest of the urgent but less important stuff slide. It will still be there tomorrow. TO BE CLEAR: Block out at 2 to 3 HOURS to focus on ONE of them for today. This is ONE BLOCK OF TIME. Cobbling together 10 minutes here and there to add up to 120 minutes does not work. No phone calls or social media allowed. If you get distracted or start procrastinating, don’t freak out and downward-spiral; just gently come back to your ONE to-do. Congratulations! That’s it. This is the only way I can create big outcomes despite my never-ending impulse to procrastinate, nap, and otherwise fritter away days with bullshit. If I have 10 important things to do in a day, it’s 100% certain nothing important will get done that day. On the other hand, I can usually handle one must-do item and block out my lesser behaviors for 2 to 3 hours a day. It doesn’t take much to seem superhuman and appear 'successful' to nearly everyone around you. In fact, you just need one rule: What you do is more important than how you do everything else, and doing something well does not make it important. If you consistently feel the counterproductive need for volume and doing lots of stuff, put these on a Post-it note: Being busy is a form of laziness—lazy thinking and indiscriminate action. Being busy is most often used as a guise for avoiding the few critically important but uncomfortable actions." -Tim Ferriss
"If it’s not ready, we’re not going to send it out, and just hope they don’t notice that it’s not that good. We’ll fix it. We’ll do something else, but don’t try to slip by something that you know is below the standard.’ You" -Tim Ferriss
"Generally, I’ll listen to an audiobook like The Graveyard Book by Neil Gaiman during the heat, then cool off for 5 to 10 minutes using an ice bath (I put 40 pounds of ice in a large bath to get it to roughly 45°F; more details on page 43) and/or by drinking ice water. I’ll repeat this cycle 2 to 4 times." -Tim Ferriss
"El objetivo es divertirse y ganar dinero." -Tim Ferriss
"Humans are imperfect creatures. You don’t 'succeed' because you have no weaknesses; you succeed because you find your unique strengths and focus on developing habits around them." -Tim Ferriss
"One does not accumulate but eliminate.It is not daily increase but dailydecrease. The height of cultivationalways runs to simplicity." -Tim Ferriss
"ten un respaldo'». Si tienes dos cosas de algo y se te rompe o pierdes una, te queda otra;" -Tim Ferriss
"To justify their avoidance of embarrassment, the whole profession tells the rest of us, based on 'extensive scientific studies,' that black is white." -Tim Ferriss
"¿Qué es lo que te entusiasma de verdad?'. Porque me interesa más lo que impulsa y motiva a alguien y lo hace levantarse de la cama cada mañana, que una lista con las típicas casillas curriculares.»" -Tim Ferriss
"In contrast, something as simple as pre-scheduled workouts acts as scaffolding around which you can more effectively plan and execute your day. This gives you a greater sense of agency and feeling of freedom. Jocko adds, 'It also means that if you want freedom in life—be that financial freedom, more free time, or even freedom from sickness and poor health—you can only achieve these things through discipline." -Tim Ferriss
"Hi Tim, Patience. Far too soon to expect strength improvements. Strength improvements [for a movement like this] take a minimum of 6 weeks. Any perceived improvements prior to that are simply the result of improved synaptic facilitation. In plain English, the central nervous system simply became more efficient at that particular movement with practice. This is, however, not to be confused with actual strength gains. Dealing with the temporary frustration of not making progress is an integral part of the path towards excellence. In fact, it is essential and something that every single elite athlete has had to learn to deal with. If the pursuit of excellence was easy, everyone would do it. In fact, this impatience in dealing with frustration is the primary reason that most people fail to achieve their goals. Unreasonable expectations timewise, resulting in unnecessary frustration, due to a perceived feeling of failure. Achieving the extraordinary is not a linear process. The secret is to show up, do the work, and go home. A blue collar work ethic married to indomitable will. It is literally that simple. Nothing interferes. Nothing can sway you from your purpose. Once the decision is made, simply refuse to budge. Refuse to compromise. And accept that quality long-term results require quality long-term focus. No emotion. No drama. No beating yourself up over small bumps in the road. Learn to enjoy and appreciate the process. This is especially important because you are going to spend far more time on the actual journey than with those all too brief moments of triumph at the end. Certainly celebrate the moments of triumph when they occur. More importantly, learn from defeats when they happen. In fact, if you are not encountering defeat on a fairly regular basis, you are not trying hard enough. And absolutely refuse to accept less than your best. Throw out a timeline. It will take what it takes. If the commitment is to a long-term goal and not to a series of smaller intermediate goals, then only one decision needs to be made and adhered to. Clear, simple, straightforward. Much easier to maintain than having to make small decision after small decision to stay the course when dealing with each step along the way. This provides far too many opportunities to inadvertently drift from your chosen goal. The single decision is one of the most powerful tools in the toolbox. 2 Wealthy 'If you set your goals ridiculously high and it’s a failure, you will fail above everyone else’s success.' —James Cameron" -Tim Ferriss
"sir.’ The implication is obvious: If I have problems, I’m going to handle them. I’m going to take care of them, and I’m not going to complain. I took extreme ownership of my world. The way that worked was twofold. When I did need something, it was something significant, it was something real. And when I told the Commodore, ‘Hey, boss, we need this right here,’ I would get it almost instantaneously" -Tim Ferriss
"When Kurt Vonnegut wrote ‘Write to please just one person,’ what he was really saying was write for yourself. Don’t try to please anyone but yourself. . . . The second you start doing it for an audience, you’ve lost the long game because creating something that is rewarding and sustainable over the long run requires, most of all, keeping yourself excited about it. . . . Trying to predict what [an audience will] be interested in and kind of pretzeling yourself to fit those expectations, you soon begin to begrudge it and become embittered—and it begins to show in the work. It always, always shows in the work when you resent it. And there’s really nothing less pleasurable to read than embittered writing." -Tim Ferriss
"The number 1,000 is not absolute. Its significance is in its rough order of magnitude—3 orders less than a million. The actual number has to be adjusted for each person. If you are able to only earn $50 per year per true fan, then you need 2,000. (Likewise, if you can sell $200 per year, you need only 500 true fans.) Or you may need only $75K per year to live on, so you adjust downward. Or if you are a duet, or have a partner, then you need to multiply by 2 to get 2,000 fans, etc. Another way to calculate the support of a true fan is to aim to get one day of their wages per year. Can you excite or please them sufficiently to earn what they make from one day’s labor? That’s a high bar, but not impossible for 1,000 people worldwide." -Tim Ferriss
"clarity of writing indicates clarity of thinking" -Tim Ferriss
"Just because you are embarrassed to admit that you’re still living the consequences of bad decisions made 5, 10, or 20 years ago shouldn’t stop you from making good decisions now. If you let pride stop you, you will hate life 5, 10, and 20 years from now for the same reasons." -Tim Ferriss
"El «acondicionamiento hipertérmico» (o exposición controlada al calor) ayuda a aumentar la producción de la hormona del crecimiento y mejora considerablemente la resistencia." -Tim Ferriss
"What are the kinds of key things that might be constraints on a solution, or might be the attributes of a solution, and what are tools or assets I might have? . " -Tim Ferriss
"#5—You can’t reason someone out of something they didn’t reason themselves into. #6—'Trying to get everyone to like you is a sign of mediocrity. You’ll avoid the tough decisions, and you’ll avoid confronting the people who need to be confronted.'—Colin Powell #7—'If you want to improve, be content to be thought foolish and stupid.'—Epictetus Cato" -Tim Ferriss
"Is your weekend really free if you find a crisis in the inbox Saturday morning that you can’t address until Monday morning? Even if the inbox scan lasts 30 seconds, the preoccupation and forward projection for the subsequent 48 hours effectively deletes that experience from your life. You had time but you didn’t have attention, so the time had no practical value." -Tim Ferriss
"There should never be more than two mission-critical items to complete each day. Never. It just isn’t necessary if they’re actually high-impact. If you are stuck trying to decide between multiple items that all seem crucial, as happens to all of us, look at each in turn and ask yourself, If this is the only thing I accomplish today, will I be satisfied with my day?" -Tim Ferriss
"word choice and ordering (diction and syntax). He" -Tim Ferriss
"Service to others is the rent you pay for your room here on earth.' –Muhammad Ali Legendary American professional boxer and activist" -Tim Ferriss
"當你發現一個很簡單的事實，人生就會寬廣得多。所謂『生活』周中的種種，都是由才智不如你的人所組成造。你能加以影響，加以改變，打造出其他有益別人的好東西。一旦你有這個領悟，就不再是以前的自己了。'Excerpt From: 提摩西．費里斯（Timothy Ferriss）. '人生勝利聖經.' Apple Books." -Tim Ferriss
"Ignore the unfairness—there is no fair. Play the hand that you’re dealt to the best of your ability. People are highly consistent, so you will eventually get what you deserve and so will they. In the end, everyone gets the same judgment: death." -Tim Ferriss
"Ultimately, your gift to the world is being who you are. It is both your gift and your fulfillment." -Tim Ferriss
"When you launch a new product, the first question to ask yourself is not 'How is this new product better than the competition?' but 'First what?' In other words, what category is this new product first in?" -Tim Ferriss
"Life shrinks or expands in proportion to one’s courage.' It’s a short reminder that success can usually be measured by the number of uncomfortable conversations we are willing to have, and by the number of uncomfortable actions we are willing to take." -Tim Ferriss
"Genghis Khan y el inicio del mundo moderno (Crítica, DL 2006)." -Tim Ferriss
"The Barefoot Investor by Scott Pape." -Tim Ferriss
"Those moments show me that this whole thing is bigger than me. It’s the realization that there is a 'will to pleasure,' a 'will to power' and, in the words of Viktor Frankl, a 'will to meaning.' You won’t take a bullet for pleasure or power, but you will for meaning." -Tim Ferriss
"John Dewey’s dictum that 'a problem well put is half-solved" -Tim Ferriss
"Milan Kundera, author of The Unbearable Lightness of Being, has said that 'The stupidity of people comes from having an answer for everything. The wisdom of the novel comes from having a question for everything." -Tim Ferriss
"Incineration does not equal human digestion; eating a fireplace log will not store the same number of calories as burning one will produce." -Tim Ferriss
"if my billboard were in Marin County (or another big cycling destination) it would just say, 'When my legs hurt, I say, ‘Shut up, legs! Do what I tell you to do!’' This gem is from Jens Voigt, a legendary cyclist who is famous for his willingness to work extra hard for his team, no matter how fatigued or injured. Building a startup is very much an endurance sport, and cycling never fails to provide an inspirational anecdote, quote, or metaphor. Another Voigt favorite is, 'If it hurts me, it must hurt the other ones twice as much." -Tim Ferriss
"Note to the ladies, for whom peanut butter seems to be like crack: the tablespoon scoop should be no more than a small mound, not half the jar balanced on a spoon." -Tim Ferriss
"If you can’t measure it, you can’t improve it." -Tim Ferriss
"She is the author of Unstoppable: My Life So Far." -Tim Ferriss
"Laird was one of my surfing teachers in my TV series, The Tim Ferriss Experiment," -Tim Ferriss
"Time without attention is worthless, so value attention over time." -Tim Ferriss
"Segundo: ¡los entrevistadores, aburridos de sus propios trabajos, se pasarán toda la reunión preguntándote cómo lo hiciste! Si te preguntan por un casual por qué te tomaste ese tiempo o dejaste tu trabajo anterior, sólo hay una respuesta irrebatible: «Se me presentó una oportunidad de esas que aparecen una vez en la vida de [experiencia exótica que da envidia] y no pude rechazarla. Pensé que, como aún tengo por delante [20-40] años de vida productiva, ¿qué prisa había?»." -Tim Ferriss
"Remembering that destination will help you make the single most important distinction in life, which is to distinguish between an opportunity to be seized and a temptation to be resisted." -Tim Ferriss
"NR: To have others work for you." -Tim Ferriss
"The Dance of Anger by Harriet Lerner (so helpful for couples in that 'I’m screaming and he’s/she’s shutting down' cycle) and her new book, Why Won’t You Apologize?" -Tim Ferriss
"The New Rich (NR) are those who abandon the deferred-life plan [save and retire after 20–40 years] and create luxury lifestyles in the present using the currency of the New Rich: time and mobility." -Tim Ferriss
"When you’re earlier in your career, I think the best strategy is to just say ‘yes’ to everything. Every little gig. You just never know what are the lottery tickets." -Tim Ferriss
"Breathturn' by Hammock 'Your Hand in Mine' by Explosions in the Sky 'Devi Prayer' by Craig Pruess and Ananda 'Horizon' by Tycho 'Recurring' by Bonobo 'Hanging On' by Active Child 'Long Time Sun' by Snatam Kaur 'Angels Prayer' by Ty Burhoe, James Hoskins, Cat McCarthy, Manorama, and Janaki Kagel 'Twentytwofourteen' by The Album Leaf" -Tim Ferriss
"ganando dinero para disfrutar de una libertad discutible en la parte menos valiosa de ella»." -Tim Ferriss
"I sometimes find myself torn between two options, and it’s clear to me that the stakes are high, but it’s not at all clear which option is better. So I keep agonizing over the choice, Ping-Ponging back and forth between my options, even though I’m not getting any new information. Fortunately, at some point in this process, I remember this principle: Uncertainty over expected value (EV) just gets folded into EV. So, if I know that one of option A or B is going to be great, and the other’s going to be a disaster, but I’m totally unsure which is which, then they have the same expected value." -Tim Ferriss
"Dude, are you turning into the bald fat man in the red BMW convertible?" -Tim Ferriss
"Named must your fear be before banish it you can.' —Yoda, from Star Wars: The Empire Strikes Back" -Tim Ferriss
"You are the author of your own life, and it’s never too late to replace the stories you tell yourself and the world. It’s never too late to begin a new chapter, add a surprise twist, or change genres entirely." -Tim Ferriss
"The first step is to develop and maintain a low-information diet. Just as modern man consumes both too many calories and calories of no nutritional value, information workers eat data both in excess and from the wrong sources." -Tim Ferriss
"Tirando cenizas sobre el Buda (La Liebre de Marzo, 1991), del maestro zen Seung Sahn," -Tim Ferriss
"Happiness shared in the form of friendships and love is happiness multiplied." -Tim Ferriss
"Brian Koppelman mentioned that he considers Haruki Murakami the world’s best writer of fiction. To boot, Murakami is an excellent long-distance runner. Here is what Murakami has to say about running, which can be applied to anything: Pain is inevitable. Suffering is optional." -Tim Ferriss
"From Japan to Monaco, from globetrotting single mothers to multimillionaire racecar drivers, the basic rules of successful NR are surprisingly uniform and predictably divergent from what the rest of the world is doing." -Tim Ferriss
"A good general strategy is reasoning counterfactually: if someone tells you that X is true, ask yourself—(i) what would they say if X really is true, and (ii) what would they say if X is false? If the answer to (i) and (ii) is 'they will say roughly what they just said now,' then their words provided you with exactly zero information. In general, know when it’s really important not to take people’s words at 100 percent face value." -Tim Ferriss
"Here is what Murakami has to say about running, which can be applied to anything: Pain is inevitable. Suffering is optional. Say you’re running and you think, 'Man, this hurts, I can’t take it anymore.' The 'hurt' part is an unavoidable reality, but whether or not you can stand anymore is up to the runner himself." -Tim Ferriss
"Breaking your rules to co-invest with well-known investors is usually a bad idea, but following your rules when others reject a startup can work out extremely well." -Tim Ferriss
"You can’t blame your boss for not giving you the support you need. Plenty of people will say, ‘It’s my boss’s fault.’ No, it’s actually your fault because you haven’t educated him, you haven’t influenced him, you haven’t explained to him in a manner he understands why you need this support that you need. That’s extreme ownership. Own it all." -Tim Ferriss
"Pero los clientes tienen una mentalidad abierta cuando se trata de categorías." -Tim Ferriss
"information without emotion isn’t retained." -Tim Ferriss
"Parkinson’s Law dictates that a task will swell in (perceived) importance and complexity in relation to the time allotted for its completion. It is the magic of the imminent deadline." -Tim Ferriss
"Experience often deeply embeds the assumptions that need to be questioned in the first place." -Tim Ferriss
"Cuando oigo historias de éxito y fracaso busco las pequeñas cosas que marcaron una gran diferencia." -Tim Ferriss
"Many students come to me full of wonderful intentions hoping to change the world; they plan to spend their time helping the poor and disadvantaged. I tell them to first graduate and make a lot of money, and only then figure out how best to help those in need. Too often students can’t meaningfully help the disadvantaged now, even if it makes them feel good for trying to. I have seen so many former students in their late 30s and 40s struggling to make ends meet. They spent their time in college doing good rather than building their careers and futures. I warn students today to be careful how they use their precious time and to think carefully about when is the right time to help. It’s a well-worn cliché, but you have to help yourself before you help others. This is too often lost on idealistic students. I am often asked whether one should work in the private or public sector. I always advise working in the private sector, and wish I did this before entering politics and the public sector. The private sector teaches important skills like entrepreneurship that can then be applied to any area of work later on." -Tim Ferriss
"¿Cuáles son las verdaderas metas últimas de mi vida, y cómo puedo optimizar para alcanzarlas?'.»" -Tim Ferriss
"Diet and Exercise' → 'Eat and Train' Coach Sommer dislikes the fitness fixation on 'diet and exercise.' He finds it much more productive to focus on 'eat and train.' One is aesthetic, and the other is functional. The former may not have a clear goal, the latter always does." -Tim Ferriss
"Jocko Podcast, uno de los podcasts mejor valorados. Es un" -Tim Ferriss
"I participate in a program called D.E.A.R. which stands for Drop Everything and Read, where a few times a month I come in and read to each class." -Tim Ferriss
"the opposite of happiness is—here’s the clincher—boredom." -Tim Ferriss
"Excellence is the next five minutes, improvement is the next five minutes, happiness is the next five minutes. This doesn’t mean you ignore planning. I encourage you to make huge, ambitious plans. Just remember that the big-beyond-belief things are accomplished when you deconstruct them into the smallest possible pieces and focus on each 'moment of impact,' one step at a time. I’ve had a life full of doubts . . . mostly for no good reason." -Tim Ferriss
"I was also afraid of 'losing my edge,' as if meditation would make me less aggressive or driven. That was unfounded; meditation simply helps you channel drive toward the few things that matter, rather than every moving target and imaginary opponent that pops up." -Tim Ferriss
"Thoreau writes, ‘The really efficient laborer will be found not to crowd his day with work, but will saunter to his task surrounded by a wide halo of ease and leisure. There will be a wide margin for relaxation to his day. He is only earnest to secure the kernels of time, and does not exaggerate the value of the husk.’ Think" -Tim Ferriss
"Bruce Pandolfini, Josh’s original chess teacher, started their first class by taking him in reverse. The board was empty, except for three pieces in an endgame scenario: king and pawn against king." -Tim Ferriss
"Meditate for a Year, Get Benefits for Life?" -Tim Ferriss
"If you’re looking for a formula for greatness, the closest we’ll ever get, I think, is this: Consistency driven by a deep love of the work." -Tim Ferriss
"What would you put on a billboard? '‘YOU ARE GOING TO DIE!’' [TF: CAPS are his.] Shay constantly reminds himself of the shortness of life and inevitability of death. I also build memento mori (reminders of death) into my schedule, whether reading Seneca and other stoicism, spending time with hospice caretakers, visiting graveyards (e.g., Omaha Beach), or placing the memoirs of the recently deceased cover-out in my living room." -Tim Ferriss
"Failure is highly underrated." -Tim Ferriss
"cherylstrayed.com) es" -Tim Ferriss
"The Master Key System by Charles F. Haanel. I have read hundreds of personal development books, but this is the one that clearly showed me how to visualize, contemplate, and focus on what it was I truly wanted. It revealed to me that we only get what we desire most, and to apply myself with a laserlike focus upon a goal, task, or project. That in order to 'have' you must 'do,' and in order to 'do' you must 'be'—and this process is immediate." -Tim Ferriss
"Vagabundear consiste en tomar el control de las circunstancias que te rodean, en lugar de esperar de forma pasiva a que ellas decidan tu suerte." -Tim Ferriss
"Dejar de hacer algo por el mero hecho de que puedes hacerte daño es una razón nefasta para no actuar." -Tim Ferriss
"FriXion by Pilot in blue. It writes so smoothly, and being able to erase it gives me a sense of power and delight. I often use the pen with a 'smart' notebook (like the Rocketbook Everlast smart notebook)" -Tim Ferriss
"Peter Drucker and his book The Effective Executive, as well as Alain de Botton’s (page 486) How Proust Can Change Your Life." -Tim Ferriss
"Surely You’re Joking, Mr. Feynman!, the most-gifted book of several people in this book, as well as in a wonderful short documentary called The Pleasure of Finding Things Out." -Tim Ferriss
"Set aside a certain number of days, during which you shall be content with the scantiest and cheapest fare, with coarse and rough dress, saying to yourself the while: ‘Is this the condition that I feared?’' —Seneca" -Tim Ferriss
"Esto se hace para que «no vuelvas a [las viejas creencias] a través de viejas fórmulas lingüísticas" -Tim Ferriss
"yo decidí darle la vuelta a ese plan y viajar siendo muy joven," -Tim Ferriss
"TF: I bolded the above, as I have many friends who’ve been tested for food intolerances and called me with: 'I’m intolerant to navy beans! Egg whites, too!' Such results don’t necessarily mean you have genetics that disallow these foods. There’s a decent likelihood that A) you’ve simply been consuming too much of the same food and provoked a correctable autoimmune response, or B) the lab has made an error. I’ve seen labs return every patient (dozens) in a given week as intolerant to egg whites. Lab errors happen, equipment malfunctions, and people make mistakes. The moral of the story: Vary your food sources and confirm any scary test results with a second test." -Tim Ferriss
"For Loose Skin or Stretch Marks 'There’s an herb called gotu kola that—I learned this from Dr. Mauro Di Pasquale, who was one of my early mentors—will get rid of what we call unnecessary scar tissue or unnecessary connective tissue. The truth of the matter, though, is that you will see zero progress for the loose skin for 6 months. So people say it’s not worth it, but I tell people, just keep doing it for 6 months. And then it’s almost like overnight. . . . 'There are some compounding pharmacists who will make you a gotu kola bioabsorbable cream. That works a lot faster. I would say if you can find a compounding pharmacist who will do that, and it’s a biologically active form, you could get the same results in about 2 to 3 months.' TF: I asked Charles about oral sources, and he suggested one dropperful of Gaia Herbs Gotu Kola Leaf liquid extract per day, which also improves tendon repair and cognitive function." -Tim Ferriss
"Often I think the paradox is that accepting the requests you receive is at the expense of the quality of the very work—the reason for those requests in the first place—and that’s what you always have to protect." -Tim Ferriss
"Los tres minutos siguientes: «Concentración total en la percepción de la presencia de Dios, por decirlo de alguna manera, o como quieras llamarlo tú." -Tim Ferriss
"No one cares if you are a people person. Have a point of view, and share it meaningfully, thoughtfully, and with conviction." -Tim Ferriss
"Don’t let someone knock you off course before you reach your destination. Trust the work. Always trust the work." -Tim Ferriss
"Develop a philosophy of giving as soon as you enter the working world." -Tim Ferriss
"Tetris as Therapy Have trouble getting to sleep? Try 10 minutes of Tetris. Recent research has demonstrated that Tetris—or Candy Crush Saga or Bejeweled—can help overwrite negative visualization, which has applications for addiction (such as overeating), preventing PTSD," -Tim Ferriss
"Below are the key questions I asked to arrive at this cord-cutting conclusion. I revisit these questions often, usually every month. I hope they help you remove noise and internal conflict from your life. Are You Doing What You’re Uniquely Capable of, What You Feel Placed Here on Earth to Do? Can You Be Replaced?" -Tim Ferriss
"being able to view things as they are as opposed to what everybody says about them," -Tim Ferriss
"When we feel pain in one time zone—meaning past, present, or future—we just switch to another time zone rather than change, because change brings so much uncertainty and so much instability and so much fear to people." -Tim Ferriss
"Jay Abraham is one of Daymond John’s (page 323) mentors and the author of Getting Everything You Can Out of All You’ve Got, which is one of Ramit’s most-gifted books. I often recommend Jay’s work to people who ask about how to structure 'JVs,' or joint ventures." -Tim Ferriss
"Information products are low-cost, fast to manufacture, and time-consuming for competitors to duplicate." -Tim Ferriss
"Money doesn’t change you; it reveals who you are when you no longer have to be nice." -Tim Ferriss
"The best solution is to use both together: Identify the few critical tasks that contribute most to income and schedule them with very short and clear deadlines." -Tim Ferriss
"The Way of Life According to Lao Tzu, the Tao Te Ching as translated by Witter Bynner." -Tim Ferriss
"Put a Post-it on your computer screen or set an Outlook reminder to alert you at least three times daily with the question: Are you inventing things to do to avoid the important?" -Tim Ferriss
"Learning to ignore things is one of the great paths to inner peace.' –Robert J. Sawyer" -Tim Ferriss
"viví experiencias que no podrían comprarse ni con mil millones" -Tim Ferriss
"NR: To be neither the boss nor the employee, but the owner. To own the trains and have someone else ensure they run on time." -Tim Ferriss
"Cuando empiezas en algo podemos estar seguros de varias realidades fundamentales: 1) No eres ni de cerca tan bueno ni tan importante como crees; 2) Tienes una actitud que debes reajustar; 3) La mayoría de lo que crees que sabes o la mayoría de lo que aprendiste en los libros o en las aulas está obsoleto o equivocado." -Tim Ferriss
"when I speak with anyone about anything, I try to hold their perspective with a 'light grip': the knowledge that they, and I, have very incomplete maps of reality." -Tim Ferriss
"¿Es bueno tu producto si la gente no está dispuesta a pagar más por él?»" -Tim Ferriss
"Puede ser un lugar, una persona, una vocación." -Tim Ferriss
"After it was sold, the president of one potential marketing partner, a large bookseller, e-mailed me historical bestseller statistics to make it clear—this wouldn’t be a mainstream success. So I did all I knew how to do. I wrote it with two of my closest friends in mind, speaking directly to them and their problems—problems I long had—and I focused on the unusual options" -Tim Ferriss
"Things are never as good or as bad as they seem." -Tim Ferriss
"Most people aren’t lucky enough to get fired and die a slow spiritual death over 30–40 years of tolerating the mediocre." -Tim Ferriss
"Si sientes continuamente la contraproducente necesidad de tener volumen de trabajo y de hacer muchas cosas, escribe esto en un post-it:" -Tim Ferriss
"NR: To prevent work for work’s sake, and to do the minimum necessary for maximum effect ('minimum effective load')." -Tim Ferriss
"Back to Tony, 'cap the downside' also applies to thinking long-term about fees and middlemen: 'If three of my friends [and I] all put aside the same amount of money, and we all get a 7% return, but my buddy’s getting fees of 3%, my other buddy’s 2%, and I’m 1%, and all three of us put $1 million in or $100,000 . . . the person with 3% of fees ends up with 65% less money [in the long-term]. . . ." -Tim Ferriss
"More than 100K active users OR serial founder(s) with past exits OR more than 10K paying customers. Whenever possible, I want to pour gasoline on the fire, not start the fire." -Tim Ferriss
"Outside of science and law, all rules can be bent or broken, and it doesn’t require being unethical." -Tim Ferriss
"But the truth is, you can’t really earn trust over time with people without being somewhat vulnerable [first]." -Tim Ferriss
"What are the biggest tech trends that you see defining the future? 'I don’t like talking in terms of tech ‘trends’ because I think, once you have a trend, you have many people doing it. And once you have many people doing something, you have lots of competition and little differentiation. You, generally, never want to be part of a popular trend. You do not want to be the fourth online pet food company in the late 1990s. You do not want to be the twelfth thin-panel solar company in the last decade. And you don’t want to be the nth company of any particular trend. So I think trends are often things to avoid. What I prefer over trends is a sense of mission. That you are working on a unique problem that people are not solving elsewhere." -Tim Ferriss
"buscar un mercado antes de idear un producto es más inteligente que lo contrario." -Tim Ferriss
"Scott me ayudó a reorientar mi atención hacia los sistemas, por usar su propio lenguaje, en lugar de concentrarme en las metas." -Tim Ferriss
"The disease of our times is that we live on the surface." -Tim Ferriss
"but you can start with a cold water 'finish' to showers. Simply make the last 30 to 60 seconds of your shower pure cold." -Tim Ferriss
"Art Is Socialism, but Life Is Capitalism 'My wife made the observation that everyone’s equal on stage, but off stage, they’re completely unequal.' Mike wrote down, 'Art is socialism but life is capitalism,' and that became a guiding principle for his film Don’t Think Twice." -Tim Ferriss
"It is much like goal-setting but differs in several fundamental respects: 1. The goals shift from ambiguous wants to defined steps. 2. The goals have to be unrealistic to be effective. 3. It focuses on activities that will fill the vacuum created when work is removed. Living like a millionaire requires doing interesting things and not just owning enviable things." -Tim Ferriss
"literally" -Tim Ferriss
"complaining diet,’ where I said, ‘Not only am I not going to say anything negative about the situation I’m in, but I’m not going to let myself think anything negative about it.’ . . . It took a long time and I wasn’t perfect at it, but . . . not only did replacing those thoughts helped me start moving my life in a better direction, where I wasn’t obsessing about what was wrong, . . . it also made me not feel physical pain as much, which is very liberating and kind of necessary if you want to do anything." -Tim Ferriss
"Fifty Shades of Chicken That’s the title of Shaun’s 'most-gifted' book. Totally serious. I assumed it would be a complete joke, but it has nearly 700 reviews on Amazon and a 4.8-star average." -Tim Ferriss
"often in people’s 30s or 40s, a stage where you begin crafting your own language for what you do as an increasingly 'strong poet'—you make your craft your own and view your life as more self-expression than simply playing out other people’s roles for you." -Tim Ferriss
"Most-gifted or recommended books? Man’s Search for Meaning by Viktor Frankl The Fourth Turning by William Strauss (Also, Generations by William Strauss, which was gifted to Tony by Bill Clinton) Mindset by Carol Dweck (for parenting) As a Man Thinketh by" -Tim Ferriss
"Don’t provoke deliberation before you can take action." -Tim Ferriss
"Remember—boredom is the enemy, not some abstract 'failure." -Tim Ferriss
"Why Are You Investing, Anyway? For me, the goal of 'investing' has always been simple: to allocate resources (e.g., money, time, energy) to improve quality of life." -Tim Ferriss
"If you don’t make mistakes, you’re not working on hard enough problems. And that’s a big mistake.' –Frank Wilczek American theoretical physicist, Nobel Prize winner" -Tim Ferriss
"«El genio es solamente la facultad superior de ver.» JOHN RUSKIN, afamado artista y crítico social" -Tim Ferriss
"We waste our time with short-term thinking and busywork. Warren Buffett spends a year deciding and a day acting. That act lasts decades." -Tim Ferriss
"Life is always happening for us, not to us. It’s our job to find out where the benefit is. If we do, life is magnificent." -Tim Ferriss
"While people often say there’s not enough time, remember that you’ll always have less attention than time. Full attention is where you do your best work, and everyone’s going to be looking to rip it from you. Protect and preserve it." -Tim Ferriss
"My two cents: Excellence is the next five minutes or nothing at all. It’s the quality of your next five-minute conversation. It’s the quality of, yes, your next email. Forget the long term. Make the next five minutes rock!" -Tim Ferriss
"Do not work harder when the solution is working smarter. I" -Tim Ferriss
"Strong Views, Loosely Held" -Tim Ferriss
"Treadmills kill your spirit." -Tim Ferriss
"If something offends you, look inward. . . . That’s a sign that there’s something there." -Tim Ferriss
"Giving What We Can, que insta a la gente a comprometerse a dar al menos el 10 por ciento de sus ingresos" -Tim Ferriss
"Bloomberg’s Top 25 Angel Investors and one of Time’s Top 25 Most Influential People on the Web. He has a popular monthly newsletter called The Journal." -Tim Ferriss
"Let go of what’s not working and really assess what is working and ‘what can I be excited about?" -Tim Ferriss
"The rule is: The basics are the basics, and you can’t beat the basics." -Tim Ferriss
"Place an ice pack on the back of the neck or upper trapezius area for 20–30 minutes, preferably in the evening, when insulin sensitivity is lowest. I place a towel on the couch while writing or watching a movie and simply lean back against the ice pack. 2. Consume, as Ray did, at least 500 milliliters of ice water on an empty stomach immediately upon waking. In at least two studies, this water consumption has been shown to increase resting metabolic rate 24–30%, peaking at 40–60 minutes post-consumption, though one study demonstrated a lower effect of 4.5%. Eat breakfast 20–30 minutes later à la the Slow-Carb Diet detailed in earlier chapters. 3. Take 5–10-minute cold showers before breakfast and/or before bed. Use hot water for 1–2 minutes over the entire body, then step out of water range and apply" -Tim Ferriss
"From an actionable information standpoint, I consume a maximum of one-third of one industry magazine (Response magazine) and one business magazine (Inc.) per month, for a grand total of approximately four hours. That’s it for results-oriented reading. I read an hour of fiction prior to bed for relaxation." -Tim Ferriss
"It’s easy to convince yourself that things need to be hard, that if you’re not redlining, you’re not trying hard enough. This leads us to look for paths of most resistance, often creating unnecessary hardship in the process." -Tim Ferriss
"The options are limitless, but each path begins with the same first step: replacing assumptions." -Tim Ferriss
"Alabaman senator and stuff like that—and watch the pitch happen. It was awesome." -Tim Ferriss
"To be answered in the morning: I am grateful for . . . 1. __________ 2. __________ 3. __________ What would make today great? 1. __________ 2. __________ 3. __________ Daily affirmations. I am . . . 1. __________ 2. __________ 3. __________ To be filled in at night: 3 amazing things that happened today . . . 1. __________ 2. __________ 3. __________ (This is similar to Peter Diamandis’s 'three wins' practice; see page 373.) How could I have made today better? 1. __________ 2. __________ 3. __________" -Tim Ferriss
"Cómo ganar amigos e influir sobre las personas en la era digital (Elipse, 2016), de Dale Carnegie." -Tim Ferriss
"I don’t like work,' says Marlow in Joseph Conrad’s Heart of Darkness, 'but I like what is in the work—the chance to find yourself.' Marlow" -Tim Ferriss
"Listening is about being present, not just being quiet." -Tim Ferriss
"In reality, most people aren’t 'bad' at languages. They’re bad, like me, at memorizing boring, zero-gratification tables that make DMV forms look sexy." -Tim Ferriss
"It doesn’t matter how many people don’t get it. What matters is how many people do." -Tim Ferriss
"How has a failure, or apparent failure, set you up for later success? Do you have a 'favorite failure' of yours? During my second tour in Iraq, I was commander of SEAL Team Three, Task Unit Bruiser. We were deployed to the war-torn city of Ramadi, the epicenter of the insurgency at the time. Only a few weeks into the deployment, we conducted a large operation in conjunction with U.S. Army soldiers, U.S. Marines, and friendly Iraqi Army soldiers. There were multiple elements on the battlefield, all engaged in heavy enemy contact. In the fog of war, mistakes were made. Bad luck emerged. Things went wrong. There ended up being a vicious firefight between one of my SEAL elements and a friendly Iraqi unit. An Iraqi soldier was killed and several others were wounded, including one of my SEALs. It was a nightmare. While there was plenty of blame to go around, and plenty of people who had made mistakes, I realized there was only one person to blame: me. I was the commander. I was the senior man on the battlefield, and I was responsible for everything that happened. Everything. As a leader, there is no one else to blame. Don’t make excuses. If I don’t take ownership of problems, I can’t solve them. That’s what a leader has to do: take ownership of the problems, the mistakes, and the shortfalls, and take ownership of creating and implementing solutions to get those problems solved. Take ownership." -Tim Ferriss
"sino que hará con tranquilidad su tarea rodeado por un gran halo de bienestar y esparcimiento. Tendrá mucho margen para la relajación en su jornada. Sólo se preocupará de asegurarse las semillas del tiempo sin exagerar el valor de la cáscara'. Qué bella metáfora para no confundir la cáscara (los accesorios externos de la productividad, como el ajetreo o un calendario lleno o un autocontestador inteligente) con el grano, el núcleo y la esencia del verdadero trabajo producido. Y después continúa diciendo: 'Quien trabaja mucho, no trabaja duro'. Me encanta esto». «La nuestra es una cultura en la que quemamos el talento para sobrevivir durmiendo muy poco, como si eso fuera una especie de medalla de honor que simboliza ética laboral, o aguante, o alguna otra virtud, aunque en realidad responde a una completa y profunda falta de prioridades y de respeto por uno mismo.» Para recordarnos esta «profunda carencia», Maria, yo y al menos otros seis invitados de este libro leemos y recomendamos Sobre la brevedad de la vida, de Séneca. Lema de cabecera de Maria en Facebook, y una buena regla para la vida" -Tim Ferriss
"escribir el 20 por ciento de las actividades y la gente que me causan el 80 por ciento o más de las emociones negativas." -Tim Ferriss
"The app Headspace is a fun way to start. Try and do it every day. But I suggest not doing it while you are walking . . . for now." -Tim Ferriss
"Map and Territory and How to Actually Change Your Mind by Eliezer Yudkowsky." -Tim Ferriss
"Memories, Dreams, Reflections by Carl Jung." -Tim Ferriss
"HOPE IS NOT A STRATEGY. LUCK IS NOT A FACTOR. FEAR IS NOT AN OPTION. I" -Tim Ferriss
"Rule #1: Avoid 'white' carbohydrates (or anything that can be white). Rule #2: Eat the same few meals over and over again. Rule #3: Don’t drink calories. Rule #4: Don’t eat fruit. Rule #5: Take one day off per week and go nuts." -Tim Ferriss
"If you want to be wealthy—as measured in money, time, relationships, ease of sleep, or otherwise—'spiritual windshield wipers' will help you get there with fewer accidents and less headache." -Tim Ferriss
"Suffering is a moment of clarity, when you can no longer deny the truth of a situation and are forced into uncomfortable change. I’m lucky that I didn’t get everything I wanted in my life, or I’d be happy with my first good job, my college sweetheart, my college town. Being poor when young led to making money when old. Losing faith in my bosses and elders made me independent and an adult. Almost getting into the wrong marriage helped me recognize and enter the right one. Falling sick made me focus on my health. It goes on and on. Inside suffering is the seed of change. If" -Tim Ferriss
"Retirement as a goal or final redemption is flawed for at least three solid reasons: a. It is predicated on the assumption that you dislike what you are doing during the most physically capable years of your life. This is a nonstarter—nothing can justify that sacrifice. b. Most people will never be able to retire and maintain even a hotdogs-for-dinner standard of living. Even one million is chump change in a world where traditional retirement could span 30 years and inflation lowers your purchasing power 2–4% per year. The math doesn’t work.3 The golden years become lower-middle-class life revisited. That’s a bittersweet ending. c. If the math does work, it means that you are one ambitious, hardworking machine. If that’s the case, guess what? One week into retirement, you’ll be so damn bored that you’ll want to stick bicycle spokes in your eyes. You’ll probably opt to look for a new job or start another company. Kinda defeats the purpose of waiting, doesn’t it?" -Tim Ferriss
"I find that being in a good mood for creative work" -Tim Ferriss
"Si no llegas el primero a la mente de los compradores, no pierdas la esperanza. Busca una nueva categoría en la que puedas ser el primero. No es tan difícil como puede parecer." -Tim Ferriss
"Failure is not necessarily durable. Remember that the things that they fire you for when you are young are the same things that they give lifetime achievement awards for when you’re old." -Tim Ferriss
"on a seagull poo–like texture when mixed into cold water. Amelia saved my palate and joints by introducing me to the Great Lakes hydrolyzed version (green label), which blends easily and smoothly. Add a tablespoon of beet root powder like BeetElite to stave off any cow-hoof flavor, and it’s a whole new game. Amelia uses BeetElite pre-race and pre-training for its endurance benefits, but I’m much harder-core: I use it to make tart, low-carb gummy bears when fat Tim has carb cravings. RumbleRoller: Think foam roller meets monster-truck tire. Foam rollers have historically done very little for me, but this torture device had an immediate positive impact on my recovery. (It also helps you sleep if used before bed.) Warning: Start slow. I tried to copy Amelia and did 20-plus minutes my first session. The next day, I felt like I’d been put in a sleeping bag and swung against a tree for a few hours. Rolling your foot on top of a golf ball on the floor to increase 'hamstring' flexibility. This is infinitely more helpful than a lacrosse ball. Put a towel on the floor underneath the golf ball, lest you shoot your dog’s eye out. Concept2 SkiErg for training when your lower body is injured. After knee surgery, Amelia used this low-impact machine to maintain cardiovascular endurance and prepare for the 2014 World’s Toughest Mudder, which she won 8 weeks post-op. Kelly Starrett (page 122) is also a big fan of this device. Dry needling: I’d never heard of this before meeting Amelia. '[In acupuncture] the goal is not to feel the needle. In dry-needling, you are sticking the needle in the muscle belly and trying to get it to twitch, and the twitch is the release.' It’s used for super-tight, over-contracted muscles, and the needles are not left in. Unless you’re a masochist, don’t have this done on your calves. Sauna for endurance: Amelia has found using a sauna improves her endurance, a concept that has since been confirmed by several other athletes, including cyclist David Zabriskie, seven-time U.S. National Time Trial Championship winner. He considers sauna training a more practical replacement for high-altitude simulation tents. In the 2005 Tour de France, Dave won the Stage 1 time trial, making him the first American to win stages in all three Grand Tours. Zabriskie beat Lance Armstrong by seconds, clocking an average speed of 54.676 kilometers per hour (!). I now use a sauna at least four times per week. To figure out the best protocols, I asked" -Tim Ferriss
"Usa BitLocker con Windows o FileVault con OS X." -Tim Ferriss
"Career specialists can’t externalize what they’ve internalized. Second nature is hard to teach." -Tim Ferriss
"Valve: Handbook for New Employees' from Gabe’s company. As Chris put it: 'It’s the only HR document you will ever knowingly want to read." -Tim Ferriss
"Because most of us say yes to too much stuff, and then, we let these little, mediocre things fill our lives…. The problem is, when that occasional, ‘Oh my God, hell yeah!’ thing comes along, you don’t have enough time to give it the attention that you should, because you’ve said yes to too much other little, half-ass stuff, right?" -Tim Ferriss
"KetoPet Sanctuary (KPS): El KPS, creado por la Fundación Epigenix, hace lo posible por salvar a perros con cáncer terminal incurable. Su objetivo no consiste en ofrecer tratamientos de residencia a perros terminales. Por supuesto, cuidan y aman a los animales, pero en lugar de abandonarlos a su suerte, KPS les ofrece innovadores tratamientos contra el cáncer, basados en el metabolismo, equivalentes a los diseñados para humanos." -Tim Ferriss
"Es tan común hoy en día lamentar o criticar el trabajo de los demás en los medios sociales, o unirse a muchos más en contra de alguien por una supuesta ofensa. Yo no lo haré. Mi trabajo no consiste en criticar al mundo, y prefiero no prescindir de posibles aliados futuros.»" -Tim Ferriss
"To do what you desire to do, you have all you need." -Tim Ferriss
"Pricing low is shortsighted, because someone else is always willing to sacrifice more profit margin and drive you both bankrupt." -Tim Ferriss
"What you just explained is exactly what I was going to suggest. Think about how old you are right now and think about being a 10-year-older version of yourself. Then think, ‘What would I probably tell myself as an older version of myself?’ That is the wisdom that I think you found in that exercise. . . . [If you do this exercise and then start living the answers,] I think you’re going to grow exponentially faster than you would have otherwise." -Tim Ferriss
"What advice would you give to a smart, driven college student about to enter the 'real world'? What advice should they ignore? Advice I’d give: Make sure you have something every day you’re looking forward to." -Tim Ferriss
"Conditions are never perfect. 'Someday' is a disease that will take your dreams to the grave with you. Pro and con lists are just as bad. If it’s important to you and you want to do it 'eventually,' just do it and correct course along the way." -Tim Ferriss
"P2 (WordPress theme) for replacing email—p2theme.com" -Tim Ferriss
"Would you tell me, please, which way I ought to go from here?' 'That depends a good deal on where you want to get to,' said the Cat. 'I don’t much care where …' said Alice. 'Then it doesn’t matter which way you go,' said the Cat. —LEWIS CARROLL, Alice in Wonderland The" -Tim Ferriss
"If you want to be this brutally honest in the U.S., I suggest first reading my friend A.J. Jacobs’s Esquire piece titled 'I Think You’re Fat." -Tim Ferriss
"When I let go of what I am, I become what I might be.' –Lao Tzu" -Tim Ferriss
"Work is when you confront the problems you might otherwise be tempted to run away from. Work is how you settle your financial and emotional debts—so that your travels are not an escape from your real life, but a discovery of your real life." -Tim Ferriss
"Una inversión que produce una rentabilidad financiera inmensa pero que me hace perder los nervios por completo, o me causa insomnio y berrinches durante un periodo largo de tiempo, NO es una buena inversión." -Tim Ferriss
"«En el entorno equivocado, la creatividad se resiente." -Tim Ferriss
"Merchant: '. . . If you are without possessions, how can you give?' Siddhartha: 'Everyone gives what he has. The soldier gives strength, the merchant goods, the teacher instruction, the farmer rice, the fisherman fish.' Merchant: 'Very well, and what can you give? What have you learned that you can give?' Siddhartha: 'I can think, I can wait, I can fast.' Merchant: 'Is that all?' Siddhartha: 'I think that is all." -Tim Ferriss
"Everything popular is wrong." -Tim Ferriss
"«No hay diferencia entre un pesimista que dice: 'Oh, es inútil, así que no te molestes en hacer nada' y un optimista que dice: 'No te molestes en hacer nada, las cosas van a salir bien'. De cualquiera de las dos formas, no va a pasar nada.» YVON CHOUINARD,7 fundador de la Patagonia" -Tim Ferriss
"Soy anciano y he conocido gran cantidad de problemas, pero la mayoría de ellos no ha llegado a suceder jamás." -Tim Ferriss
"The next morning, I began a dissection of my business and personal life through the lenses of two questions: 1. Which 20% of sources are causing 80% of my problems and unhappiness? 2. Which 20% of sources are resulting in 80% of my desired outcomes and happiness?" -Tim Ferriss
"Riesgos y beneficios asimétricos:" -Tim Ferriss
"2. El 10 por ciento de la gente encontrará una manera de tomárselo todo como algo personal. Cuenta con ello y trátalo desde una perspectiva matemática." -Tim Ferriss
"There should never be more than two mission-critical items to complete each day." -Tim Ferriss
"What information consumes is rather obvious: it consumes the attention of its recipients. Hence, a wealth of information creates a poverty of attention and a need to allocate that attention efficiently among the overabundance" -Tim Ferriss
"Pete started writing about his philosophy on the Mr. Money Mustache blog, which has grown to reach about 23 million people (and 300 million page views) since its founding. It has become a worldwide cult phenomenon with a self-organizing" -Tim Ferriss
"This is a hurdle that is hard for most. If I can do it better than an assistant, why should I pay them at all? Because the goal is to free your time to focus on bigger and better things. This chapter is a low-cost exercise to get you past this lifestyle limiter. It is absolutely necessary that you realize that you can always do something more cheaply yourself. This doesn’t mean you want to spend your time doing it." -Tim Ferriss
"In the last five years, what have you become better at saying no to? My biggest shift came after listening to a successful CEO talk about his philosophy for hiring people. When his company grew and he ran out of time to interview people himself, he had his employees rate new candidates on a 1–10 scale. The only stipulation was they couldn’t choose 7. It immediately dawned on me how many invitations I was receiving that I would rate as a 7—speeches, weddings, coffees, even dates. If I thought something was a 7, there was a good chance I felt obligated to do it. But if I have to decide between a 6 or an 8, it’s a lot easier to quickly determine whether or not I should even consider it." -Tim Ferriss
"The 'aura of exclusivity' is really code for 'bad atmosphere." -Tim Ferriss
"How can I possibly explain that what I do with my time and what I do for money are completely different things?" -Tim Ferriss
"Whenever you find yourself on the side of the majority, it is time to pause and reflect.—MARK TWAIN" -Tim Ferriss
"«No somos un objeto, somos un proceso» «Queremos juzgar las cosas como buenas o malas… De modo que tenemos la idea de que una inflamación es mala," -Tim Ferriss
"you’re forced to examine limiting beliefs—say, your top two or three handicapping beliefs—across each tense. Tony guides you through each in depth, and I recall answering and visualizing variations of: What has each belief cost you in the past, and what has it cost people you’ve loved in the past? What have you lost because of this belief? See it, hear it, feel it. What is each costing you and people you care about in the present? See it, hear it, feel it. What will each cost you and people you care about 1, 3, 5, and 10 years from now? See it, hear it, feel it." -Tim Ferriss
"Two of his favorite, easy-to-find teas are both from Red Blossom Tea Company: Tung Ting dark roast oolong, and, for something milder, Silver Needle white tea." -Tim Ferriss
"No quieres ser la decimosegunda empresa de paneles solares de la última década. Y no quieres ser la enésima empresa de ninguna tendencia en particular. Así" -Tim Ferriss
"instead they give me a new approach to thinking about the question so that I can solve it better on my own. Most 'bad' recommendations" -Tim Ferriss
"Basic Tenets for Strength 'Strength is the mother quality of all physical qualities.' 'Strength is a skill, and, as such, it must be practiced.' 'Lift heavy, not hard.' 'Anything more than 5 reps is bodybuilding. . . . If you want to be strong, you want to keep your reps at 5 and under." -Tim Ferriss
"But you are the average of the five people you associate with most," -Tim Ferriss
"If you can't define or act upon it, forget it." -Tim Ferriss
"Stumbling on Happiness by Daniel Gilbert (3) Superintelligence by Nick Bostrom (3) Surely You’re Joking, Mr. Feynman! by Richard P. Feynman (3) The 4-Hour Body by Tim Ferriss (3) The Bible (3) The Hard Thing About Hard Things by Ben Horowitz (3) The War of Art by Steven Pressfield (3) Watchmen by Alan Moore (3) Zero to One by Peter Thiel with Blake Masters (3)" -Tim Ferriss
"Pues no, la culpa es tuya en realidad por no haberle enseñado bien, por no haber influido en él," -Tim Ferriss
"The following rules are the fundamental differentiators to keep in mind throughout this book. 1. Retirement Is Worst-Case-Scenario Insurance. Retirement planning is like life insurance. It should be viewed as nothing more than a hedge against the absolute worst-case scenario: in this case, becoming physically incapable of working and needing a reservoir of capital to survive. Retirement as a goal or final redemption is flawed for at least three solid reasons: a. It is predicated on the assumption that you dislike what you are doing during the most physically capable years of your life. This is a nonstarter—nothing can justify that sacrifice. b. Most people will never be able to retire and maintain even a hotdogs-for-dinner standard of living. Even one million is chump change in a world where traditional retirement could span 30 years and inflation lowers your purchasing power 2–4% per year. The math doesn’t work.3 The golden years become lower-middle-class life revisited. That’s a bittersweet ending. c. If the math does work, it means that you are one ambitious, hardworking machine. If that’s the case, guess what? One week into retirement, you’ll be so damn bored that you’ll want to stick bicycle spokes in your eyes. You’ll probably opt to look for a new job or start another company. Kinda defeats the purpose of waiting, doesn’t it? I’m not saying don’t plan for the worst case—I have maxed out 401(k)s and IRAs I use primarily for tax purposes—but don’t mistake retirement for the goal." -Tim Ferriss
"Parenting Advice 'What could possibly be more important than your kid? Please don’t play the busy card. If you spend 2 hours a day without an electronic device, looking your kid in the eye, talking to them and solving interesting problems, you will raise a different kid than someone who doesn’t do that. That’s one of the reasons why I cook dinner every night. Because what a wonderful, semi-distracted environment in which the kid can tell you the truth. For you to have low-stakes but superimportant conversations with someone who’s important to you." -Tim Ferriss
"Do your own thinking independently. Be the chess player, not the chess piece. —RALPH CHARELL" -Tim Ferriss
"Calm.com for meditation" -Tim Ferriss
"Once you realize that you can turn off the noise without the world ending, you're liberated in a way that few people ever know" -Tim Ferriss
"having a reputation for being assertive will help you receive preferential treatment without having to beg or fight for it every time." -Tim Ferriss
"after Ben Franklin’s famous quote: 'Early to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy," -Tim Ferriss
"The man who grasps principles can successfully select his own methods. The man who tries methods, ignoring principles, is sure to have trouble. —RALPH WALDO EMERSON" -Tim Ferriss
"Leadership on the Line by Ronald A. Heifetz and Marty Linsky," -Tim Ferriss
"Y el 99,9 por ciento de las veces no era porque no supieran disparar un arma," -Tim Ferriss
"my soul doesn’t speak in thoughts at all—it speaks in feelings, images, and clues." -Tim Ferriss
"So they believe the trend makes no sense. But what makes no sense is their model of the world. That’s what doesn’t make sense. The world always makes sense." -Tim Ferriss
"Psych by Dr. Judd Biasiotto." -Tim Ferriss
"he explains the secret of his success this way: 'There were three reasons why we survived: We had no money, we had no technology, and we had no plan." -Tim Ferriss
"P2 (tema de WordPress) para reemplazar el correo electrónico: p2theme.com." -Tim Ferriss
"Rolling your foot on top of a golf ball on the floor to increase 'hamstring' flexibility" -Tim Ferriss
"Personally, I now aim for one month of overseas relocation or high-intensity learning (tango, fighting, whatever) for every two months of work projects." -Tim Ferriss
"The top 1% often succeed despite how they train, not because of it. Superior genetics, or a luxurious full-time schedule, make up for a lot." -Tim Ferriss
"Advertising" -Tim Ferriss
"Rework and Remote: Office Not Required." -Tim Ferriss
"Leap First:" -Tim Ferriss
"el éxito de una persona en la vida suele poder medirse por la cantidad de conversaciones incómodas" -Tim Ferriss
"Do not work harder when the solution is working smarter." -Tim Ferriss
"Amazon, Netflix, etc., repararon en que, en total, las ventas de todos los productos minoritarios igualaban, y en algunos casos excedían, las ventas de los contados productos más vendidos." -Tim Ferriss
"Si esto es un hombre y La tregua (Club Círculo de Lectores, 2004), de Primo Levi," -Tim Ferriss
"You Are a Rounding Error' '[I had] an executive at Yahoo! who brought me and Steve in [for a potential acquisition discussion]—this was early in Reddit—and told us we were a rounding error because our traffic was so small. . . . I put, ‘You are a rounding error,’ on our wall in the Reddit office after that meeting as a wall of negative reinforcement for me. That ended up being kind of valuable for me and helpful, and I still am grateful to this day that he was such a dick, because it was so motivating. But I don’t want to be that guy.' (See Amanda Palmer’s quote, 'Take the pain and wear it like a shirt' on page 521.)" -Tim Ferriss
"The letters I-M are all that liesbetween ‘Possible’ and ‘Impossible’Which means ‘I’m’ the only thing between‘Possible’ and ‘Impossible’So every day I choose to do theI’mpossible." -Tim Ferriss
"Oh, that wasn’t a failure. That was a key moment of my development that I needed to take, and I can trust my instinct. I really can." -Tim Ferriss
"Commit, within financial reason, to action instead of theory. Learn to confront the challenges of the real world, rather than resort to the protective womb of academia. You can control most of the risks, and you can’t imagine the rewards." -Tim Ferriss
"That's precisely the question everyone should be asking, why the hell not? Why not you? Why not now?" -Tim Ferriss
"pasamos a otro instante temporal en lugar de cambiar, porque el cambio" -Tim Ferriss
"If you don’t believe in God, you should believe in the technology that’s going to make us immortal." -Tim Ferriss
"The Happiest Baby on the Block by Harvey Karp. If you want to be a hands-on parent and also have some version of a career, this book is gold. I usually send it with another book called The Sleepeasy Solution, written by Jennifer Waldburger" -Tim Ferriss
"Thinking of what makes me happy doesn’t give me the same clarity as thinking about what gives me bliss. For me, it’s the freedom I feel on top of a mountain or the breeze I feel laying on a catamaran net halfway around the world. Bliss is the highest peak of what brings you joy. If happiness is just above the status quo, bliss is what makes you feel most alive. Expect it will take courage to follow your bliss, and expect it will suck at times. Expect you’re going to have to take risks for it. Expect others won’t necessarily understand. And also expect that what gives you bliss today may not be what does tomorrow. Just follow it all over again." -Tim Ferriss
"Science isn’t about being right preemptively or knowing the answer. Science is motivated by the human drive to struggle to discover." -Tim Ferriss
"Workout A All exercises, except for kettlebell swings, are performed for 10 repetitions using a 13-Repetition Max2 (RM) weight. 1. Heavy dumbbell front squat to press (ass to heels)—squeeze glutes at bottom for one second before rising 2. One-arm, one-leg DB row 3. Walking lunges with sprinter knee raise 4. Wide-grip push-ups3 5. Two-arm kettlebell swings × 20–25 Repeat sequence 2–4 times. Workout" -Tim Ferriss
"Para mí el éxito consiste en crearte un guion propio." -Tim Ferriss
"PARA QUE QUEDE CLARO: Dedica de dos a tres HORAS a concentrarte en UNA de esas tareas hoy. Esto es UN BLOQUE DE TIEMPO. Sacar diez minutos de aquí y de allá hasta juntar ciento veinte minutos no funciona. Nada de llamadas telefónicas o redes sociales." -Tim Ferriss
"Arnold was able to use his biggest 'flaws' as his biggest assets, in part because he could bide his time and didn’t have to rush to make rent." -Tim Ferriss
"recuerda que has de morir, es una gran manera de recordarte que hay que vivir." -Tim Ferriss
"Don’t worry about what you’re going to do with the rest of your life. Just find a profitable and interesting use for the next three to five years." -Tim Ferriss
"Make It Count became a video about chasing what matters to you. This was the entire message and point of the campaign to begin with. Make It Count ended up being Nike’s most watched video on the Internet for several years." -Tim Ferriss
"#1—What if I did the opposite for 48 hours?" -Tim Ferriss
"Tactics are great, but tactics become commoditized.' TF: If you understand principles, you can create tactics. If you are dependent on perishable tactics, you are always at a disadvantage. This is why Ramit studies behavioral psychology and the elements of persuasion that appear hardwired." -Tim Ferriss
"La cuestión, por tanto, es: ¿Cómo consigo alcanzar el estilo de vida de libertad absoluta que tienen los millonarios sin tener un millón de dólares de partida?" -Tim Ferriss
"Can I trade a short-term, incremental gain for a potential longer-term, game-changing upside?" -Tim Ferriss
"Thoreau touched on this same notion in Walden. 'Which would have advanced the most at the end of a month,' he posited, 'the boy who had made his own jackknife from the ore which he had dug and smelted, reading as much as would be necessary for this—or the boy who had . . . received a Rodgers’ penknife from his father? Which would be most likely to cut his fingers?' At a certain level, the idea that freedom is tied to labor might seem a bit depressing. It shouldn’t be. For all the amazing experiences that await you in distant lands, the 'meaningful' part of travel always starts at home, with a personal investment in the wonders to come." -Tim Ferriss
"What Makes These People Different?" -Tim Ferriss
"The existential vacuum manifests itself mainly in a state of boredom." -Tim Ferriss
"THE VALUE OF 5–10-MINUTE BREAKS The serial position effect refers to improved recall observed at the beginnings and ends of lists. Separately, these are called the primacy effect and recency effect, respectively. Memorizing a hypothetical list of 20 words, your recall might look something like this: This mid-list dip can be observed in study sessions as well, so a 90-minute session might resemble the below graph: We can dramatically improve recall by splitting that single session into two sessions of 45 minutes with a 10-minute break in between." -Tim Ferriss
"En esto consiste la estrategia del lienzo, en ayudarte ayudando a los demás. En realizar un esfuerzo coordinado para cambiar tu satisfacción a corto plazo por una recompensa a largo plazo." -Tim Ferriss
"Whenever you find yourself on the side of the majority, it is time to pause and reflect. —MARK TWAIN" -Tim Ferriss
"Seeking Wisdom: From Darwin to Munger" -Tim Ferriss
"Happiness, or at least peace, is the sense that nothing is missing in this moment." -Tim Ferriss
"Economists typically attribute excessive bidding to risk aversion, or the joy of winning. What we found is that the actual cause of overbidding is a fear of losing, a completely new theory from past investigations." -Tim Ferriss
"Derek Parfit, quien lleva toda su vida en la institución All Souls College" -Tim Ferriss
"Can they redistribute retirement throughout life to make it more affordable?" -Tim Ferriss
"I can wait' → Being able to plan long-term, play the long game, and not misallocate your resources. 'I can fast' → Being able to withstand difficulties and disaster. Training yourself to be uncommonly resilient and have a high pain tolerance." -Tim Ferriss
"Be the change you want to see in the world." -Tim Ferriss
"Sometimes, the clues that you put outwardly are too subtle to be heard, or someone is just talking louder than you." -Tim Ferriss
"We enjoy the comfort of opinion without the discomfort of thought.'—John F. Kennedy" -Tim Ferriss
"«Para mí, si te sientes estancado, creo que deberías quedarte con La guerra del arte y The Art of Possibility." -Tim Ferriss
"Amplify your strengths rather than fix your weaknesses. 'If you’re not the" -Tim Ferriss
"Vagabonding starts now. Even if the practical reality of travel is still months or years away, vagabonding begins the moment you stop making excuses, start saving money, and begin to look at maps with the narcotic tingle of possibility. From here, the reality of vagabonding comes into sharper focus as you adjust your worldview and begin to embrace the exhilarating uncertainty that true travel promises." -Tim Ferriss
"Follow Your Passion' Is Terrible Advice 'I think it misconstrues the nature of finding a satisfying career and satisfying job, where the biggest predictor of job satisfaction is mentally engaging work. It’s the nature of the job itself. It’s not got that much to do with you. . . . It’s whether the job provides a lot of variety, gives you good feedback, allows you to exercise autonomy, contributes to the wider world—Is it actually meaningful? Is it making the world better?—and also, whether it allows you to exercise a skill that you’ve developed.' * Most gifted books for life improvement and general effectiveness Mindfulness by Mark Williams and Danny Penman. This book is a friendly and accessible introduction to mindfulness meditation, and includes an 8-week guided meditation course. Will completed this course, and it had a significant impact on his life. The Power of Persuasion by Robert Levine. The ability to be convincing, sell ideas, and persuade other people is a meta-skill that transfers to many areas of your life. This book didn’t become that popular, but it’s the best book on persuasion that Will has found. It’s much more in-depth than other options in the genre. * Advice to your 20-year-old self? 'One is emphasizing that you have 80,000 working hours in the course of your life. It’s incredibly important to work out how best to spend them, and what you’re doing at the moment—20-year-old Will—is just kind of drifting and thinking. [You’re] not spending very much time thinking about this kind of macro optimization. You might be thinking about ‘How can I do my coursework as well as possible?’ and micro optimization, but not really thinking about ‘What are actually my ultimate goals in life, and how can I optimize toward them?’ 'An analogy I use is, if you’re going out for dinner, it’s going to take you a couple of hours. You spend 5 minutes working out where to go for dinner. It seems reasonable to spend 5% of your time on how to spend the remaining 95%. If you did that with your career, that would be 4,000 hours, or 2 working years. And actually, I think that’s a pretty legitimate thing to do—spending that length of time trying to work out how should you be spending the rest of your life." -Tim Ferriss
"Naval Ravikant (page 546) regularly credits Scott’s short blog post 'The Day You Became a Better Writer' for improving his writing." -Tim Ferriss
"Creativity operates differently. You work hard because you’re inspired to, not because you have to. Work becomes fun, and you have energy for days because this life is not a 'young man’s game.' It is an 'inspired person’s game.' The keys belong to whoever is inspired, and no specific age, sex, gender, or cultural background has a monopoly on inspiration." -Tim Ferriss
"* Do you have any quotes that you live your life by or think of often? 'We are simultaneously gods and worms.'—Abraham Maslow * Advice to your 25-or 30-year-old self? 'I would encourage my younger self to just not be afraid, right? To realize that a lot of things that were—I don’t want to say crippling anxieties, but—definitely ever-pervasive fears in my life growing up were unnecessary. A lot of time was wasted, a lot of energy was wasted, being worried.' TF: Across all guests, the most common answer to this question is some variation of 'It’s all going to be alright." -Tim Ferriss
"Show me an incumbent bigco failing to adapt to change, I’ll show you top execs paid huge cash compensation for quarterly and annual goals.' 'Every billionaire suffers from the same problem. Nobody around them ever says, ‘Hey, that stupid idea you just had is really stupid.’' '‘Far more money has been lost by investors trying to anticipate corrections, than has been lost in corrections themselves.’—Peter Lynch" -Tim Ferriss
"Naucz się pytać: „Jeśli jest to jedyna rzecz, jaką mogę dziś wykonać, to czy będę zadowolony z dzisiejszego dnia?'." -Tim Ferriss
"In theory there is no difference between theory and practice. But, in practice, there is." -Tim Ferriss
"In other words, the minutiae fit around the big things, but the big things don’t fit around the minutiae." -Tim Ferriss
"Know.' He is an early-stage tech investor/advisor (Uber, Facebook," -Tim Ferriss
"How has being 'realistic' or 'responsible' kept you from the life you want? How has doing what you 'should' resulted in subpar experiences or regret for not having done something else?" -Tim Ferriss
"There is an old saying, 'Say little, do much.' What we really ought to do is update and apply a version of that to our early approach. Be lesser, do more. Imagine if for every person you met, you thought of some way to help them, something you could do for them? And you looked at it in a way that entirely benefited them and not you? The cumulative effect this would have over time would be profound: You’d learn a great deal by solving diverse problems. You’d develop a reputation for being indispensable. You’d have countless new relationships." -Tim Ferriss
"DiSSS The recipe for learning any skill is encapsulated in this acronym." -Tim Ferriss
"Learn more, know less." -Tim Ferriss
"Law 11: 'No' simply means begin again at one level higher." -Tim Ferriss
"En otras palabras, descubrir oportunidades para favorecer la creatividad de los demás, localizar salidas y personas para establecer una colaboración y eliminar distracciones que entorpezcan su progreso y concentración." -Tim Ferriss
"Reading (learning) is the ultimate meta-skill and can be traded for anything else." -Tim Ferriss
"The level of competition is thus fiercest for 'realistic' goals, paradoxically making them the most time and energy-consuming." -Tim Ferriss
"Cuando se trata del futuro, es mucho más importante tener imaginación que tener razón', de Alvin Toffler.»" -Tim Ferriss
"en tercer lugar edito para mis enemigos (¿qué es lo que mis detractores intentarán desmontar, desacreditar o ridiculizar?)." -Tim Ferriss
"I use [Palumbo’s] protein powder, by Species Nutrition. Every morning, I roll downstairs and: 2 scoops of whey protein [Isolyze], ice, a bunch of powdered Starbucks coffee, some macadamia nut oil, and I make a shake. That’s the start." -Tim Ferriss
"The Female Brain by Louann Brizendine." -Tim Ferriss
"To do original work: It’s not necessary to know something nobody else knows. It is necessary to believe something few other people believe." -Tim Ferriss
"I do not believe in work-life balance. I believe that if you view your work as a calling, it is a labor of love rather than laborious. When your work is a calling, you are not approaching the amount of hours you are working with a sense of dread or counting the minutes until the weekend. Your calling can become a life-affirming engagement that can provide its own balance and spiritual nourishment." -Tim Ferriss
"Miller, BJ: '‘Don’t believe everything you think." -Tim Ferriss
"There is a way to get the rewards for a life of hard work without waiting until the end." -Tim Ferriss
"First, whenever possible, connect with others. Second, with enthusiasm, strive always to create fun and delight for others. And third, lean into each moment and encounter expecting magic—or miracles." -Tim Ferriss
"Justin listens to Max Richter’s From Sleep, a composed album with a shortened version on Spotify. 'I put it on very quietly as I am starting my bedtime routine, so it usually ends 15 to 20 minutes after I’m asleep. Or I will use the Sonos sleep timer, if I’m at home." -Tim Ferriss
"Walden" -Tim Ferriss
"[‘1,000 True Fans’ by Kevin Kelly] was one of the seminal articles that inspired me to really build amazing material, rather than just recycling what else was out there. I knew that if I had 1,000 true fans, then not only would I be able to live doing the things I wanted, but I would be able to turn that into 2,000, 5,000, 10,000—and that is exactly what happened." -Tim Ferriss
"What’s the worst that could happen?" -Tim Ferriss
"Creo que la claridad por escrito revela claridad de pensamiento»." -Tim Ferriss
"Si prestas un servicio, en este apartado aprenderás a transformar tus habilidades en una mercancía que se pueda enviar para escapar de las limitaciones que impone el modelo de ganancia por horas." -Tim Ferriss
"El primer interrogante tiene un poderoso efecto bola de nieve, mientras que el segundo conduce a un resultado binario triunfo/fracaso sin premio de consolación" -Tim Ferriss
"Life is too short to be busy." -Tim Ferriss
"Arpy (suplantación de identidad por falsificación de tabla ARP)," -Tim Ferriss
"I think the best magnesium out there is magnesium threonate, if I were to pick one. But I prefer taking different chelates." -Tim Ferriss
"it’s never too late to replace the stories you tell yourself" -Tim Ferriss
"La culpa es de mi jefe'." -Tim Ferriss
"Die Menschen träumen also eigentlich nicht davon, eine Million Euro auf dem Konto zu haben. Sie träumen vielmehr von einem völlig freien Leben, das dieses Geld ihnen ermöglichen soll. Die Frage ist also: Wie kann man frei und unabhängig sein, ohne eine Million zu haben?" -Tim Ferriss
"When you’re the first in a new category, promote the category. In essence, you have no competition. DEC told its prospects why they ought to buy a minicomputer, not a DEC minicomputer. In" -Tim Ferriss
"Ésta es la razón por la que yo uso los servicios de Uber o un pseudónimo siempre que utilizo un vehículo con conductor en cualquier parte del mundo." -Tim Ferriss
"People who avoid criticism will fail." -Tim Ferriss
"You may even find that there’s no reason to ever stop doing it, even once you’ve graduated to heading your own projects. Let it become natural and permanent; let others apply it to you while you’re too busy applying it to those above you. Because if you pick up this mantle once, you’ll see what most people’s egos prevent them from appreciating: The person who clears the path ultimately controls its direction, just as the canvas shapes the painting." -Tim Ferriss
"Heraclitean Fire by Erwin Chargaff," -Tim Ferriss
"Measure the cost of inaction, realize the unlikelihood and repairability of most missteps, and develop the most important habit of those who excel and enjoy doing so: action." -Tim Ferriss
"Tracking anything is better than tracking nothing. If you are very overweight, very weak, very inflexible, or very anything negative, tracking even a mediocre variable will help you develop awareness that leads to the right behavioral changes. This underscores an encouraging lesson: you don’t have to get it all right. You just have to be crystal clear on a few concepts." -Tim Ferriss
"For me, step one is always the same: Write down the 20% of activities and people causing 80% or more of your negative emotions. My step two is doing a 'fear-setting' exercise on paper (page 463), in which I ask and answer, 'What is really the worst that could happen if I stopped doing what I’m considering? And so what? How could I undo any damage?" -Tim Ferriss
"One of his favorite tools for habit tracking and behavioral modification Way of Life app." -Tim Ferriss
"Are You Fooling Yourself with a Plan for Moderation?" -Tim Ferriss
"The Art of Asking: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Let People Help. I read it and upgraded my life in an afternoon of asking for help." -Tim Ferriss
"ANY TIME I’M TELLING MYSELF, ‘BUT I’M MAKING SO MUCH MONEY,’ THAT’S A WARNING SIGN THAT I’M DOING THE WRONG THING." -Tim Ferriss
"Tile Mate key finder on Amazon. It’s given me hours of my life back that were previously spent dashing around the house, looking for my keys. Works great with pets," -Tim Ferriss
"The moral of the story is, whenever possible, do print/text interviews via email. A paper trail will give you evidence and recourse if people misbehave." -Tim Ferriss
"Para entrenar: Black Flag, «My War», cara B. En general: White Buffalo." -Tim Ferriss
"It really made it so palpable that we as human beings, as long as we’re in this body, are feeling machines. If we’re cut off, if our senses are choked off, we are choked off. It was the most therapeutic moment I could imagine." -Tim Ferriss
"I remembered that actually I had always wanted to be a writer. So I started writing that very evening.' Susan Cain" -Tim Ferriss
"Being able to quit things that don’t work is integral to being a winner." -Tim Ferriss
"The truth I have discovered after working with incredible athletes, leaders, and individuals from across the globe is that our humanity is expressed most fully in our treatment of others—when we are respectful, humble, caring, honest, and grateful despite our struggles, disappointments, and failures. It represents the heart and soul of who we are at our best." -Tim Ferriss
"and well-being, including certain ideas, treatments, and procedures that may be hazardous or illegal if undertaken without proper medical supervision. These opinions" -Tim Ferriss
"If you could have a gigantic billboard anywhere with anything on it, what would it say and why? I would not have a billboard, and I would take down every billboard that everybody else has put up." -Tim Ferriss
"Does your life have a purpose? Are you contributing anything useful to this world, or just shuffling papers, banging on a keyboard, and coming home to a drunken existence on the weekends?" -Tim Ferriss
"What 20% of sources are causing 80% of my problems and unhappiness? What 20% of sources are resulting in 80% of my desired outcome and happiness?" -Tim Ferriss
"Life is too short to be busy. Spirit animal: Sponge Cal Fussman Cal Fussman (TW: @calfussman, calfussman.com) is a New York Times best-selling author and a writer-at-large for Esquire magazine, where he is best known for being a primary writer of the What I’ve Learned feature. The Austin Chronicle has described Cal’s interviewing skills as 'peerless.' He has transformed oral history into an art form, conducting probing interviews with icons who have shaped the last 50 years of world history: Mikhail" -Tim Ferriss
"You’re too young.' Most of history was built by young people. They just got credit when they were older." -Tim Ferriss
"Write everything down because it’s all very fleeting." -Tim Ferriss
"As Bruce Lee said, 'Adapt what is useful, reject what is useless, and add what is specifically your own.' THE" -Tim Ferriss
"Blinkist—an app that condenses nonfiction books into 15-minute reads." -Tim Ferriss
"Do you understand it?' 'Do you think they’ll be dominant and growing 3 years from now?' 'Do you think this technology will be more or less a part of our lives in 3 years?" -Tim Ferriss
"Piensa en la edad que tienes ahora y en la versión de ti mismo dentro de diez años." -Tim Ferriss
"The trip had been a dream for almost two decades, relegated to the back of the line behind an ever-growing list of responsibilities. Each passing moment brought a new list of reasons for putting it off. One day, Julie realized that if she didn’t do it now, she would never do it. The rationalizations, legitimate or not, would just continue to add up and make it harder to convince herself that escape was possible. One year of preparation and one 30-day trial run with her husband later, they set sail on the trip of a lifetime. Julie realized almost as soon as the anchor lifted that, far from being a reason not to travel and seek adventure, children are perhaps the best reason of all to do both. Pre-trip, her three little boys had fought like banshees at the drop of a hat. In the process of learning to coexist in a floating bedroom, they learned patience, as much for themselves as for the sanity of their parents. Pre-trip, books were about as appealing as eating sand. Given the alternative of staring at a wall on the open sea, all three learned to love books. Pulling them out of school for one academic year and exposing them to new environments had proven to be the best investment in their education to date. Now sitting in the plane, Julie looked out at the clouds as the wing cut past them, already thinking of their next plans: to find a place in the mountains and ski all year long, using income from a sail-rigging workshop to fund the slopes and more travel. Now that she had done it once, she had the itch." -Tim Ferriss
"A Buddhist Perspective on the Teachings of Jesus.' I really, really, really loved the book. What I liked the most was the Dalai Lama’s guidance on converting to Buddhism. He wrote that if you are part of another religion, please do not convert to Buddhism. Your fastest path to enlightenment and peace of mind and your own good heart is in the religion that you are in." -Tim Ferriss
"go through an exercise that helps me to get present to the reality of the situation. I tell my story to myself from the perspective of a victim, then I tell the exact same story from a place of 100 percent responsibility. Victim: 'I was late to an important event because my girlfriend took too long to get ready. It’s not my fault.' Responsible: 'I acknowledge my breakdown in being late. In the future I am committed to making sure that I do everything I can to ensure that I’m on time." -Tim Ferriss
"#2—10% of people will find a way to take anything personally. Expect it and treat it as math." -Tim Ferriss
"Either you’re in, or you’re in the way.' Often, we chase after people who aren’t 'in,' who, for whatever reason, don’t fit into our lives or our business. We waste time with these people when our focus should be on the people who are in." -Tim Ferriss
"When you feel overwhelmed or unfocused, what do you do? I try to get out of my head and into my body." -Tim Ferriss
"Los dos somos grandes seguidores de Peter Drucker y de su libro El ejecutivo eficaz (Círculo de lectores, 1997), así como de la obra de Alain de Botton (véase capítulo con el mismo título) titulada Cómo cambiar tu vida con Proust (RBA," -Tim Ferriss
"Looking somebody in the eye . . . is often the antidote for what is ailing us." -Tim Ferriss
"It sounds like generic advice, but you’d be hard-pressed to find any successful person who didn’t have about three skills in the top 25%." -Tim Ferriss
"If you have a 10-year plan of how to get [somewhere], you should ask: Why can’t you do this in 6 months?' For purposes of illustration here, I might reword that to: 'What might you do to accomplish your 10-year goals in the next 6 months, if you had a gun against your head?" -Tim Ferriss
"Tengo la firme convicción de que si tienes una idea muy clara de a dónde quieres ir, todo lo demás es mucho más fácil" -Tim Ferriss
"«Es esencial perderse y cambiar de planes de vez en cuando. Es una fuente de creatividad y perspectiva. El peligro de los esquemas, los ayudantes capaces y la planificación es que puedes acabar viviendo la vida como si estuviera planeada. Y si haces eso, es posible que tu potencial no consiga superar tus expectativas.»" -Tim Ferriss
"conlleva mucha incertidumbre y mucha inestabilidad y da mucho miedo a la gente»." -Tim Ferriss
"Perhaps it’s time for you to take a temporary break from pursuing goals to find the knots in the garden hose that, once removed, will make everything else better and easier? It’s incredible what can happen when you stop driving with the emergency brake on." -Tim Ferriss
"I think we need to teach kids two things: 1) how to lead, and 2) how to solve interesting problems. Because the fact is, there are plenty of countries on Earth where there are people who are willing to be obedient and work harder for less money than us. So we cannot out-obedience the competition. Therefore, we have to out-lead or out-solve the other people. . . ." -Tim Ferriss
"In my specific area of longevity, I hear too much emphasis on how people look (sort of important) and feel (important, to be sure), but very little on the actual task of delaying the onset of chronic disease, which is almost the mathematical equivalent of delaying death and improving quality of life. I’m consistently amazed how little the experts in this space advocate for approaches to delay the onset of cardiovascular disease, cancer, neurodegenerative disease, and accidental deaths." -Tim Ferriss
"zero drop: 'Don’t systematically shorten your kids’ heel cords (Achilles) with bad shoes. It results in crappy ankle range of motion in the future. Get your kids Vans, Chuck Taylors, or similar shoes. Have them in flat shoes or barefoot as much as possible." -Tim Ferriss
"Strength is a skill, and, as such, it must be practiced." -Tim Ferriss
"When you raise your kids, you’re the bow, they’re the arrow, and you just try to aim them in the best direction that you can, and hopefully your aim isn’t too off." -Tim Ferriss
"Asset allocation: 'They absolutely, beyond a shadow of a doubt, know they’re going to be wrong . . . so they set up an asset allocation system that will make them successful. They all agree asset allocation is the single most important investment decision." -Tim Ferriss
"suicide.org for a list of international hotlines." -Tim Ferriss
"The quality of your life is the quality of your questions.' Questions determine your focus." -Tim Ferriss
"crear un vehículo automatizado de generación de dinero sin que nos lleve tiempo. Eso es todo." -Tim Ferriss
"debes entrenarte para afrontar las críticas (o incluso disfrutar con ellas)." -Tim Ferriss
"«Creo que desnaturaliza la búsqueda de una formación laboral satisfactoria y de un trabajo satisfactorio," -Tim Ferriss
"Fueron los puritanos los que pervirtieron el trabajo y lo transformaron en virtud, olvidando claramente que Dios lo inventó como castigo" -Tim Ferriss
"Elogio de la ociosidad y otros ensayos (Diario Público, 2010), de Bertrand Russell." -Tim Ferriss
"Am I going be the kind of guy who doesn’t exercise ever? Or not? And if the answer is ‘not,’ then why not right now?" -Tim Ferriss
"And when you lose more than a few clothing sizes, just remember to put on a bit of Gotu Kola cream to minimize stretch marks, as Olympic strength coach Charles Poliquin recommends." -Tim Ferriss
"El futuro ya está aquí, sólo que está repartido de manera desigual." -Tim Ferriss
"«La entrada a la que más envío a la gente se titula: 'First, Ten' ('Primero diez'), y habla de una teoría sencilla de marketing que dice: cuéntaselo a diez personas, enséñaselo a diez personas, compártelo con diez personas; diez personas que ya confíen en ti y que ya te valoren." -Tim Ferriss
"to learn how to not have stress. I would consider myself a world champion at avoiding stress at this point in dozens of different ways. A lot of it is just how you look at the world, but most of it is really the process of diversification. I’m not going to worry about losing one friend if I have a hundred, but if I have two friends I’m really going to be worried. I’m not going to worry about losing my job because my one boss is going to fire me, because I have thousands of bosses at newspapers everywhere. One of the ways to not worry about stress is to eliminate it. I don’t worry about my stock picks because I have a diversified portfolio. Diversification works in almost every area of your life to reduce your stress." -Tim Ferriss
"What is the book (or books) you’ve given most as a gift, and why? Or what are one to three books that have greatly influenced your life? The 15 Commitments of Conscious Leadership by Jim Dethmer and Diana Chapman. Though most people will typically blame other people or circumstances in their life when they are unhappy, Buddhists believe that we are the cause of our own suffering. We can’t control the fact that bad things are going to happen, but it’s how we react to them that really matters, and that we can learn to control. Even if you don’t accept that this is true in all cases, giving it consideration in moments of unhappiness or anxiety will often give you a new perspective and allow you to relax your grip on a negative story. This book is an approachable manual for how to do that tactically, and the lessons it teaches have transformed the way I engage with difficult situations and thus reduced the suffering I experience in big and small ways. Though it is written with leaders in mind, I find myself recommending it to everyone, and we give it to every new employee at Asana." -Tim Ferriss
"Is that a dream, or a goal? Because a dream is something you fantasize about that will probably never happen. A goal is something you set a plan for, work toward, and achieve. I" -Tim Ferriss
"You need to figure out whether you’re feeling like, 'Fuck yeah!' or 'No." -Tim Ferriss
"camiseta en Manhattan en la que ponía que las malas decisiones dan buenas historias." -Tim Ferriss
"The lesson: Rather than striving to be superhuman, I would aspire to be less 'super' and more 'human." -Tim Ferriss
"vida, como abogado, como médico, como agente de bolsa, o lo que sea?»." -Tim Ferriss
"Dealing with the temporary frustration of not making progress is an integral part of the path towards excellence. In" -Tim Ferriss
"Para desarrollar tus aptitudes en un principio, aprendes a establecer prioridades; para conservar tus facultades debes defenderte de las prioridades de los demás." -Tim Ferriss
"The worst really wasn’t that bad." -Tim Ferriss
"interesting." -Tim Ferriss
"California Poppy Extract: If both honey + ACV and Yogi Bedtime Tea fail, try plan C: a few drops of California poppy extract in warm water. Yogi Bedtime Tea does contain California poppy extract, but taking it directly allows you to increase the dose." -Tim Ferriss
"y que debemos sacrificar nuestra privacidad para tener seguridad.»" -Tim Ferriss
"SCOTTY: She’s all yours, sir. All systems automated and ready. A chimpanzee and two trainees could run her! CAPTAIN KIRK: Thank you, Mr. Scott. I’ll try not to take that personally. —STAR TREK" -Tim Ferriss
"KetoCaNa y KetoForce" -Tim Ferriss
"It’s not what you know, it’s what you do consistently." -Tim Ferriss
"La vida es demasiado corta para tenerla ocupada." -Tim Ferriss
"RAPID MUSCLE GAIN All chapters in 'Fundamentals' All chapters in 'Ground Zero' 'From Geek to Freak' 'Occam’s Protocol I and II' Total page count: 97" -Tim Ferriss
"It’s a short reminder that success can usually be measured by the number of uncomfortable conversations we are willing to have, and by the number of uncomfortable actions we are willing to take." -Tim Ferriss
"Once You Have Some Success—If It’s Not a 'Hell, Yes!' It’s a 'No" -Tim Ferriss
"Almost every guest has been able to take obvious 'weaknesses' and turn them into huge competitive advantages" -Tim Ferriss
"¿Cuál es el peor consejo que ves u oyes dar en tu entorno?" -Tim Ferriss
"Hacer menos trabajo fútil para concentrarse en cosas de mayor importancia personal para uno NO es pereza. Esto nos resulta difícil de aceptar a la mayoría porque nuestra cultura recompensa el sacrificio personal en lugar de la productividad personal." -Tim Ferriss
"La cuestión del monopolio: ¿Empiezas con una parte grande de un mercado pequeño? La cuestión del secreto: ¿Has identificado una oportunidad única que los demás no ven? La cuestión de la distribución: ¿Tienes alguna manera no sólo de fabricar sino también de distribuir tu producto?" -Tim Ferriss
"Remember, my friends, never underestimate the power of one breath. Mental fitness and joy on demand both start here, with one breath." -Tim Ferriss
"Watch what people are cynical about, and one can often discover what they lack.'—George S. Patton" -Tim Ferriss
"Descubres tu 'sueño' (u objetivo en la vida) a medida que recorres el camino," -Tim Ferriss
"Maxims and Reflections by Goethe:" -Tim Ferriss
"An expert is a person who has made all the mistakes that can be made in a very narrow field.' –Niels Bohr Danish physicist and Nobel Prize winner" -Tim Ferriss
"«La analogía que yo uso es, si sales a cenar fuera, te llevará un par de horas." -Tim Ferriss
"What we fear doing is usually what we most need to do." -Tim Ferriss
"I started with 60–120 seconds total of air squats and wall tricep extensions immediately prior to eating main courses." -Tim Ferriss
"El sufrimiento procede de tres patrones de pensamiento: pérdida, menos, nunca.»" -Tim Ferriss
"The World Doesn’t Need Your Explanation. On Saying 'No': 'I don’t give explanations anymore, and I’ll catch myself when I start giving explanations like ‘Oh, I’m sorry, I can’t make it. I have a doctor’s appointment that day. I’m really sick. I broke my leg over the weekend’ or something. I just say, ‘I can’t do it. I hope everything is well." -Tim Ferriss
"(1) Define a to-do list and (2) define a not-to-do list. In general terms, there are but two questions:" -Tim Ferriss
"porque cuando te sientes agradecido, todos sabemos que no hay ira." -Tim Ferriss
"Don’t use skepticism as a thinly veiled excuse for inaction or remaining in your comfort zone." -Tim Ferriss
"¿NO HAS ENCONTRADO TU OBJETIVO GENERAL, ÚNICO EN LA VIDA? TAL VEZ NO SEA NECESARIO «Olvídate de tener un propósito. Está bien ser feliz sin tenerlo. La persecución de un propósito único ha arruinado muchas vidas.»" -Tim Ferriss
"Stressed’ is the achiever word for ‘fear." -Tim Ferriss
"No estás dedicando mucho tiempo a reflexionar sobre esta especie de macrooptimización." -Tim Ferriss
"like, up to" -Tim Ferriss
"«Mirar a alguien a los ojos… suele ser el antídoto contra lo que nos enferma.»" -Tim Ferriss
"Most situations are simple—many are just emotionally difficult to act upon." -Tim Ferriss
"Amplify Your Strengths Rather Than Fix Your Weaknesses" -Tim Ferriss
"It’s worth taking a look at the supposed indignities of 'serving' someone else. Because in reality, not only is the apprentice model responsible for some of the greatest art in the history of the world—everyone from Michelangelo to Leonardo da Vinci to Benjamin Franklin has been forced to navigate such a system" -Tim Ferriss
"The War of Art," -Tim Ferriss
"Life is too short to be small. —BENJAMIN DISRAELI" -Tim Ferriss
"He just keeps looking left to the hay, and right to the water, trying to decide. Hay or water, hay or water? He’s unable to decide, so he eventually falls over and dies of both hunger and thirst. A donkey can’t think of the future." -Tim Ferriss
"When we fail to reason honestly, we have lost our connection to the world and to one another." -Tim Ferriss
"It’s not enough to use information for 'something'—it needs to be immediate and important." -Tim Ferriss
"We equate being smart and being driven as the ways to get ahead. But sometimes, an attitude of alert watchfulness is far wiser and more effective. Learning to follow your nose, pulling on threads of curiosity or interest, may take you places that being driven will never lead you to." -Tim Ferriss
"descubrió GiveWell.org," -Tim Ferriss
"All you do is you pick a goal and you write it down 15 times a day in some specific sentence form, like ‘I, Scott Adams, will become an astronaut,’ for example. And you do that every day." -Tim Ferriss
"Quick Gmail Trick Noah and I both use the Gmail '+' trick all the time. Let’s say your email address is bob@bobsmith.com. After signing up for services or newsletters, how can you tell who’s sharing your email, or contain the damage if someone discovers your login email? Companies get hacked all the time. Just use + as cheap insurance. If you append + and a word to the beginning, messages will still get delivered to your inbox. Signing up for Instacart, for instance? You could use bob+insta@bobsmith.com. I use this, or benefit from it, on a daily basis." -Tim Ferriss
"It is said that if everyone is your customer, then no one is your customer." -Tim Ferriss
"Falta de tiempo es falta de prioridades. Si estoy «ocupado» es porque he tomado decisiones que me han puesto en esa situación, así que me he prohibido a mí mismo responder la pregunta: «¿Cómo estás?» con «Ocupado». No tengo ningún derecho a quejarme. Más bien, si estoy demasiado ocupado es señal de que debo replantearme mis métodos y mis reglas." -Tim Ferriss
"embroidered cowboy shirt. He bought his first one, impulsively, at the Reno airport en route to a speech, and the reaction prompted him to buy out half the store on his return.' He likes the brands Scully and Rockmount. A good place to look at" -Tim Ferriss
"There are no real rules, so make rules that work for you." -Tim Ferriss
"by" -Tim Ferriss
"Brilliant 10 by Popular Science" -Tim Ferriss
"Living Well' (Barron’s, March 20, 2006, Suzanne McGee). 4. Goldian VandenBroeck, ed. From Less Is More: An Anthology of Ancient and Modern Voices Raised in Praise of Simplicity (Inner Traditions, 1996)." -Tim Ferriss
"There’s the instant, unconscious, automatic thinking and then there’s the slower, conscious, rational, deliberate thinking." -Tim Ferriss
"Dr. B. J. Fogg, founder of the Persuasive Technology Lab at Stanford University, wrote his graduate dissertation with a far less aggressive commitment. Even if he came home from a party at 3:00 A.M., he had to write one sentence per day. He finished in record time while classmates languished for years, overwhelmed by the enormity of the task. Understanding this" -Tim Ferriss
"Regret is past-tense decision making." -Tim Ferriss
"But if you don’t cultivate ‘turning it on’ as a way of life in the little moments—and there are hundreds of times more little moments than big—then there’s no chance in the big moments. . . . I believe that when you’re not cultivating quality, you’re essentially cultivating sloppiness." -Tim Ferriss
"Busy yourself with the routine of the money wheel, pretend it’s the fix-all, and you artfully create a constant distraction that prevents you from seeing just how pointless it is. Deep down, you know it’s all an illusion, but with everyone participating in the same game of make-believe, it’s easy to forget." -Tim Ferriss
"if we’re serious all the time, we’ll wear out before we get the truly serious stuff done." -Tim Ferriss
"What gets measured gets managed.' –Peter Drucker" -Tim Ferriss
"(Véase el apartado titulado «La ley de la categoría».)" -Tim Ferriss
"Do not overestimate the competition and underestimate yourself. You are better than you think." -Tim Ferriss
"How to Win Friends and Influence People by Dale Carnegie. For females: West with the Night by Beryl Markham." -Tim Ferriss
"»La tercera cosa es que cuando intentas hacer algo diez veces más grande, en lugar de un 10 por ciento mayor, no suele resultarte cien veces más difícil, pero la recompensa sí es cien veces mayor.»" -Tim Ferriss
"Fear itself is quite fear-inducing. Most intelligent people in the world dress it up as something else: optimistic denial. Most who avoid quitting their jobs entertain the thought that their course will improve with time or increases in income." -Tim Ferriss
"«Si haces la cama cada mañana, cumples la primera obligación del día. Te confiere un pequeño sentimiento de orgullo y te anima a realizar otra tarea y otra y otra. Al final del día, aquella primera obligación cumplida se habrá convertido en muchas más también cumplidas. Hacer la cama también refuerza la idea de que las cosas pequeñas son importantes en la vida»." -Tim Ferriss
"Tonight, I will be in my bed. Tonight, I will be in my bed. Tonight, I will be in my bed.’ . . . It was something I repeated to remind me that the pain of what I was going through was temporary and that, no matter what, at the end of that day, I would" -Tim Ferriss
"NetLimiter con Windows" -Tim Ferriss
"There are two coaches who have had enormous impact on me in the last five years: Carolyn Coughlin at Cultivating Leadership and Jim Dethmer at Conscious Leadership." -Tim Ferriss
"Otra de mis armas favoritas es practicar el miedo:" -Tim Ferriss
"Los trabajos interesantes son los que creas tú." -Tim Ferriss
"My answer is: Be clear that your ladder is leaning against the right building." -Tim Ferriss
"Kettlebell windmills (or 'high windmills') are incredible for hip rehab and 'prehab.' The standing position is similar to yoga’s trikonasana, but you support 70 to 80% of your weight on one leg while you keep a kettlebell overhead. YouTube is your friend." -Tim Ferriss
"we often forget that industries are often transformed by neophytes. The boldest transformations, like Uber disrupting transportation or Airbnb disrupting hospitality, are led by outsiders." -Tim Ferriss
"The disease of our times is that we live on the surface. We’re like the Platte River, a mile wide and an inch deep. I always say, 'If you want to become a billionaire, invent something that will allow people to indulge their own Resistance.' Somebody did invent it. It’s called the Internet. Social media. That wonderland where we can flit from one superficial, jerkoff distraction to another, always remaining on the surface, never going deeper than an inch." -Tim Ferriss
"The fundamental cause of the trouble is that in the modern world the stupid are cocksure while the intelligent are full of doubt.'—Bertrand Russell" -Tim Ferriss
"First, let’s focus on those critical first steps. Define three steps for each dream that will get you closer to its actualization. Set actions—simple, well-defined actions—for now, tomorrow (complete before 11 A.M.) and the day after (again completed before 11 A.M.). Once you have three steps for each of the four goals, complete the three actions in the 'now' column. Do it now. Each should be simple enough to do in five minutes or less. If not, rachet it down. If it’s the middle of the night and you can’t call someone, do something else now, such as send an e-mail, and set the call for first thing tomorrow. If the next stage is some form of research, get in touch with someone who knows the answer instead of spending too much time in books or online, which can turn into paralysis by analysis. The best first step, the one I recommend, is finding someone who’s done it and ask for advice on how to do the same. It’s not hard. Other options include setting a meeting or phone call with a trainer, mentor, or salesperson to build momentum. Can you schedule a private class or a commitment that you’ll feel bad about canceling? Use guilt to your advantage. Tomorrow becomes never. No matter how small the task, take the first step now!" -Tim Ferriss
"Dedicas cinco minutos a pensar a dónde irás a cenar." -Tim Ferriss
"Two Words for Conflict Resolution '[My mentor’s] life advice to me, when I’m going into a conflict or a difficult situation with my parents or an argument with Neil [Gaiman, her husband] is, ‘Say less.’ That’s it. Just say less." -Tim Ferriss
"Semen analysis (includes volume, which should be >1.5 ml; concentration/count > 20 million/ml; motility > 40%; morphology > 30% normal by WHO criteria) Testosterone (both total and free) Estradiol Luteinizing hormone (LH) Follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) (tests hypothalamus functioning) Prolactin (pituitary level) Total cholesterol (160–200) AST (20–30) ALT (20–30)" -Tim Ferriss
"Puede que la acción no siempre traiga la felicidad, pero no hay felicidad sin acción." -Tim Ferriss
"Manuka honey bandages. Amelia has scars all over her shoulders and back from barbed-wire wounds." -Tim Ferriss
"Fear itself is quite fear-inducing. Most intelligent people in the world dress it up as something else: optimistic denial." -Tim Ferriss
"Do not expect work to fill a void that non-work relationships and activities should." -Tim Ferriss
"If you haven’t already accomplished at least one important task in the day, don’t spend the last business hour returning a DVD to avoid a $5 late charge. Get the important task done and pay the $5 fine." -Tim Ferriss
"The only way to truly learn something is by doing it. Yes, listen to guidance. But don’t wait." -Tim Ferriss
"Extreme Ownership: How U.S. Navy SEALs Lead and Win. He has since authored a best-selling children’s book, Way of the Warrior Kid, and his latest, Discipline Equals Freedom: Field Manual, which details his unique mental and physical 'operating system." -Tim Ferriss
"$1,000,000 in the bank isn’t the fantasy. The fantasy is the lifestyle of complete freedom it supposedly allows. The question is then, How can one achieve the millionaire lifestyle of complete freedom without first having $1,000,000?" -Tim Ferriss
"Eustress, on the other hand, is a word most of you have probably never heard. Eu-, a Greek prefix for 'healthy,' is used in the same sense in the word 'euphoria.' Role models who push us to exceed our limits, physical training that removes our spare tires, and risks that expand our sphere of comfortable action are all examples of eustress—stress that is healthful and the stimulus for growth." -Tim Ferriss
"Are You Over-Correlated?" -Tim Ferriss
"The Art of Simple Food by Chez Panisse founder Alice Waters lined" -Tim Ferriss
"Behind the Scenes Sam and I first met in the bathroom at TED in 2010, immediately after I’d accidentally (truthfully) eaten two enormous pot brownies. I was not prepared for the THC or Sam Harris, and especially not mega-THC and Sam Harris." -Tim Ferriss
"Asymmetrical risks and rewards: 'Every single one of them is obsessed with asymmetrical risk and reward. . . . It simply means they’re looking to use the least amount of risk to get the max amount of upside, and that’s what they live for. . . . [They don’t believe they] have to take huge risks for huge rewards. Say, ‘How do I get no risk and get huge rewards?’ and because you ask a question continuously and you believe [there’s an] answer, you get it." -Tim Ferriss
"there is only one you, and no one can do things exactly the way you do. Never worry about the competition." -Tim Ferriss
"[Floating in an isolation tank] is the first time that we’ve been without sensory experience, sensory environmental stimuli, since we were conceived. There is no sound, no sight, no temperature gradient, and no gravity. So all of the brain’s searching and gating information from the environment is relaxed. Everything that was in the background—kind of ‘behind the curtain’—can now be exposed. When done consistently over time, it’s essentially like meditation on steroids. It starts to recalibrate the entire neuroendocrine system. People who are running in stress mode or sympathetic overdrive start to relax that over time, and you get this bleed-over effect into everyday life. It’s not just what happens in the tank. It continues outside of the tank. You see heart rate normalize, hypertension normalize, cortisol normalize. Pain starts to resolve. Metabolic issues start to resolve. 'Anxiety, insomnia, and mental chattering can be significantly improved in [2 to 3 times per week for a total of] anywhere between 3 and 7 sessions. For pain, it’s normally 7 to 10 sessions. I recommend doing a 2-hour float if people are able.' TF: According to Dan, most people get exponentially more benefit from a single 2-hour session than 2 separate 1-hour sessions. Nonetheless, 2-hour floats still make me fidgety, so I routinely do 1-hour sessions." -Tim Ferriss
"¿has oído alguna vez la expresión 'activación reticular'?" -Tim Ferriss
"Sports evolve when sacred cows are killed, when basic assumptions are tested. The same is true in life and in lifestyles." -Tim Ferriss
"Being busy is not the same as being productive." -Tim Ferriss
"I think we need to teach kids two things: 1) how to lead, and 2) how to solve interesting problems. Because the fact is, there are plenty of countries on Earth where there are people who are willing to be obedient and work harder for less money than us." -Tim Ferriss
"No matter what the situation may be, the right course of action is always compassion and love.' (paraphrased from one of his teachers, Barbara McNally)" -Tim Ferriss
"They tried to bury us. They didn’t know we were seeds.' —Mexican proverb There are some secrets we don’t share because they’re embarrassing. Like that time I met Naval Ravikant (page 546) by accidentally hitting on his girlfriend at a coffee shop? Oops. Or the time a celebrity panelist borrowed my laptop to project a boring corporate video, and a flicker of porn popped up—à la Fight Club—in front of a crowd of 400 people? Another good example. But then there are dark secrets. The things we tell no one. The shadows we keep covered for fear of unraveling our lives. For me, 1999 was full of shadows. So much so that I never wanted to revisit them. I hadn’t talked about this traumatic period publicly until April 29, 2015, during a Reddit AMA (Ask Me Anything). What follows is the sequence of my downward spiral. In hindsight, it’s incredible how trivial some of it seems. At the time, though, it was the perfect storm. I include wording like 'impossible situation,' which was reflective of my thinking at the time, not objective reality. I still vividly recall these events, but any quotes are paraphrased. So, starting where it began . . . It’s the beginning of my senior year at Princeton University. I’m slated to graduate around June of 1999. Somewhere in the next six months, several things happen in the span of a few weeks. First, I fail to make it to final interviews for McKinsey consulting and Trilogy software, in addition to others. I have no idea what I’m doing wrong, and I start losing confidence after 'winning' in the game of academics for so long. Second, a long-term (for" -Tim Ferriss
"«Suelo saber si voy bien encaminado con algo cuando siento un poco de miedo. Me digo: 'Caray, podría estropearlo'.»" -Tim Ferriss
"First, let us take a quick pass of the 11 questions. Some of them might seem trite or useless at first glance. . . . But lo! Things are not always what they appear. What is the book (or books) you’ve given most as a gift, and why? Or what are one to three books that have greatly influenced your life? What purchase of $100 or less has most positively impacted your life in the last six months (or in recent memory)? My readers love specifics like brand and model, where you found it, etc. How has a failure, or apparent failure, set you up for later success? Do you have a 'favorite failure' of yours? If you could have a gigantic billboard anywhere with anything on it—metaphorically speaking, getting a message out to millions or billions—what would it say and why? It could be a few words or a paragraph. (If helpful, it can be someone else’s quote: Are there any quotes you think of often or live your life by?) What is one of the best or most worthwhile investments you’ve ever made? (Could be an investment of money, time, energy, etc.) What is an unusual habit or an absurd thing that you love? In the last five years, what new belief, behavior, or habit has most improved your life? What advice would you give to a smart, driven college student about to enter the 'real world'? What advice should they ignore? What are bad recommendations you hear in your profession or area of expertise? In the last five years, what have you become better at saying no to (distractions, invitations, etc.)? What new realizations and/or approaches helped? Any other tips? When you feel overwhelmed or unfocused, or have lost your focus temporarily, what do you do? (If helpful: What questions do you ask yourself?)" -Tim Ferriss
"enthusiastically adopted biofeedback HRV training," -Tim Ferriss
"His Message at a High School Commencement 'You guys are programmed to succeed. The hardest thing you’re ever going to do in your life is fail at something, and if you don’t start failing at things, you will not live a full life. You’ll be living a cautious life on a path that you know is pretty much guaranteed to more or less work. That’s not getting the most out of this amazing world we live in. You have to do the hardest thing that you have not been prepared for in this school or any school: You have to be prepared to fail. That’s how you’re going to expand yourself and grow. As you work through that process of failure and learning, you will really deepen into the human being you’re capable of being.' * What advice would you give your younger self? 'I would say to myself, ‘The public is not a threat.’ When you realize that we all need each other, and that we can all learn from each other, your stage fright goes away." -Tim Ferriss
"How to Stay Motivated y Secrets of Closing the Sale, de Zig Ziglar:" -Tim Ferriss
"It is more profitable to be a big fish in a small pond than a small undefined fish in a big pond." -Tim Ferriss
"No valores únicamente las posibles desventajas de actuar." -Tim Ferriss
"The opposite of love is indifference, and the opposite of happiness is - here's the clincher - boredom. Excitement is the more practical synonym for happiness, and it is precisely what you should strive to chase. It is the cure-all." -Tim Ferriss
"Kanye, why do you have a giant picture of you on the wall?’ and Kanye goes, ‘Well, I got to cheer for me before anyone else can cheer for me.’ I thought, ‘There is some fantastic logic. That’s a good response." -Tim Ferriss
"Note that criticism is not failure. If you’re not being criticized, you’re probably not doing anything exceptional." -Tim Ferriss
"A. H. Almaas: 'Ultimately, your gift to the world is being who you are. It is both your gift and your fulfillment." -Tim Ferriss
"You can’t be afraid to show your scars." -Tim Ferriss
"Algunos recursos resultan obvios a primera vista, mientras" -Tim Ferriss
"No te esfuerces por corregir tus debilidades; potencia tus fortalezas." -Tim Ferriss
"Perfection is not when there is no more to add, but no more to take away. —ANTOINE DE SAINT-EXUPÉRY, pioneer" -Tim Ferriss
"There is more to life than increasing its speed. —MOHANDAS GANDHI" -Tim Ferriss
"Sobre Richard Branson: «Lo primero que se plantea con cada negocio es: '¿Cuáles son los inconvenientes? ¿Y cómo me guardo de ellos?'." -Tim Ferriss
"First of all, if we’re serious all the time, we’ll wear out before we get the truly serious stuff done. Second, if this book were all stern looks and no winks, all productivity and no grab-assing, you’d remember very little. I agree with Tony Robbins (page 210) that information without emotion isn’t retained." -Tim Ferriss
"The primary resource, as you’ll come back to this: Dom’s top go-to resource for the ketogenic diet, including FAQs, meal plans, and more is ketogenic-diet-resource.com." -Tim Ferriss
"When you feel overwhelmed or unfocused, what do you do? I work with my mindset coach, Elliot Roe, and/or use our app Primed Mind. After ten minutes, I’m in the zone, recharged, and ready to focus on my upcoming challenges." -Tim Ferriss
"Let me give you an example. Cute is usually kids and dogs, and bizarre is just anything that’s out of place. If you know your cartoon history, you will know that The Far Side used primarily the dimension of putting something out of place. So you’d have an animal talking." -Tim Ferriss
"Look at it as a test drive of one to two weeks. If you want to walk an hour a day, don’t start with one hour. Choosing one hour is automatically building in the excuse of not having enough time. Commit to a fail-proof five minutes instead. This is exactly what Dr. Fogg suggested to his sister, and that one change (the smallest meaningful change that created momentum) led her to buy running shoes and stop eating dessert, neither of which he suggested. These subsequent decisions are referred to in the literature as 'consonant decisions,' decisions we make to be aligned with a prior decision. Take the pressure off and do something" -Tim Ferriss
"If you can’t be first in a category, set up a new category you can be first in." -Tim Ferriss
"Los datos quedarán encriptados cuando la máquina esté apagada o en modo suspendido." -Tim Ferriss
"Have you ever watched kids On a merry-go-round? Or listened to the rain Slapping on the ground? Ever followed a butterfly’s erratic flight? Or gazed at the sun into the fading night? You better slow down. Don’t dance so fast. Time is short. The music won’t last. Do you run through each day On the fly? When you ask: How are you? Do you hear the reply? When the day is done, do you lie in your bed With the next hundred chores Running through your head? You’d better slow down. Don’t dance so fast. Time is short. The music won’t last. Ever told your child, We’ll do it tomorrow? And in your haste, Not see his sorrow? Ever lost touch, Let a good friendship die Cause you never had time To call and say, 'Hi'? You’d better slow down. Don’t dance so fast. Time is short. The music won’t last. When you run so fast to get somewhere You miss half the fun of getting there. When you worry and hurry through your day, It is like an unopened gift thrown away. Life is not a race. Do take it slower. Hear the music Before the song is over." -Tim Ferriss
"Cuando algo es verdaderamente rompedor, el día previo era una idea descabellada." -Tim Ferriss
"¿Qué tal si me relajo? Por una vez, haré el mismo trayecto en bici sin ir a paso de tortuga, pero a la mitad de mi ritmo habitual'. Monté en la bici y fue agradable. »Hice el mismo recorrido, y noté que me erguía, y que miraba más a mi alrededor. Contemplé el océano, y vi que había delfines saltando en el mar, y llegué hasta Marina" -Tim Ferriss
"suddenly, you’re going to have to lead it a different way, and what you’re really going to have to do is develop people. The advice I’d give to anyone young is it’s really about developing people who are going to do the work." -Tim Ferriss
"I think you’d love this puppy. Why don’t you just take him home and see what you think? You can just bring him back if you change your mind." -Tim Ferriss
"Fussell, Chris: '‘Life is a series of choices—take accountability for yours." -Tim Ferriss
"The only true voyage would be not to travel through a hundred different lands with the same pair of eyes, but to see the same land through a hundred different pairs of eyes.' —MARCEL PROUST" -Tim Ferriss
"Sleep Master sleep mask and Mack’s Pillow Soft Silicone Putty (ear plugs):" -Tim Ferriss
"para detectar y decidir si permitir o bloquear este tipo de conexión por parte de una aplicación concreta," -Tim Ferriss
"One of my favorite quotes is by Ralph Waldo Emerson: 'To laugh often and much; to win the respect of intelligent people and the affection of children . . . to leave the world a bit better . . . to know even one life has breathed easier because you have lived; this is to have succeeded." -Tim Ferriss
"Które 20% źródeł powoduje 80% moich problemów i bolączek? Które 20% źródeł przynosi mi moje upragnione rezultaty i uszczęśliwia mnie?" -Tim Ferriss
"Those of you who often over-commit or feel too scattered may appreciate a new philosophy I’m trying: If I’m not saying 'HELL YEAH!' about something, then I say no. Meaning: When deciding whether to commit to something, if I feel anything less than 'Wow! That would be amazing! Absolutely! Hell yeah!'—then my answer is no. When you say no to most things, you leave room in your life to really throw yourself completely into that rare thing that makes you say, 'HELL YEAH!' We’re all busy. We’ve all taken on too much. Saying yes to less is the way out." -Tim Ferriss
"So if you’re planning to do something with your life, if you have a 10-year plan of how to get there, you should ask: Why can’t you do this in 6 months? Sometimes, you have to actually go through the complex, 10-year trajectory. But it’s at least worth asking whether that’s the story you’re telling yourself, or whether that’s the reality." -Tim Ferriss
"I can think' → Having good rules for decision-making, and having good questions you can ask yourself and others. 'I can wait' → Being able to plan long-term, play the long game, and not misallocate your resources. 'I can fast' → Being able to withstand difficulties and disaster. Training yourself to be uncommonly resilient and have a high pain tolerance." -Tim Ferriss
"I manage to go jobless until three months after graduation, when I pull out my trump card and send one start-up CEO 32 consecutive e-mails. He finally gives in and puts me in sales." -Tim Ferriss
"The choice is between multiplication of results using strengths or incremental improvement fixing weaknesses that will, at best, become mediocre. Focus on better use of your best weapons instead of constant repair." -Tim Ferriss
"But please know that it’s often the tiny details that really thrill someone enough to make them tell all their friends about you." -Tim Ferriss
"Inside suffering is the seed of change." -Tim Ferriss
"Going 16 hours without eating generally provides the right balance of autophagy (look it up) and anabolism (muscle building)." -Tim Ferriss
"You can tell the true character of a man by how his dog and his kids react to him.'   'If you don’t believe in God, you should believe in the technology that’s going to make us immortal." -Tim Ferriss
"If you spend 2 hours a day without an electronic device, looking your kid in the eye, talking to them and solving interesting problems, you will raise a different kid than someone who doesn’t do that. That’s one of the reasons why I cook dinner every night. Because what a wonderful, semi-distracted environment in which the kid can tell you the truth. For you to have low-stakes but superimportant conversations with someone who’s important to you.' ON" -Tim Ferriss
"Send someone a thank-you note tomorrow." -Tim Ferriss
"Somewhere along the line, we seem to have confused comfort with happiness. —Dean Karnazes," -Tim Ferriss
"Steve Jobs quote in our conversation, which is printed in full below. It was recorded in a 1995 interview conducted by the Santa Clara Valley Historical Association, while Jobs was still at NeXT: 'Life can be much broader, once you discover one simple fact, and that is that everything around you that you call ‘life’ was made up by people that were no smarter than you. And you can change it, you can influence it, you can build your own things that other people can use. Once you learn that, you’ll never be the same again." -Tim Ferriss
"I don’t think failure is sometimes part of the process—it always is. When you feel you can’t go on, know that you’re just getting started." -Tim Ferriss
"Humans Use Only 10% of Their Brains? Not Quite . . . 'The most complex structure in the entire universe doesn’t have just a vacant parking lot waiting for someone to drive in and start building. It’s all used all the time, and in complex ways that we don’t always understand." -Tim Ferriss
"When I let go of what I am, I become what I might be." -Tim Ferriss
"Perfection is achieved, not when there is nothing more to add, but when there is nothing left to take away. —Antoine de Saint-Exup" -Tim Ferriss
"Set aside a certain number of days, during which you shall be content with the scantiest and cheapest fare, with course and rough dress, saying to yourself the while: 'Is this the condition that I feared?' —SENECA" -Tim Ferriss
"Intelligence is like following a GPS route right into a body of water until you drown. Wisdom looks at the route but, when it takes a turn into the ocean, decides not to follow it, then finds a new, better way. Wisdom reigns supreme." -Tim Ferriss
"Reality is merely an illusion, albeit a very persistent one. —ALBERT EINSTEIN" -Tim Ferriss
"Facebook News Feed Eradicator: ¿Necesitas centrarte? Líbrate de Facebook y de tu yo más" -Tim Ferriss
"As Billy points out, if your last three turns are precise, then what you’re internalizing on the lift ride up is precision. So I carry this on to the guys who I train in the finance world, for example: ending the work day with very high quality, which for one thing means you’re internalizing quality overnight." -Tim Ferriss
"Cómo prosperar en un futuro incierto? Elige el plan con más opciones. El mejor plan es el que te permita cambiar de planes.»" -Tim Ferriss
"siempre que te encuentres con alguien le digas en tu cabeza 'te quiero" -Tim Ferriss
"You Say 'Health Is #1' . . . But Is It Really?" -Tim Ferriss
"Man’s Search for Meaning by Viktor Frankl The Fourth Turning by William Strauss (Also, Generations by William Strauss, which was gifted to Tony by Bill Clinton) Mindset by Carol Dweck (for parenting) As a Man Thinketh by James Allen (see Shay Carl, page 441)" -Tim Ferriss
"Así que el filtro se fija automáticamente para tu nombre, porque eso es lo que más te importa." -Tim Ferriss
"The first rule of any technology used in a business is that automation applied to an efficient operation will magnify the efficiency. The second is that automation applied to an inefficient operation will magnify the inefficiency." -Tim Ferriss
"Rosetta Stone language kiosk. I asked if I could try their Turkish demo, which the woman was kind enough to let me test-drive for 15 minutes. I skipped to a Level 3 test, which is intended to be taken after 120–150 hours of study, and scored more than 80% correct. In addition to saving me time, that 30-minute, 12-sentence audit saved me $399." -Tim Ferriss
"Cualquier cosa de Kevin Kelly, la más reciente es The Inevitable." -Tim Ferriss
"The Biology of Desire: Why Addiction Is Not a Disease by Marc Lewis." -Tim Ferriss
"Am I being productive or just active? Charney captured the essence of this with less-abstract wording: Am I inventing things to do to avoid the important? He eliminated all of the activities he used as crutches and began to focus on demonstrating results instead of showing dedication. Dedication is often just meaningless work in disguise. Be ruthless and cut the fat." -Tim Ferriss
"What’s on the other side of fear?' His answer is always, 'Nothing." -Tim Ferriss
"I’ve given it to, maybe ten of them have actually opened the book and done the exercises. Of those ten, seven have had books, movies, TV shows," -Tim Ferriss
"Meetings are an addictive, highly self-indulgent activity that corporations and other organizations habitually engage in only because they cannot actually masturbate." -Tim Ferriss
"Así que quiero animar a la gente a que, en lugar de eso, aspire a lo pequeño. Que te sitúes en un punto medio, allí donde la gente pueda encontrarte. Que tengas algún tipo de interacción con una tribu, con un grupo donde no tengas un montón de botes salvavidas.»" -Tim Ferriss
"Aim for the Heart, Not the Head 'Lesson number one, when people ask me what [interviewing] tips would I give, is aim for the heart, not the head. Once you get the heart, you can go to the head. Once you get the heart and the head, then you’ll have a pathway to the soul." -Tim Ferriss
"I thought about this a lot when I gave the commencement address at MIT back in 2013. I said that if I had a cheat sheet I could give myself at 22, it would have three things on it: a tennis ball, a circle, and the number 30,000. The tennis ball is about finding something that you can become obsessed with, like my childhood dog who would go crazy whenever anyone threw a ball for her. The most successful people I know are all obsessed with solving a problem that really matters to them. The circle refers to the idea that you’re the average of your five closest friends. Make sure to put yourself in an environment that pulls the best out of you. And the last is the number 30,000. When I was 24, I came across a website that says most people live for about 30,000 days—and I was shocked to find that I was already 8,000 days down. So you have to make every day count. I’d give the same advice today, but I would clarify that it’s not just about passion or following your dreams. Make sure the problem you become obsessed with is one that needs solving and is one where your contribution can make a difference. As Y Combinator says, 'Make something people want." -Tim Ferriss
"«Siempre que te descubras en el lado de la mayoría, es hora de detenerse a reflexionar.» MARK TWAIN" -Tim Ferriss
"Feel good about really hearing those who disagree with you." -Tim Ferriss
"never let a good crisis go to waste. It’s the universe challenging you to learn something new and rise to the next level of your potential. On the other hand, when not in crisis, I consider 'my life is great' as a cop-out, a stuck place, where learning is no longer available to us. Which is why you shouldn’t wait for crisis to happen before you take steps to go beyond what you’re capable of seeing on your own." -Tim Ferriss
"Cardinal Giuseppe Mezzofanti, born 1774, was called 'the Devil' on many occasions. The charming Italian could speak at least 39 languages and, by some accounts, had been tested in 72. As arguably the world’s most famous hyperpolyglot, he was also systematic." -Tim Ferriss
"I am an old man and have known a great many troubles, but most of them never happened. —MARK TWAIN" -Tim Ferriss
"Live the questions so that, one day, you will live yourself into the answers." -Tim Ferriss
"THE BEST PLAN IS THE ONE THAT LETS YOU CHANGE YOUR PLANS." -Tim Ferriss
"The opposite of love is indifference, and the opposite of happiness is—here’s the clincher—boredom." -Tim Ferriss
"So the goal isn’t to get good ideas; the goal is to get bad ideas. Because once you get enough bad ideas, then some good ones have to show up." -Tim Ferriss
"Service for the Right Reasons: To Save the Whales, or Kill Them and Feed the Children? Morality is simply the attitude we adopt toward people we personally dislike. —OSCAR WILDE" -Tim Ferriss
"Too much, too many, and too often of what you want becomes what you don’t want. This is true of possessions and even time." -Tim Ferriss
"Truth is, young creative minds don’t need more ideas, they need to take more responsibility with the ideas they’ve already got." -Tim Ferriss
"The X1 Search program: instant, precision searching by independent criteria (not just Google-style search string goulash) to pinpoint my files and emails going back to the 1980s. As info explodes, and my memory doesn’t get better, it’s a godsend." -Tim Ferriss
"As to methods, there may be a million and then some, but principles are few. The man who grasps principles can successfully select his own methods. —Ralph Waldo Emerson The system is the solution. —AT&T" -Tim Ferriss
"I didn’t think my own chart was weird, but in January, I showed it to my team, thinking they’d find it really inspiring and motivating. But people respond to mortality in very different ways. It was the worst meeting I’ve ever run. I don’t think they knew what I was trying to convey. Some people see that as, 'Hey, every year is really exciting and valuable,' and some people react with, 'Oh wow, I’m gonna die.' It didn’t go over well, so I don’t share that chart anymore. Experiment failed." -Tim Ferriss
"A) read a few pages of stoicism, like Marcus Aurelius’s Meditations, and B) control at least a few things you can control." -Tim Ferriss
"If the potential payoff is mediocre or average, so is your effort." -Tim Ferriss
"A Pattern Language by Christopher Alexander." -Tim Ferriss
"A veces también puedes convertir algo del montón en un producto estrella inventando una categoría nueva." -Tim Ferriss
"Learn to ask, 'If this is the only thing I accomplish today, will I be satisfied with my day?" -Tim Ferriss
"* Dime algo en lo que tú creas y que los demás encuentran demencial" -Tim Ferriss
"The limits of my language mean the limits of my world." -Tim Ferriss
"When I was 55, I went to Poland and learned that my mother’s five brothers died because of prostate cancer, each when they were close to 55 years old. As I stood looking at the grave of one of them, I realized I was 55 myself. When I returned to the States, I immediately visited my doctor, who informed me that my prostate was large and had nodules. She tested my PSA, and after seeing the result of 9.5, she sent me to the urologist. He was very fast and forceful with his recommendation: biopsy and possible removal. 'Wait, wait,' I said. 'Let me think about it.' The doctor urged me to make a quick decision, but I wanted to do some research first. The whole next week, I studied the literature about my condition and decided to change my diet, incorporating many more vegetables, before taking drastic medical action. The result? After six months my PSA was down to 5, and after another six months it reached 1. Another half a year later it hit 0.1, and it has been like this every year since." -Tim Ferriss
"Ni tampoco significa que haya que racionalizarlos hasta convertirlos en algo bueno." -Tim Ferriss
"I believe that music and people don’t mix; that music should be appreciated alone without seeing or knowing who the musicians are and without other people around. Just listening to music for its own sake, not listening to the people around you and not filtered through what you know about the musician’s personal life." -Tim Ferriss
"The Point of Journalism Is the Truth 'The point of journalism is the truth. The point of journalism is not to improve society. There are things, there are facts, there are truths that actually feel regressive, but it doesn’t matter, because the point of journalism isn’t to make everything better. It’s to give people accurate information about how things are." -Tim Ferriss
"Develop the habit of letting small bad things happen. If you don’t, you’ll never find time for the life-changing big things." -Tim Ferriss
"Anyone who lives within their means suffers from a lack of imagination.' –Oscar Wilde Irish writer, author of The Picture of Dorian Gray" -Tim Ferriss
"Lose an hour in the morning, chase it all day.'—" -Tim Ferriss
"Aporrear árboles con un hacha roma no es manera de ir por la vida. Prueba durante siete días y afila tu mente." -Tim Ferriss
"Action may not always bring happiness, but there is no happiness without action." -Tim Ferriss
"Glenn recounted what he learned from an old lady who, at age 16, gave a Jew a bowl of soup. It was a death sentence at the time and she was sent to Auschwitz: 'She said, ‘Glenn, remember, the righteous didn’t suddenly become righteous. They just refused to go over the cliff with everybody else.’ That’s all we have to do: Know what our principles—not our interests—are today. And as the world goes over the cliff, I’m not going to change my principles. Treating human beings, whether they’re like me or not like me, whether they’re the same religion or a different religion, with love and respect." -Tim Ferriss
"Morning pages don’t need to solve your problems. They simply need to get them out of your head, where they’ll otherwise bounce around all day like a bullet ricocheting inside your skull. Could bitching and moaning on paper for 5 minutes each morning change your life? As crazy as it seems, I believe the answer is yes." -Tim Ferriss
"Try one or more of Chade-Meng Tan’s suggested exercises, starting on page 154. They are simple and brilliant. I practice a few times per week, often in the sauna." -Tim Ferriss
"Andy Grove had the answer: For every metric, there should be another ‘paired’ metric that addresses adverse consequences of the first metric." -Tim Ferriss
"Momentum: extensión de Chrome para facilitar la concentración." -Tim Ferriss
"Scott believes there are six elements of humor: naughty, clever, cute, bizarre, mean, and recognizable. You have to have at least two dimensions to succeed." -Tim Ferriss
"«La primera regla que se aplica a la tecnología utilizada en un negocio es que la automatización aplicada a una actividad eficiente acrecentará su eficiencia. La segunda es que la automatización aplicada a una actividad ineficiente acrecentará su ineficiencia.» BILL GATES" -Tim Ferriss
"There are two synergistic approaches for increasing productivity that are inversions of each other:Limit tasks to the important to shorten work time (80/20).Shorten work time to limit tasks to the important (Parkinson’s Law).The best solution is to use both together: Identify the few critical tasks that contribute most to income and schedule them with very short and clear deadlines." -Tim Ferriss
"«Tal vez suene demencial, pero me miro al espejo y me sonrío a mí mismo…" -Tim Ferriss
"The Alchemist by Paulo Coelho Snow Crash by Neal Stephenson The Sovereign Individual by James Dale Davidson and Lord William Rees-Mogg" -Tim Ferriss
"To enjoy life, you don’t need fancy nonsense, but you do need to control your time and realize that most things just aren’t as serious as you make them out to be." -Tim Ferriss
"At the bar—I don’t drink either, but I’m told that at the bar—they serve honey oatmeal vodka. I reverse engineered the recipe, and it’s not a still, but I make it in my basement. The recipe, for those who are interested, is you take a bottle of vodka—you don’t want the supercheap stuff but you don’t want the expensive stuff because that’s a little bit of a rip-off—you pour it over a pound of just plain old oatmeal, uncooked, and half a jar of honey. You let it sit in the fridge for 2 weeks, stirring it now and then. Then you strain it back into the original bottle and you’re done.' *" -Tim Ferriss
"Here’s how the math works. You need to meet two criteria: First, you have to create enough each year that you can earn, on average, $100 profit from each true fan." -Tim Ferriss
"D: To make a ton of money. NR: To make a ton of money with specific reasons and defined dreams to chase, timelines and steps included. What are you working for? D: To have more. NR: To have more quality and less clutter. To have huge financial reserves but recognize that most material wants are justifications for spending time on the things that don’t really matter, including buying things and preparing to buy things. You spent two weeks negotiating your new Infiniti with the dealership and got $10,000 off? That’s great. Does your life have a purpose? Are you contributing anything useful to this world, or just shuffling papers, banging on a keyboard, and coming home to a drunken existence on the weekends?" -Tim Ferriss
"There is always constant pressure to conform. But originality only happens on the edges of reality." -Tim Ferriss
"A lot of professions assume that you’re going to take eight to ten years just to achieve the minimum level of competence necessary to start to practice. That’s been a good grounding force when doing projects, because a lot of things go wrong here and there, but if you just assume that anything worthwhile is going to take five to ten years, they don’t feel as severe." -Tim Ferriss
"Never automate something that can be eliminated, and never delegate something that can be automated or streamlined. Otherwise, you waste someone else’s time instead of your own, which now wastes your hard-earned cash. How’s that for incentive to be effective and efficient? Now you’re playing with your own dough. It’s something I want you to get comfortable with, and this baby step is small stakes." -Tim Ferriss
"We want to attach ourselves to narratives. We don’t act because of equations. We follow our beliefs. We get behind leaders who stir our feelings." -Tim Ferriss
"Tons of people deserve to be successful because they’re supersmart and interesting and work hard, but they just haven’t had the luck." -Tim Ferriss
"Chapter One I walk down the street. There is a deep hole in the sidewalk. I fall in. I am lost . . . I am helpless. It isn’t my fault. It takes forever to find a way out. Chapter Two I walk down the same street. There is a deep hole in the sidewalk. I pretend I don’t see it. I fall in again. I can’t believe I am in this same place. But it isn’t my fault. It still takes a long time to get out. Chapter Three I walk down the same street. There is a deep hole in the sidewalk. I see it is there. I still fall in . . . it’s a habit . . . but, my eyes are open. I know where I am. It is my fault. I get out immediately. Chapter Four I walk down the same street. There is a deep hole in the sidewalk. I walk around it. Chapter Five I walk down another street." -Tim Ferriss
"Magnesium and calcium are easiest to consume in pill form, and 500 milligrams of magnesium taken prior to bed will also improve sleep." -Tim Ferriss
"Películas: El caso Bourne30 (Bourne Identity), Zombies party31 (Shaun of the Dead)." -Tim Ferriss
"«Pienso en los problemas como minas de oro. Los problemas más grandes del mundo son las mayores oportunidades de negocio del mundo»." -Tim Ferriss
"Self-esteem is just the reputation that you have with yourself." -Tim Ferriss
"2. Check e-mail twice per day, once at 12:00 noon or just prior to lunch, and again at 4:00 P.M. 12:00 P.M. and 4:00 P.M. are times that ensure you will have the most responses from previously sent e-mail." -Tim Ferriss
"Someday' is disease that will take your dreams to the grave with you.." -Tim Ferriss
"«Tener más fortaleza» era, sobre todo, una decisión para tener más fortaleza." -Tim Ferriss
"Él parte esos nueve o diez minutos en tres segmentos. Éste es un resumen abreviado:" -Tim Ferriss
"Other recession-born babies include Monopoly, Apple, Clif Bar, Scrabble, KFC, Domino’s Pizza, FedEx, and Microsoft. This is no coincidence, as economic downturns produce discounted infrastructure, outstanding freelancers at bargain prices, and rock-bottom advertising deals—all impossible when everyone is optimistic." -Tim Ferriss
"Sometimes, the Best 'No' Is No Reply 'Why put in the effort to explain why it isn’t a fit, if they haven’t done the homework to determine if it is a fit?" -Tim Ferriss
"Life is a full-contact sport, especially on the Internet. If you’re going to step into the arena, bloody noses and a lot of scrapes are par for the course." -Tim Ferriss
"Investing in yourself is the most important investment you’ll ever make in your life." -Tim Ferriss
"Excitement is the more practical synonym for happiness," -Tim Ferriss
"What was the 'grail'? 25 mg of acarbose (¼ pill) with food." -Tim Ferriss
"The number-one theme that companies have when they really struggle is they are not charging enough for their product." -Tim Ferriss
"All courses of action are risky, so prudence is not in avoiding danger (it’s impossible), but calculating risk and acting decisively. Make mistakes of ambition and not mistakes of sloth. Develop the strength to do bold things, not the strength to suffer.' –Niccolò Machiavelli 16th-century Italian philosopher, dubbed 'the father of modern political science,' author of The Prince" -Tim Ferriss
"Let’s come up with as many ideas as possible, and then put them under scrutiny, and basically try to kill them off, and if they were unkillable, then we’d keep going with them." -Tim Ferriss
"I did make a conscious decision, a long time ago, to choose time over money, since you can always make more money. And I’ve always understood that the best investment of my limited time on earth is to spend it with people I love. I suppose it’s possible I’ll lie on my deathbed regretting that I didn’t work harder, write more, and say everything I had to say, but I think what I’ll really wish is that I could have one more round of Delanceys with Nick, another long late-night talk with Lauren, one last good hard laugh with Harold. Life is too short to be busy." -Tim Ferriss
"To do or not to do? To try or not to try? Most people will vote no, whether they consider themselves brave or not. Uncertainty and the prospect of failure can be very scary noises in the shadows. Most people will choose unhappiness over uncertainty. For years, I set goals, made resolutions to change direction, and nothing came of either. I was just as insecure and scared as the rest of the world." -Tim Ferriss
"Being busy is most often used as a guise for avoiding the few critically important but uncomfortable actions. The options are almost limitless for creating 'busyness':" -Tim Ferriss
"In other words, I was risking an unlikely and temporary 3 or 4 for a probable and permanent 9 or 10," -Tim Ferriss
"My confidence came from my vision. . . . I am a big believer that if you have a very clear vision of where you want to go, then the rest of it is much easier." -Tim Ferriss
"[So, what do you do?] I never enjoyed answering this cocktail question because it reflects an epidemic I was long part of: job descriptions as self-descriptions. If someone asks me now and is anything but absolutely sincere, I explain my lifestyle of mysterious means simply. I'm a drug dealer." -Tim Ferriss
"In real estate, the adage is, 'You make your profit when you buy the property, not when you sell it.' In cooking, it could be, 'You guarantee a good meal by picking the recipes well, not by following recipes well." -Tim Ferriss
"Book your A list for after your first 10 pitches." -Tim Ferriss
"Ralph Waldo Emerson: 'To laugh often and much; to win the respect of intelligent people and the affection of children . . . to leave the world a bit better . . . to know even one life has breathed easier because you have lived; this is to have succeeded." -Tim Ferriss
"Don’t overestimate the world and underestimate yourself. You are better than you think." -Tim Ferriss
"I start watching the Food Network for 1–2 hours a night to decompress from my start-up. Half-asleep one evening, I overhear Bobby Flay say, 'Take risks and you’ll get the payoffs. Learn from your mistakes until you succeed. It’s that simple." -Tim Ferriss
"Podemos inventarlo, podemos convencernos de que irá bien. O" -Tim Ferriss
"Create two timelines—6 months and 12 months—and list up to five things you dream of having (including, but not limited to, material wants: house, car, clothing, etc.), being (be a great cook, be fluent in Chinese, etc.), and doing (visiting Thailand, tracing your roots overseas, racing ostriches, etc.) in that order." -Tim Ferriss
"My first job. Ah, the memories. I’m hired for minimum wage as the cleaner at an ice cream parlor and quickly realize that the big boss’s methods duplicate effort. I do it my way, finish in one hour instead of eight, and spend the rest of the time reading kung-fu magazines and practicing karate kicks outside. I am fired in a record three days, left with the parting comment, 'Maybe someday you’ll understand the value of hard work.' It seems I still don’t." -Tim Ferriss
"It begins at the beginning. The New Rich can be separated from the crowd based on their goals, which reflect very distinct priorities and life philosophies." -Tim Ferriss
"Before the development of tourism, travel was conceived to be like study, and its fruits were considered to be the adornment of the mind and the formation of the judgment. —PAUL FUSSELL, Abroad" -Tim Ferriss
"más del 80 por ciento de los grandes triunfadores que he entrevistado practican alguna clase de meditación cada mañana." -Tim Ferriss
"The truth is that the pain of broken trust and betrayed friendship is simply the cost of caring and deeply connecting to others." -Tim Ferriss
"If you don’t have 20 minutes to delve into yourself through meditation, then that means you really need 2 hours." -Tim Ferriss
"Julia is the co-founder of the Center for Applied Rationality, a nonprofit that runs workshops on improving reasoning and decision-making." -Tim Ferriss
"televisión de una hora de duración titulado: 'A Chance in Hell: The Battle for Ramadi'.»" -Tim Ferriss
"The whole point of addiction is that people are compelled to it by suffering, trauma, unease, and emotional pain. If you want to help people, ask why they are in so much pain that they are driven (there’s that word again) to escape from it through ultimately self-harming habits or substances. Then support them in healing the trauma at the core of their addiction, a process that always starts with nonjudgmental curiosity and compassion." -Tim Ferriss
"1. Which 20% of sources are causing 80% of my problems and unhappiness? 2. Which 20% of sources are resulting in 80% of my desired outcomes and happiness?" -Tim Ferriss
"Por suerte, multiplicar los resultados por diez no siempre requiere un esfuerzo diez veces mayor. Los cambios grandes pueden llegar en paquetes pequeños." -Tim Ferriss
"«Los pingüinos son, en esencia, salchichas emplumadas para osos polares.»" -Tim Ferriss
"If you dare, then you have already gotten further ahead than 99 percent of all the others.' Daniel Ek" -Tim Ferriss
"Productos o servicios destinados a los consumidores. Productos de los que yo pudiera ser un ferviente usuario habitual, productos que cubrieran una necesidad personal." -Tim Ferriss
"Wine is a grocery, not a luxury." -Tim Ferriss
"John Dewey’s dictum that 'a problem well put is half-solved' applies." -Tim Ferriss
"Accept reality, but focus on the solution. Take that issue, take that setback, take that problem, and turn it into something good. Go forward. And, if you are part of a team, that attitude will spread throughout." -Tim Ferriss
"I am not interested in picking up crumbs of compassion thrown from the table of someone who considers himself my master. I want the full menu of rights. —BISHOP DESMOND TUTU, South African cleric and activist" -Tim Ferriss
"Morning routine Every morning, Justin does 20 minutes of Transcendental Meditation followed by outdoor kettlebell swings with 24 kg (53 lbs). I do exactly the same thing 2 to 3 times per week, aiming for 50 to 75 repetitions of two-handed swings per The 4-Hour Body." -Tim Ferriss
"Chris mentioned several books when he appeared on my podcast, including I Seem to Be a Verb by Buckminster Fuller. 48 hours later, used copies were selling for" -Tim Ferriss
"En mi caso, la decisión de invertir en una startup llega después de seguir un proceso muy inclinado hacia el cociente emocional." -Tim Ferriss
"The Conquest of Happiness" -Tim Ferriss
"We are drawn to tasks where we can receive validation through results, but I’ve learned that true fulfillment comes from love of the process. Look for something where you love the process, and the results will follow." -Tim Ferriss
"The Power of Persuasion by Robert Levine. The" -Tim Ferriss
"¿hay algo que puedas hacer por ella? Y que lo vieras como una manera de beneficiarla a ella y no a ti. El" -Tim Ferriss
"Remembering that you are going to die is the best way I know to avoid the trap of thinking you have something to lose. —STEVE JOBS," -Tim Ferriss
"Who do you think of when you hear the word 'successful'? CHRIS: 'I’ll answer it this way, and I don’t know if this gets to the exact point. I had a great mentor early on in my career give me advice that I’ve heeded until now, which is that you should have a running list of three people that you’re always watching: someone senior to you that you want to emulate, a peer who you think is better at the job than you are and who you respect, and someone subordinate who’s doing the job you did—one, two, or three years ago—better than you did it. If you just have those three individuals that you’re constantly measuring yourself off of, and you’re constantly learning from them, you’re going to be exponentially better than you are." -Tim Ferriss
"emprendedor en el sentido más puro del término, tal como fue acuñado en 1800 por el economista francés J. B. Say: alguien que traslada recursos económicos desde un ámbito donde producen menos a otro donde rindan más." -Tim Ferriss
"The world is this continually unfolding set of possibilities and opportunities, and the tricky thing about life is, on the one hand having the courage to enter into things that are unfamiliar, but also having the wisdom to stop exploring when you’ve found something worth sticking around for. That is true of a place, of a person, of a vocation." -Tim Ferriss
"Hay algo muy raro en una sociedad en la que toda la gente con más talento es guiada hacia los mismos centros de elite, donde acaban estudiando la misma cantidad reducida de asignaturas y llegando a un mismo número reducido de carreras." -Tim Ferriss
"Para inscribirte en Instacart, por ejemplo, podrías usar bob+insta@bobsmith.com. Yo uso esta herramienta o me resulta de utilidad a diario." -Tim Ferriss
"«La realidad es una mera ilusión, aunque muy persistente.» ALBERT EINSTEIN" -Tim Ferriss
"For all of the most important things, the timing always sucks. Waiting for a good time to quit your job? The stars will never align and the traffic lights of life will never all be green at the same time." -Tim Ferriss
"If you run into an asshole in the morning, you ran into an asshole. If you run into assholes all day, you’re the asshole.' I" -Tim Ferriss
"The goal wasn’t specific enough. I hadn’t defined alternate activities that would replace the initial workload. Therefore, I just continued working, even though there was no financial need. I needed to feel productive and had no other vehicles. This is how most people work until death: 'I’ll just work until I have X dollars and then do what I want.' If you don’t define the 'what I want' alternate activities, the X figure will increase indefinitely to avoid the fear-inducing uncertainty of this void." -Tim Ferriss
"What does an igloo-dwelling millionaire do that a cubicle-dweller doesn’t? Follow an uncommon set of rules. How does a lifelong blue-chip employee escape to travel the world for a month without his boss even noticing? He uses technology to hide the fact. Gold is getting old. The New Rich (NR) are those who abandon the deferred-life plan and create luxury lifestyles in the present using the currency of the New Rich: time and mobility. This is an art and a science we will refer to as Lifestyle Design (LD)." -Tim Ferriss
"1) To get huge, good things done, you need to be okay with letting the small, bad things happen. 2) People’s IQs seem to double as soon as you give them responsibility and indicate that you trust them." -Tim Ferriss
"In negotiation, he who cares the least wins." -Tim Ferriss
"Which of these highest-value activities is the easiest for me to do?" -Tim Ferriss
"Las opciones son infinitas, pero todos los caminos empiezan dando el mismo paso: cambiando lo que das por supuesto." -Tim Ferriss
"Pero el problema es que si piensas a corto plazo, entonces actúas como si no fueran a pasar nunca si no las haces todas esa semana. La solución está en pensar a largo plazo. Caer en la cuenta de que puedes hacer una de esas cosas durante unos años y, después, otra. Seguramente has oído la fábula del asno de Buridán, creo que se llama, sobre un asno que estando a medio camino entre un montón de heno y un balde de agua, se limita a mirar a la izquierda, al montón de heno, y a la derecha, al balde de agua, intentando decidir. ¿Heno o agua, heno o agua? Como es incapaz de decidir, al final se cae muerto de hambre y de sed. Un asno no puede imaginar el futuro. De haberlo hecho, habría visto con claridad" -Tim Ferriss
"Life is always happening for us, not to us. It’s our job to find out where the benefit is. If we do, life is magnificent" -Tim Ferriss
"TF: Lack of time is lack of priorities. If I’m 'busy,' it is because I’ve made choices that put me in that position, so I’ve forbidden myself to reply to 'How are you?' with 'Busy.' I have no right to complain. Instead, if I’m too busy, it’s a cue to reexamine my systems and rules." -Tim Ferriss
"«Si los mejores del mundo se parten el culo para hacerse fuertes, ¿por qué no lo haces tú?»" -Tim Ferriss
"In any field, there’s usually some kind of mythological reward you’re supposed to receive if everybody considers you a success. But in my experience, there’s a lot more honest joy to be had from taking pleasure in the work itself." -Tim Ferriss
"Gold is getting old. The New Rich (NR) are those who abandon the deferred-life plan and create luxury lifestyles in the present using the currency of the New Rich: time and mobility." -Tim Ferriss
"No intentes complacer a nadie más que a ti mismo… En" -Tim Ferriss
"What is the 20% of my belongings that I use 80% of the time? Eliminate the other 80% in clothing, magazines, books, and all else. Be ruthless—you can always repurchase things you can’t live without." -Tim Ferriss
"The superheroes you have in your mind (idols, icons, elite athletes, billionaires, etc.) are nearly all walking flaws who’ve maximized one or two strengths. Humans are imperfect creatures. You don’t 'succeed' because you have no weaknesses; you succeed because you find your unique strengths and focus on developing habits around them. . . . Everyone is fighting a battle [and has fought battles] you know nothing about. The heroes in this book are no different. Everyone struggles." -Tim Ferriss
"a Man Thinketh (James Allen), Man’s Search for Meaning" -Tim Ferriss
"Higher pricing means that we can sell fewer units—and thus manage fewer customers—and fulfill our dreamlines. It’s faster. Higher pricing attracts lower-maintenance customers (better credit, fewer complaints/questions, fewer returns, etc.). It’s less headache. This is HUGE. Higher pricing also creates higher profit margins. It’s safer." -Tim Ferriss
"we think we understand the world, giving investors a false sense of confidence, when in fact we always more or less misunderstand it." -Tim Ferriss
"Buddhists believe that we are the cause of our own suffering. We can’t control the fact that bad things are going to happen, but it’s how we react to them that really matters, and that we can learn to control." -Tim Ferriss
"An expert is a person who has made all the mistakes that can be made in a very narrow field. —NIELS BOHR," -Tim Ferriss
"He recommended I read the book Words That Work, written by Republican political strategist Frank Luntz. It’s brilliant. Matt added, 'If someone likes that book, then I might point them to George Lakoff. He has a great seminal work from the 1980s called Women, Fire, and Dangerous Things.' He loves books about framing and language." -Tim Ferriss
"Everyone starts an ungodly number of sentences with 'And' or 'So.' I and millions of others tend to use 'and I was like' instead of 'and I said.' Many of us mix up plural and singular. This all works fine in conversation, but it can hiccup on the printed page." -Tim Ferriss
"Si lo que tienes es estrés, recurre a Pema." -Tim Ferriss
"Boner or No Boner? 'Men, if you wake up and you don’t have a boner, there’s a problem. Yes or no? One or zero? Boner, no boner?" -Tim Ferriss
"La guerra del arte es uno de esos trabajos que te hacen exclamar" -Tim Ferriss
"From Bacteria to Bach and Back: The Evolution of Minds by Daniel C. Dennett. How consciousness arises, and how much it depends on a sense of past, present, and future (plus a lot of other interesting insights)." -Tim Ferriss
"The supine groin progressive, the most inconvenient, unusual, and time-consuming of the five, is the singular most effective tool I’ve found for eliminating psoas and other hip flexor tightness to unlock the pelvis and relieve hamstring tightness." -Tim Ferriss
"If the commitment is to a long-term goal and not to a series of smaller intermediate goals, then only one decision needs to be made and adhered to. Clear, simple, straightforward. Much easier to maintain than having to make small decision after small decision to stay the course when dealing with each step along the way. This provides far too many opportunities to inadvertently drift from your chosen goal. The single decision is one of the most powerful tools in the toolbox." -Tim Ferriss
"To become 'successful,' you have to say 'yes' to a lot of experiments. To learn what you’re best at, or what you’re most passionate about, you have to throw a lot against the wall." -Tim Ferriss
"von Ahn, PhD, (TW: @LuisvonAhn, duolingo.com) is a computer science professor at Carnegie Mellon University and the CEO of Duolingo, a free language learning platform with more than 100 million users." -Tim Ferriss
"At least three times per day at scheduled times, he had to ask himself the following question: Am I being productive or just active?" -Tim Ferriss
"conscious thinking is largely asking and answering questions in your own head. If you want confusion and heartache, ask vague questions. If you want uncommon clarity and results, ask uncommonly clear questions." -Tim Ferriss
"Use Parkinson’s Law on a Macro and Micro Level. Use Parkinson’s Law to accomplish more in less time. Shorten schedules and deadlines to necessitate focused action instead of deliberation and procrastination." -Tim Ferriss
"The superheroes you have in your mind (idols, icons, titans, billionaires, etc.) are nearly all walking flaws who’ve maximized 1 or 2 strengths. Humans are imperfect creatures. You don’t 'succeed' because you have no weaknesses; you succeed because you find your unique strengths and focus on developing habits around them. To make this crystal-clear, I’ve deliberately included two sections in this book (pages 197 and 616) that will make you think: 'Wow, Tim Ferriss is a mess. How the hell does he ever get anything done?' Everyone is fighting a battle you know nothing about. The heroes in this book are no different. Everyone struggles. Take solace in that." -Tim Ferriss
"«Lo recuerdo muy bien diciéndome que no me preocupara por lo que fuera a ser en un futuro porque el trabajo que haría aún no se había inventado…" -Tim Ferriss
"Doing the Unrealistic Is Easier Than Doing the Realistic From contacting billionaires to rubbing elbows with celebrities—the second group of students did both—it’s as easy as believing it can be done. It’s lonely at the top. Ninety-nine percent of people in the world are convinced they are incapable of achieving great things, so they aim for the mediocre. The level of competition is thus fiercest for 'realistic' goals, paradoxically making them the most time- and energy-consuming. It is easier to raise $1,000,000 than it is $100,000. It is easier to pick up the one perfect 10 in the bar than the five 8s. If you are insecure, guess what? The rest of the world is, too. Do not overestimate the competition and underestimate yourself. You are better than you think. Unreasonable and unrealistic goals are easier to achieve for yet another reason. Having an unusually large goal is an adrenaline infusion that provides the endurance to overcome the inevitable trials and tribulations that go along with any goal. Realistic goals, goals restricted to the average ambition level, are uninspiring and will only fuel you through the first or second problem, at which point you throw in the towel. If the potential payoff is mediocre or average, so is your effort." -Tim Ferriss
"Pero por favor, no olvides que a menudo son los pequeños detalles los que verdaderamente conmueven tanto a la gente como para que hablen de ti a sus amistades." -Tim Ferriss
"An expert is a person who has made all the mistakes that can be made in a very narrow field." -Tim Ferriss
"Getting Real: The Smarter, Faster, Easier Way to Build a Successful Web Application, which is available for free at gettingreal.37signals.com." -Tim Ferriss
"All courses of action are risky, so prudence is not in avoiding danger (it’s impossible), but calculating risk and acting decisively. Make mistakes of ambition and not mistakes of sloth. Develop the strength to do bold things, not the strength to suffer.' –Niccolò Machiavelli" -Tim Ferriss
"As I have heard said, a person’s success in life can usually be measured by the number of uncomfortable conversations he or she is willing to have. Resolve to do one thing every day that you fear." -Tim Ferriss
"Most see excellence as some grand aspiration. Wrong. Dead wrong. My two cents: Excellence is the next five minutes or nothing at all. It’s the quality of your next five-minute conversation. It’s the quality of, yes, your next email. Forget the long term. Make the next five minutes rock!" -Tim Ferriss
"How do you know if you have A-players on your project team? You know it if they don’t just accept the strategy you hand them. They should suggest modifications to the plan based on their closeness to the details." -Tim Ferriss
"There is no way to happiness—happiness is the way.' –THICH NHAT HANH" -Tim Ferriss
"Whenever you find yourself on the side of the majority, it’s time to pause and reflect.' —Mark Twain." -Tim Ferriss
"WHY EXERCISE IS IMPORTANT TO STAN Aside from the self-image and performance aspects: 'It also puts discipline in the day. I find that if the day is terrible, but I worked out, at the end of the day I’ll go, ‘Well, I had a good workout,’ almost no matter what happens." -Tim Ferriss
"One True God: Historical Consequences of Monotheism by Rodney Stark The Idea of Decline in Western History by Arthur Herman" -Tim Ferriss
"You only have the rights you fight for." -Tim Ferriss
"Reality is negotiable. Outside of science and law, all rules can be bent or broken, and it doesn't require being unethical" -Tim Ferriss
"Relative Income Is More Important Than Absolute Income." -Tim Ferriss
"si te reporta mucho, si te permite actuar con autonomía, si" -Tim Ferriss
"I’d rather die doing something I feel is great and amazing rather than be safe and comfortable living a life I hate." -Tim Ferriss
"[Evander Holyfield] said that his coach at one point told him, something like his very first day, ‘You could be the next Muhammad Ali. Do you wanna do that?’ Evander said he had to ask his mom. He went home, he came back and said, ‘I wanna do that.’ The coach said, ‘Okay. Is that a dream or a goal? Because there’s a difference.’ 'I’d never heard it said that way, but it stuck with me. So much so that I’ve said it to my kid now: ‘Is that a dream, or a goal? Because a dream is something you fantasize about that will probably never happen. A goal is something you set a plan for, work toward, and achieve. I always looked at my stuff that way. The people who were successful models to me were people who had structured goals and then put a plan in place to get to those things. I think that’s what impressed me about Arnold [Schwarzenegger]. It’s what impressed me about my father-in-law [Vince McMahon]." -Tim Ferriss
"Why Exercise Is Important to Stan Aside from the self-image and performance aspects: 'It also puts discipline in the day. I find that if the day is terrible, but I worked out, at the end of the day I’ll go, ‘Well, I had a good workout,’ almost no matter what happens. When" -Tim Ferriss
"To me, it means using pain to find clarity. If pain is examined and not ignored, it can show you what to excise from your life." -Tim Ferriss
"When you are just starting out, we can be sure of a few fundamental realities: 1) You’re not nearly as good or as important as you think you are; 2) you have an attitude that needs to be readjusted; 3) most of what you think you know or most of what you learned in books or in school is out of date or wrong." -Tim Ferriss
"There’s no difference between a pessimist who says, 'Oh, it’s hopeless, so don’t bother doing anything,' and an optimist who says, 'Don’t bother doing anything, it’s going to turn out fine anyway.' Either way, nothing happens." -Tim Ferriss
"In the last five years, what new belief, behavior, or habit has most improved your life? Mindfulness meditation, which I started doing regularly about five years ago, has changed my life more than any other behavior. I feel like it rewired my brain (probably because it did). At first, I felt the effects very powerfully. After a few years, it feels less dramatic but necessary. If I go more than a couple days without sitting, I feel off. Wish I had started many years before." -Tim Ferriss
"Thrive: The Third Metric to Redefining Success and Creating a Life of Well-Being, Wisdom, and Wonder, and The Sleep Revolution: Transforming Your Life, One Night at a Time." -Tim Ferriss
"positive impact on my recovery. (It also helps you sleep if used before bed.) Warning: Start slow. I tried to copy Amelia and did 20-plus minutes my first session. The next day, I felt like I’d been put in a sleeping bag and swung against a tree for a few hours. Rolling your foot on top of a golf ball on the floor to increase 'hamstring' flexibility. This is infinitely more helpful than a lacrosse ball. Put a towel on the floor underneath the golf ball, lest you shoot your dog’s eye out. Concept2 SkiErg for training when your lower body is injured. After knee surgery, Amelia used this low-impact machine to maintain cardiovascular endurance and prepare for the 2014 World’s Toughest Mudder, which she won 8 weeks post-op. Kelly Starrett (page 122) is also a big fan of this device. Dry needling: I’d never heard of this before meeting Amelia. '[In acupuncture] the goal is not to feel the needle. In dry-needling, you are sticking the needle in the muscle belly and trying to get it to twitch, and the twitch is the release.' It’s used for super-tight, over-contracted muscles, and the needles are not left in. Unless you’re a masochist, don’t have this done on your calves. Sauna for endurance: Amelia has found using a sauna improves her endurance, a concept that has since been confirmed by several other athletes, including cyclist David Zabriskie, seven-time U.S. National Time Trial Championship winner. He considers sauna training a more practical replacement for high-altitude simulation tents. In the 2005 Tour de France, Dave won the Stage 1 time trial, making him the first American to win stages in all three Grand Tours. Zabriskie beat Lance Armstrong by seconds, clocking an average speed of 54.676 kilometers per hour (!). I now use a sauna at least four times per week. To figure out the best protocols, I asked another podcast guest, Rhonda Patrick. Her response is on page 7. * Who do you think of when you hear the word 'successful'?" -Tim Ferriss
"La perfección no se alcanza cuando no hay nada más que añadir, sino cuando ya no queda nada que quitar. Antoine de Saint-Exupéry" -Tim Ferriss
"You are 99 years old, you are on your deathbed, and you have a chance to come back to right now: what would you do?" -Tim Ferriss
"The genuine love for reading itself, when cultivated, is a superpower." -Tim Ferriss
"There is just less competition for bigger goals. Doing big things begins with asking for them properly." -Tim Ferriss
"The Gary Halbert Letter (también conocido como The Boron Letters) y Ogilvy on Advertising." -Tim Ferriss
"The man who tries methods, ignoring principles, is sure to have trouble." -Tim Ferriss
"Be a member of your target market and don’t speculate what others need or will be willing to buy." -Tim Ferriss
"I now often ask myself, 'Is this really a problem I need to think my way out of? Or is it possible I just need to fix my biochemistry?' I’ve wasted a lot of time journaling on 'problems' when I just needed to eat breakfast sooner, do 10 push-ups, or get an extra hour of sleep. Sometimes, you think you have to figure out your life’s purpose, but you really just need some macadamia nuts and a cold fucking shower." -Tim Ferriss
"Our life is frittered away by detail…. Simplify, simplify…. A man is rich in proportion to the number of things which he can afford to let alone.' —Henry David Thoreau, Walden" -Tim Ferriss
"Dom suggests a 5-day fast 2 to 3 times per year." -Tim Ferriss
"Recuerda que los beneficios sólo te beneficiarán en la medida en que puedas disfrutar de ellos." -Tim Ferriss
"The goal is fun and profit." -Tim Ferriss
"Work hard to beat the competition.' The truth is that competition is the opposite of creativity. If I am working hard to beat the competition, it actually prevents me from thinking creatively to make all concepts of competition obsolete." -Tim Ferriss
"Several families interviewed for this book recommended the oldest persuasive tool known to man: bribery. Each child is given some amounts of virtual cash, 25-30 cents, for each hour of good behaviour. The same amount is subtracted from their accounts for breaking the rules. All purchases for fun - whether souvenirs, ice cream, or otherwise - come out of their own individual accounts. No balance, no goodies. This often requires more self-control on the part of the parents than the children." -Tim Ferriss
"«Si sabes escribir bien, también sabes pensar bien.»" -Tim Ferriss
"«Uno es recalcar que realizarás ochenta mil horas de trabajo a lo largo de tu vida." -Tim Ferriss
"Alternating periods of activity and rest is necessary to survive, let alone thrive. Capacity, interest, and mental endurance all wax and wane." -Tim Ferriss
"two primary goals or tasks per day." -Tim Ferriss
"What advice would you give to a smart, driven college student about to enter the 'real world'? Most of the game is about persistence. It is the most important trait. Sure, when you get an opportunity, you have to perform and you have to exceed beyond all expectations, but getting that chance is the hardest part. So keep the vision clear in your head and every day refuse all obstacles to get to the goal." -Tim Ferriss
"Too much, too many, and too often of what you want becomes what you don’t want. This is true of possessions and even time. Lifestyle Design is thus not interested in creating an excess of idle time, which is poisonous, but the positive use of free time, defined simply as doing what you want as opposed to what you feel obligated to do." -Tim Ferriss
"It is critical that you decide how you will sell and distribute your product before you commit to a product in the first place. The more middlemen are involved, the higher your margins must be to maintain profitability for all the links in the chain." -Tim Ferriss
"Whether you are raising money, pitching your product to customers, selling the company, or recruiting employees, never forget that underneath all the math and the MBA bullshit talk, we are all still emotionally driven human beings. We want to attach ourselves to narratives. We don’t act because of equations. We follow our beliefs. We get behind leaders who stir our feelings. In the early days of your venture, if you find someone diving too deep into the numbers, that means they are struggling to find a reason to deeply care about you." -Tim Ferriss
"It’s impossible to be angry and grateful simultaneously. When you’re grateful, there is no fear. You can’t be fearful and grateful simultaneously." -Tim Ferriss
"If you need a kick in the ass, consider using accountability partners or betting through a service like Coach.me or Stickk.com." -Tim Ferriss
"Yes, I know we’re all very busy, but what, exactly, is getting done? Are all those people running late for meetings and yelling on their cell phones stopping the spread of malaria or developing feasible alternatives to fossil fuels or making anything beautiful?" -Tim Ferriss
"I aspire to only work with people who I can work with forever, to invest my time in activities that are a joy unto themselves, and to focus on the extremely long term." -Tim Ferriss
"sisu'—the mental strength to continue to try even after you feel you’ve reached the limits of your abilities." -Tim Ferriss
"The quality of your life is the quality of your questions." -Tim Ferriss
"I’m old-fashioned. Where I come from, people like to succeed. . . . When I was a founder, when I first started out, we didn’t have the word ‘pivot.’ We didn’t have a fancy word for it. We just called it a fuck-up. 'We do see companies that, literally, every time we meet them, they’ve pivoted. Every time, they’re off to something new, and it’s like watching a rabbit go through a maze or something. They’re never going to converge on anything because they’re never going to put the time into actually figuring it out and getting it right.' (See Peter Thiel’s thoughts on failure on page 233.)" -Tim Ferriss
"Pero la gente que tiene muchas ideas buenas, si te dice la verdad, te contará que tiene incluso más ideas malas." -Tim Ferriss
"The Silver Spoon, the best-selling Italian cookbook of the last 50 years. To" -Tim Ferriss
"What we fear doing most is usually what we most need to do. As I have heard said, a person’s success in life can usually be measured by the number of uncomfortable conversations he or she is willing to have." -Tim Ferriss
"Thoreau writes, ‘The really efficient laborer will be found not to crowd his day with work, but will saunter to his task surrounded by a wide halo of ease and leisure. There will be a wide margin for relaxation to his day. He is only earnest to secure the kernels of time, and does not exaggerate the value of the husk.’ Think of what a beautiful metaphor this is for not mistaking the husk—the outer accoutrements of productivity like busyness, or a full calendar, or a clever auto-responder—not mistaking those for the kernel, the core and substance of the actual work produced. And he then says, ‘Those who work much, do not work hard.’ I love that." -Tim Ferriss
"¿Qué coste tiene cada uno de ellos para ti y para la gente que te importa en el momento presente? Míralo, óyelo, siéntelo." -Tim Ferriss
"Cus D’Amato, Mike Tyson’s legendary first trainer, famously said: 'Everyone has a plan until they get punched in the face." -Tim Ferriss
"My definition of ‘love’ is being willing to die for someone who you yourself want to kill. That, in my experience, is kind of the deal." -Tim Ferriss
"The important thing is to learn from each failure and try not to repeat it." -Tim Ferriss
"By focusing inward on yourself as a writer instead of outward on what you think readers will want to read, you’ll end up creating the best and most original work, and that one-in-a-thousand person who happens to love it will end up finding their way to you." -Tim Ferriss
"Eso es lo primero que debes hacer: determinar qué te toca hacer en este planeta, por qué estás aquí, y qué te despierta por las mañanas»." -Tim Ferriss
"No soy un puesto de peaje por el que tenga que pasar nada. Soy más como un policía que vigila por fuera de la carretera y que puede intervenir si se le necesita." -Tim Ferriss
"camino no se acaba nunca y que nadie ha conseguido culminarlo.»" -Tim Ferriss
"The more absurd, the more 'impossible' the question, the more profound the answers. Take, for instance, a question that serial billionaire Peter Thiel likes to ask himself and others: 'If you have a 10-year plan of how to get [somewhere], you should ask: Why can’t you do this in 6 months?' For purposes of illustration here, I might reword that to: 'What might you do to accomplish your 10-year goals in the next 6 months, if you had a gun against your head?' Now, let’s pause. Do I expect you to take 10 seconds to ponder this and then magically accomplish 10 years’ worth of dreams in the next few months? No, I don’t. But I do expect that the question will productively break your mind, like a butterfly shattering a chrysalis to emerge with new capabilities. The 'normal' systems you have in place, the social rules you’ve forced upon yourself, the standard frameworks—they don’t work when answering a question like this. You are forced to shed artificial constraints, like shedding a skin, to realize that you had the ability to renegotiate your reality all along. It just takes practice." -Tim Ferriss
"Asymmetrical risks and rewards: 'Every single one of them is obsessed with asymmetrical risk and reward. . . . It simply means they’re looking to use the least amount of risk to get the max amount of upside, and that’s what they live for. . . . [They don’t believe they] have to take huge risks for huge rewards. Say, ‘How do I get no risk and get huge rewards?’ and because you ask a question continuously and you believe [there’s an] answer, you get it." -Tim Ferriss
"my advice to my 30-year-old self is, don’t be a donkey. You can do everything you want to do. You just need foresight and patience." -Tim Ferriss
"NightHawk (ARP/ND de suplantación de identidad y rastreo de contraseñas)," -Tim Ferriss
"expulsamos a un par de jefes de cada equipo SEAL por su incapacidad para mandar." -Tim Ferriss
"German poet Johann Wolfgang Goethe had the right perspective: 'Mysteries are not necessarily miracles.' To do the impossible (sail around the world, break the four-minute mile, reach the moon), you need to ignore the popular." -Tim Ferriss
"if the woman can refrain from trying to change or mother her partner, she has a greater opportunity of putting herself in a position where the guy will respect her. A man needs support. I mean, I love you guys and you’re all strong, but you’re very fragile, and you need to be supported and [for us to] help you fully realize your voice, whatever that is." -Tim Ferriss
"In my practice, when I see clients for the first time, I see them as the end product—the way they will be in the future. They are all beautiful. What stands between who they are and who they want to be is their willingness to change strong habits, belief systems, and the gracefulness to embrace a new way of living. I aid them in their pursuit of change and liberation from unwanted habits." -Tim Ferriss
"Chris is the principal co-author of the genre-redefining six-volume work Modernist Cuisine." -Tim Ferriss
"Often when you think you’re at the end of something, you’re at the beginning of something else.' –Fred Rogers" -Tim Ferriss
"Porque tienes que ser humilde, y tienes que dejarte enseñar…" -Tim Ferriss
"Many use the ChiliPad device for cooling at bedtime" -Tim Ferriss
"Atlas Shrugged by Ayn Rand." -Tim Ferriss
"No Country for Old Men" -Tim Ferriss
"Mindfulness: guía práctica para encontrar la paz en un mundo frenético (Paidós, 2013), de Mark Williams" -Tim Ferriss
"If you can’t come up with 10 ideas, come up with 20 ideas. . . . You are putting too much pressure on yourself. Perfectionism is the ENEMY of the idea muscle . . . it’s your brain trying to protect you from harm, from coming up with an idea that is embarrassing and stupid and could cause you to suffer pain. The way you shut [this] off is by forcing [the brain] to come up with bad ideas." -Tim Ferriss
"What we fear doing most is usually what we most need to do. As I" -Tim Ferriss
"That’s the underlying philosophy of Aoki Bootcamp:" -Tim Ferriss
"I must be eager to use the product myself. This rules out many great companies, but I want a verified market I understand." -Tim Ferriss
"Make the time to do the things you want to do and then do them." -Tim Ferriss
"The more we associate experience with cash value, the more we think that money is what we need to live. And the more we associate money with life, the more we convince ourselves that we’re too poor to buy our freedom." -Tim Ferriss
"The Strategy of Conflict by Thomas C. Schelling The Science of Words by George A. Miller Retreat from Doomsday by John Mueller The Nurture Assumption by Judith Rich Harris The Evolution of Human Sexuality by Donald Symons Knowledge and Decisions by Thomas Sowell Clear and Simple as the Truth by Francis Noël-Thomas and Mark Turner" -Tim Ferriss
"Whenever you find yourself on the side of the majority, it’s time to pause and reflect.' —Mark Twain. This" -Tim Ferriss
"If you simply wait for blood in the streets, for when true believers are the only ones left, you can ensure that intrinsically driven founders are at least half of your meetings. It might be morbid, but it’s practical. If you’re investing for life, don’t rush.Timing often overrides technique." -Tim Ferriss
"Si piensas en algo más de tres veces por semana, tienes que escribir sobre eso'»." -Tim Ferriss
"Anyone who lives within their means suffers from a lack of imagination. —OSCAR WILDE, Irish dramatist and novelist" -Tim Ferriss
"Qué es lo peor que podría suceder si dejara de actuar como inversor ángel (business angel) durante un mínimo de seis a doce meses?" -Tim Ferriss
"you should have a running list of three people that you’re always watching: someone senior to you that you want to emulate, a peer who you think is better at the job than you are and who you respect, and someone subordinate who’s doing the job you did—one, two, or three years ago—better than you did it. If you just have those three individuals that you’re constantly measuring yourself off of, and you’re constantly learning from them, you’re going to be exponentially better than you are." -Tim Ferriss
"Productivity is for robots. What humans are going to be really good at is asking questions, being creative, and experiences." -Tim Ferriss
"The Book of Strange New Things by Michel Faber." -Tim Ferriss
"Recomiendo encarecidamente la lectura de «The CEO of Automattic on Holding ‘Auditions’ to Build a Strong Team» del número de abril de 2014 de la revista Harvard Business Review (lo encontrarás en hbr.org)." -Tim Ferriss
"THE DANGER OF BIG QUESTIONS Most of the time, 'What should I do with my life?' is a terrible question. 'What should I do with this tennis serve?' 'What should I do with this line at Starbucks?' 'What should I do with this traffic jam?' 'How should I respond to the anger I feel welling up in my chest?' These are better questions. Excellence is the next five minutes, improvement is the next five minutes, happiness is the next five minutes." -Tim Ferriss
"Cuanto más asociamos la experiencia con el valor del dinero, más creemos que el dinero es lo que necesitamos para vivir." -Tim Ferriss
"Fasting essentially slows (sometimes stops) rapidly dividing cells and triggers an ‘energetic crisis’ that makes cancer cells selectively vulnerable to chemo and radiation.' There" -Tim Ferriss
"There’s no difference between a pessimist who says, 'Oh, it’s hopeless, so don’t bother doing anything,' and an optimist who says, 'Don’t bother doing anything, it’s going to turn out fine anyway." -Tim Ferriss
"great creative work isn’t possible if you’re trying to piece together 30 minutes here and 45 minutes there. Large, uninterrupted blocks of time—3 to 5 hours minimum—create the space needed to find and connect the dots. And one block per week isn’t enough. There has to be enough slack in the system for multi-day, CPU-intensive synthesis." -Tim Ferriss
"I do what I always do: find a personal e-mail if possible, often through their little-known personal blogs, send a two- to three-paragraph e-mail which explains that I am familiar with their work, and ask one simple-to-answer but thought-provoking question in that e-mail related to their work or life philosophies. The goal is to start a dialogue so they take the time to answer future e-mails—not to ask for help. That can only come after at least three or four genuine e-mail exchanges." -Tim Ferriss
"I don’t like the word ‘education’ because it is such an extraordinary abstraction. I’m very much in favor of learning. I’m much more skeptical of credentialing or the abstraction called ‘education.’ So" -Tim Ferriss
"people knowing you’re listening—valuing them, collectively—is more important than responding to everyone." -Tim Ferriss
"That Motel Weekend by James Donner, The Srimad Devi Bhagavatam, and The Metamorphosis by Franz Kafka." -Tim Ferriss
"I ask them, ‘How will you disrupt yourself, and how are you trying to disrupt yourself? If you’re not, you’re in for a real surprise.’ Find the smartest 20-somethings in your company. I don’t care if they’re in the mail room or where they are. Give them permission to figure out how they would take down your company.' PETER" -Tim Ferriss
"Be focused on work or focused on something else, never in-between." -Tim Ferriss
"«No estoy programado para la felicidad», la cual reemplacé por: «La felicidad es mi estado natural»." -Tim Ferriss
"What is the ultimate quantification of success? For me, it’s not how much time you spend doing what you love. It’s how little time you spend doing what you hate. And this woman spent all day, every day doing what she loved." -Tim Ferriss
"If you set your goals ridiculously high and it’s a failure, you will fail above everyone else’s success.' —James Cameron 'If you find yourself in a fair fight, you didn’t plan your mission properly.' —Colonel David Hackworth" -Tim Ferriss
"CreativeLive is an online learning platform that broadcasts live, high-definition classes to more than 2 million students in 200 countries. All classes are free to watch live and can be purchased for later viewing." -Tim Ferriss
"if you have a very clear vision of where you want to go, then the rest of it is much easier." -Tim Ferriss
"Be bold and don't worry about what people think. They don’t do it that often anyway." -Tim Ferriss
"How might you put this into practice? Here are a few things I’ve done repeatedly for 3 to 14 days at a time to simulate losing all my money: Sleeping in a sleeping bag, whether on my living room floor or outside Wearing cheap white shirts and a single pair of jeans for the entire 3 to 14 days Using CouchSurfing.com or a similar service to live in hosts’ homes for free, even if in your own city Eating only A) instant oatmeal and/or B) rice and beans Drinking only water and cheap instant coffee or tea Cooking everything using a Kelly Kettle. This is a camping device that can generate heat from nearly anything" -Tim Ferriss
"You can’t blame your boss for not giving you the support you need. Plenty of people will say, ‘It’s my boss’s fault.’ No, it’s actually your fault because you haven’t educated him, you haven’t influenced him, you haven’t explained to him in a manner he understands why you need this support that you need. That’s extreme ownership. Own it all.' A Good Reason to Be an Early Riser 'I’m up and getting after it by 4: 45. I like to have that psychological win over the enemy. For me, when I wake up in the morning—and I don’t know why—I’m thinking about the enemy and what they’re doing. I know I’m not on active duty anymore, but it’s still in my head: that there’s a guy in a cave somewhere, he’s rocking back and forth, and he’s got a machine gun in one hand and a grenade in the other. He’s waiting for me, and we’re going to meet. When I wake up in the morning, I’m thinking to myself: What can I do to be ready for that moment, which is coming? That propels me out of bed.' TF: This story has compelled so many listeners to start waking early that there is a #0445club hashtag on Twitter, featuring pictures of wristwatches. It’s still going strong more than a year after the podcast." -Tim Ferriss
"whatever’s necessary. But don’t cheat.' TIM: 'But how do you manage the fine line between insisting on high standards and simply being an overbearing asshole?' [Chris now manages a company of 50+ employees.] CHRIS: 'The first thing is, on a good day, I will try to step back and say, ‘What context does this person even have, and have I provided appropriate context?’ . . . Given all the context they had, maybe I would’ve made the same decision, or I could imagine somebody else making the same decision. So increasingly, I try to think about: ‘What context and visibility do I have and what do they have? Am I basically being unfair because I’m operating from a greater set of information?" -Tim Ferriss
"«La nuestra es una cultura en la que quemamos el talento para sobrevivir durmiendo muy poco," -Tim Ferriss
"If you spend 2 hours a day without an electronic device, looking your kid in the eye, talking to them and solving interesting problems, you will raise a different kid than someone who doesn’t do that." -Tim Ferriss
"«No soy la más fuerte. No soy la más rápida. Pero soy muy buena sufriendo.»" -Tim Ferriss
"Everyone is interested in what’s new. Few people are interested in what’s better." -Tim Ferriss
"What did I key into the sat-nav system of my life [where do I want to be 10, 20 years from now]? What is my ultimate destination? You have to look at that every time you feel overwhelmed. Remembering that destination will help you make the single most important distinction in life, which is to distinguish between an opportunity to be seized and a temptation to be resisted." -Tim Ferriss
"Becoming a member of the NR is not just about working smarter. It’s about building a system to replace yourself. This is the first exercise." -Tim Ferriss
"#11—What if I could only subtract to solve problems? From 2008 to 2009, I began to ask myself, 'What if I could only subtract to solve problems?' when advising startups. Instead of answering, 'What should we do?' I tried first to hone in on answering, 'What should we simplify?' For instance, I always wanted to tighten the conversion fishing net (the percentage of visitors who sign up or buy) before driving a ton of traffic to one of my portfolio companies. One of the first dozen startups I worked with was named Gyminee. It was rebranded Daily Burn, and at the time, they didn’t have enough manpower to do a complete redesign of the site. Adding new elements would’ve been time-consuming, but removing them wasn’t. As a test, we eliminated roughly 70% of the 'above the fold' clickable elements on their homepage, focusing on the single most valuable click. Conversions immediately improved 21.1%. That quick-and-dirty test informed later decisions for much more expensive development. The founders, Andy Smith and Stephen Blankenship, made a lot of great decisions, and the company was acquired by IAC in 2010. I’ve since applied this 'What if I could only subtract . . . ?' to my life in many areas, and I sometimes rephrase it as 'What should I put on my not-to-do list?" -Tim Ferriss
"The reasonable man adapts himself to the world; the unreasonable one persists in trying to adapt the world to himself. Therefore all progress depends on the unreasonable man. —GEORGE BERNARD SHAW," -Tim Ferriss
"Ben Franklin’s famous quote: 'Early to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy, and wise." -Tim Ferriss
"Porque un sueño es algo con lo que fantaseas y que probablemente nunca llegará a ocurrir. Una meta es algo que planificas, en lo que trabajas y que alcanzas." -Tim Ferriss
"That is the number-one thing you need to do: Find out what you need to be doing on this planet, why you were put here, and what wakes you up in the mornings." -Tim Ferriss
"Discipline equals freedom.' Everyone wants freedom. We want to be physically free and mentally free. We want to be financially free and we want more free time. But where does that freedom come from? How do we get it? The answer is the opposite of freedom. The answer is discipline. You want more free time? Follow a more disciplined time-management system. You want financial freedom? Implement long-term financial discipline in your life. Do you want to be physically free to move how you want, and to be free from many health issues caused by poor lifestyle choices? Then you have to have the discipline to eat healthy food and consistently work out. We all want freedom. Discipline is the only way to get it." -Tim Ferriss
"You have a lot less time than you think, and you’re not spending your time the way you think you are." -Tim Ferriss
"Jeśli ktoś nie sprawia, że stajesz się lepszy, tak naprawdę sprawia, że stajesz się gorszy." -Tim Ferriss
"La magia es que poca gente sabe dibujar bien y escribir chistes." -Tim Ferriss
"Tell people what you want, not what you don’t want, and keep it simple." -Tim Ferriss
"Why aim for a mere $100K when I can try to build a billion-dollar business?' Two reasons: 1) Aiming for the latter from the outset often leads to neglecting the high-touch 1,000 true fans who act as your most powerful unpaid marketing force for 'crossing the chasm' into the mainstream. If you don’t build that initial army, you’re likely to fail. 2) Do you really want to build and manage a big company? For most people, it’s not a fun experience; it’s an all-consuming taskmaster. There are certainly ace CEOs who thread the needle and enjoy this roller coaster, but they are outliers. Read Small Giants by Bo Burlingham for some fantastic examples of companies that choose to be the best rather than the biggest." -Tim Ferriss
"Estar ocupado suele ser un pretexto para evitar unas pocas acciones incómodas que son las que de verdad importan." -Tim Ferriss
"Fight for the Future (fightforthefuture.org) is dedicated to protecting and expanding the Internet’s transformative power in our lives by creating civic campaigns that are engaging for millions of people." -Tim Ferriss
"lack of time is actually lack of priorities." -Tim Ferriss
"彼得：「在孩子的記憶中，我是最棒的爸爸嗎？不是那種他要什麼就給他什麼的最棒的爸爸，而是他什麼都願意跟我說，我有做到這一點嗎？不管發生什麼突發狀況，他都會打電話給我嗎？當他需要建議時，是不是第一個就想到我？另一方面，不管我決定做什麼，律師也好，醫師也好，股票經紀人也好，我能不能兼顧工作和父親這個身份，兩者都發揮絕佳表現？對我來說，這才是成功。'Excerpt From: 提摩西．費里斯（Timothy Ferriss）. '人生勝利聖經.' Apple Books." -Tim Ferriss
"many forms of meditation in the world. Like when I study and work really hard, where it takes the ultimate amount of concentration, I can only do it for 45 minutes, maybe an hour. 'I also figured out that I could use my workouts as a form of meditation because I concentrate so much on the muscle, I have my mind inside the" -Tim Ferriss
"¿Cuál es el peor consejo que oyes dar a menudo?" -Tim Ferriss
"I don’t create art to get high-dollar projects, I do high-dollar projects so I can create more art." -Tim Ferriss
"Vinagre de manzana con miel: Mi pócima tranquilizante de referencia es sencilla: dos cucharadas soperas de vinagre de manzana (yo uso la marca Bragg) y una cucharada de miel, disueltos en una taza de agua caliente. Esto me lo enseñó el gran Seth Roberts." -Tim Ferriss
"You can’t reason someone out of something they didn’t reason themselves into." -Tim Ferriss
"Just listening to music for its own sake, not listening to the people around you and not filtered through what you know about the musician’s personal life." -Tim Ferriss
"What I prefer over trends is a sense of mission. That you are working on a unique problem that people are not solving elsewhere." -Tim Ferriss
"Make other people look good and you will do well. Keep your head down, they say, and serve your boss. Naturally, this is not what the kid who was chosen over all the other kids for the position wants to hear. It’s not what a Harvard grad expects—after all, they got that degree precisely to avoid this supposed indignity. Let’s flip it around so it doesn’t seem so demeaning: It’s not about kissing ass. It’s not about making someone look good. It’s about providing the support so that others can be good. The better wording for the advice is this: Find canvases for other people to paint on. Be an anteambulo. Clear the path for the people above you and you will eventually create a path for yourself." -Tim Ferriss
"Donde no hay mujeres no hay buenos modales', o 'En la audacia hay genio, fuerza y magia'. Aunque no" -Tim Ferriss
"Money in a business is like gas in your car. You need to pay attention so you don’t end up on the side of the road. But your trip is not a tour of gas stations." -Tim Ferriss
"Clear the path for the people above you and you will eventually create a path for yourself." -Tim Ferriss
"If you hit two crappy pages, even if you never use them, you can feel 'successful' for the day. Sometimes you barely eke out two pages, and they are truly terrible. But at least 50% of the time, you’ll produce perhaps 5, 10, or even—on the rare miracle day—20 pages. Draft ugly and edit pretty." -Tim Ferriss
"Be open to whatever comes next.'—John Cage" -Tim Ferriss
"If I accept you as you are, I make you worse; however, if I treat you as though you are what you are capable of becoming I help you become that.'—Johann Wolfgang von Goethe" -Tim Ferriss
"something like, 'You’re totally right. I never thought about that." -Tim Ferriss
"After 35 years old, no matter what we do, we’ll get worse. Deterioration is automatic in the process of aging," -Tim Ferriss
"I can’t give you a surefire formula for success, but I can give you a formula for failure: try to please everybody all the time. —HERBERT BAYARD SWOPE," -Tim Ferriss
"Amelia loves doing training runs in the rain and cold, as she knows her competition is probably opting out. This is an example of 'rehearsing the worst-case scenario' to become more resilient" -Tim Ferriss
"Fermented cod liver oil + vitamin-rich butter fat—2 capsules upon waking and before bed Vitamin D3—3,000–5,000 IU upon waking and before bed (6,000–10,000 IU per day), until you reach blood levels of 55 ng/mL. Short ice baths and/or cold showers—10 minutes each, upon waking and right before bed Brazil nuts—3 nuts upon waking, 3 nuts before bed (see important footnote).15" -Tim Ferriss
"The core of it was to be your unapologetically weird self. I think authenticity is one of the most lacking things out there these days." -Tim Ferriss
"Nestled in the tropics of the Coral Sea, New Caledonia was a French territory and where Julie and Marc had just sold the sailboat that took them 15,000 miles around the world. Of course, recouping their initial investment had been part of the plan. All said and done, their 15-month exploration of the globe, from the gondola-rich waterways of Venice to the tribal shores of Polynesia, had cost between $18,000 and $19,000. Less than rent and baguettes in Paris." -Tim Ferriss
"Franklin would never have been published if he’d prioritized credit over creative expression—" -Tim Ferriss
"I’m old-fashioned. Where I come from, people like to succeed. . . . When I was a founder, when I first started out, we didn’t have the word ‘pivot.’ We didn’t have a fancy word for it. We just called it a fuck-up." -Tim Ferriss
"Si la dieta cetogénica te parece para lunáticos, el empleo de cetonas exógenas sólo requiere mezclar una cucharada de polvo con agua y beber." -Tim Ferriss
"the best thing to do is give people questions they’re not expecting." -Tim Ferriss
"Life is not waiting for the storm to pass, it’s learning how to dance in the rain" -Tim Ferriss
"Ricardo Semler, CEO and majority owner of the Brazil-based Semco Partners, practices asking 'Why?' three times. This is true when questioning his own motives, or when tackling big projects. The rationale is identical to Derek’s." -Tim Ferriss
"One of the most common Kindle highlights from The 4-Hour Workweek complements this: 'A person’s success in life can usually be measured by the number of uncomfortable conversations he or she is willing to have." -Tim Ferriss
"Meridiano de sangre (Random House, 2016) [de Cormac McCarthy].»" -Tim Ferriss
"La esencia que quiero transmitirte es que sólo tienes los derechos por los que luchas." -Tim Ferriss
"By working faithfully eight hours a day, you may eventually get to be a boss and work twelve hours a day." -Tim Ferriss
"an>" -Tim Ferriss
"You are more powerful than you think you are. Act accordingly." -Tim Ferriss
"«Creo que el fracaso está muy sobrevalorado. La mayoría de los negocios fracasa por más de una razón. Así que, cuando un negocio fracasa, no sueles aprender nada en absoluto," -Tim Ferriss
"Somewhere between college graduation and your second job, a chorus enters your internal dialogue: Be realistic and stop pretending. Life isn’t like the movies." -Tim Ferriss
"«Lo primero que se me viene a la cabeza es la 'humildad'." -Tim Ferriss
"What you seek is seeking you.' —RUMI" -Tim Ferriss
"«¿En qué es mejor este producto nuevo al de la competencia?», sino «¿primero en qué?». En otras palabras: «¿En qué categoría es primero este producto?»." -Tim Ferriss
"Ayaan Hirsi Ali" -Tim Ferriss
"Once your life shifts from pitching outbound to defending against inbound, however, you have to ruthlessly say 'no' as your default. Instead of throwing spears, you’re holding the shield." -Tim Ferriss
"Three to five billion new consumers are coming online in the next 6 years. Holy cow, that’s extraordinary. What do they need?" -Tim Ferriss
"Cynicism is a disease that robs people of the gift of life." -Tim Ferriss
"It’s lonely at the top. Ninety-nine percent of people in the world are convinced they are incapable of achieving great things, so they aim for the mediocre. The level of competition is thus fiercest for 'realistic' goals, paradoxically making them the most time- and energy-consuming. It is easier to raise $1,000,000 than it is $100,000. It is easier to pick up the one perfect 10 in the bar than the five 8s." -Tim Ferriss
"Philosophy (Bertrand Russell), Reasons and Persons (Derek Parfit), The Last Word; Mortal Questions (Thomas Nagel), Our Final Invention (James Barrat), Superintelligence: Paths, Dangers, Strategies (Nick Bostrom), Humiliation; The Anatomy of Disgust (William Ian Miller), The Flight" -Tim Ferriss
"Last, play with foodpairing.be, which is based on the Volatile Compounds in Food (VCF) database. The objective is to start thinking about how to mix and match foods based on similar characteristics." -Tim Ferriss
"There are only four stories: a love story between two people, a love story between three people, the struggle for power, and the journey. Every single book that is in the bookstore deals with these four archetypes, these four themes." -Tim Ferriss
"create yourself, instead of seeking to discover yourself." -Tim Ferriss
"Be the silence that listens.'–Tara Brach Teacher of meditation and emotional healing, author of Radical Acceptance" -Tim Ferriss
"lo peor que puede pasar es que acabe llevando una mochila y un saco de dormir" -Tim Ferriss
"Out on the edge you see all kinds of things you can’t see from the center. Big, undreamed-of things—the people on the edge see them first.' —Kurt Vonnegut 'Routine, in an intelligent man, is a sign of ambition.' —W.H. Auden" -Tim Ferriss
"triunfas porque localizas tus capacidades únicas y te concentras en desarrollar rutinas en torno a ellas." -Tim Ferriss
"If you could have a gigantic billboard anywhere with anything on it, what would it say and why? A single bottom line of profit motive no longer serves our interdependent world. We must move from a focus on shareholders to one on stakeholders, take a long-term view, and measure what matters, not just what we can count. That’s a lot easier to say than to do. So we created a manifesto at Acumen, a moral compass to guide our decisions and actions. It is an aspirational document, one I think about daily, though I don’t always live up to it. It is long for a billboard, but maybe if we put it in the right place and encouraged people to pause for just a moment, which in itself wouldn’t be so bad. Here it is: It starts by standing with the poor, listening to voices unheard, and recognizing potential where others see despair. It demands investing as a means, not an end, daring to go where markets have failed and aid has fallen short. It makes capital work for us, not control us. It thrives on moral imagination: the humility to see the world as it is, and the audacity to imagine the world as it could be. It’s having the ambition to learn at the edge, the wisdom to admit failure, and the courage to start again. It requires patience and kindness, resilience and grit: a hard-edged hope. It’s leadership that rejects complacency, breaks through bureaucracy, and challenges corruption. Doing what’s right, not what’s easy. It’s the radical idea of creating hope in a cynical world. Changing the way the world tackles poverty and building a world based on dignity. Or else, I might borrow Rilke’s gorgeous mantra to 'Live the Questions,' which is a simple reminder to have the moral courage to live in the gray, sit with uncertainty but not in a passive way. Live the questions so that, one day, you will live yourself into the answers. . . . What advice would you give to a smart, driven college student about to enter the 'real world'? Don’t worry all that much about your first job. Just start, and let the work teach you. With every step, you will discover more about who you want to be and what you want to do. If you wait for the perfect and keep all of your options open, you might end up with nothing but options. So start." -Tim Ferriss
"#1—It doesn’t matter how many people don’t get it. What matters is how many people do." -Tim Ferriss
"PICK THE RIGHT AUDIENCE TO SUCK IN FRONT OF 'If anybody is going to go out and pitch investors, my advice is to make your first 10 meetings with investors that you don’t really want funding from, because you’re probably going to suck in the beginning. I sucked for a really long time.' TF:" -Tim Ferriss
"Así que si estás pensando en hacer algo con tu vida, si has planificado cómo llegar hasta ahí en diez años, deberías preguntarte por qué no puedes hacerlo en seis meses." -Tim Ferriss
"On the Advantage of Cultivating Beginner’s Mind 'Experience often deeply embeds the assumptions that need to be questioned in the first place. When you have a lot of experience with something, you don’t notice the things that are new about it. You don’t notice the idiosyncrasies that need to be tweaked. You don’t notice where the gaps are, what’s missing, or what’s not really working." -Tim Ferriss
"7. «Si quieres mejorar, debe satisfacerte que te consideren necio y estúpido.» — Epicteto" -Tim Ferriss
"Lo que prefiero, en lugar de las tendencias, es pensar que tengo encomendada una misión. Que trabajo en un problema único que la gente no está resolviendo en ningún otro lugar." -Tim Ferriss
"Por cada dólar de ingreso que generas, ¿puedes inducir un coste de cinco a diez dólares para los competidores? Si es así, invierte." -Tim Ferriss
"RumbleRoller: Think foam roller meets monster-truck tire. Foam rollers have historically done very little for me, but this torture device had an immediate positive impact on my recovery. (It also helps you sleep if used before bed.) Warning: Start slow. I tried to copy Amelia and did 20-plus minutes my first session. The next day, I felt like I’d been put in a sleeping bag and swung against a tree for a few hours." -Tim Ferriss
"Hacking Blood Sugar Several months ago, I received a text from Kevin stating 'I found the grail' with a screenshot of his Dexcom continuous glucose monitor showing his levels at 79mg/dL (which is healthily low) after consuming two beers, a pork chop with honey glaze, 4 slices of corn bread with honey and butter, and a side order of potato gnocchi. What was the 'grail'? 25 mg of acarbose (¼ pill) with food. He learned this trick from Peter Attia (page 59), who I introduced him to." -Tim Ferriss
"»¿Cómo se mide el éxito en última instancia? Para mí no consiste en medir el mucho tiempo que dedicas a hacer lo que te gusta. Sino en medir el poco tiempo que pasas haciendo lo que odias. Y esta mujer se pasaba todo el día y todos los días haciendo lo que más le gustaba.»" -Tim Ferriss
"This book aims to systematically overcome all of the above failure points, step-by-step." -Tim Ferriss
"Although there is disagreement on the exact number of taste qualities, everyone acknowledges that the number is small. The usual list includes sweet, sour, bitter, salty, and umami (Physiology and Behavior, 1991). So," -Tim Ferriss
"Whitney and I both love Neil Gaiman’s 'Make Good Art' commencement speech, which he gave at Philadelphia’s University of the Arts. I’ve watched the video dozens of times on YouTube during rough periods. Our mutual favorite portion is 'The moment that you feel that, just possibly, you’re walking down the street naked, exposing too much of your heart and your mind and what exists on the inside, showing too much of yourself. That’s the moment you may be starting to get it right.' And, yes, I know I’ve mentioned this before. It bears repeating." -Tim Ferriss
"What are some of the choices you’ve made that made you who you are?" -Tim Ferriss
"Our life is frittered away by detail. . . . Simplify, simplify. . . . A man is rich in proportion to the number of things which he can afford to let alone.' —Henry David Thoreau, Walden" -Tim Ferriss
"Me obligo a mí mismo a dejar de comparar lo que aprendo con el pasado. Si sólo te fijas en los patrones del pasado, no llegarás lejos.»" -Tim Ferriss
"Peter has a set of rules that guide his life. His 28 Peter’s Laws have been collected over decades. Here are some of my favorites: Law 2: When given a choice . . . take both. Law 3: Multiple projects lead to multiple successes. Law 6: When forced to compromise, ask for more. Law 7: If you can’t win, change the rules. Law 8: If you can’t change the rules, then ignore them. Law 11: 'No' simply means begin again at one level higher. Law 13: When in doubt: THINK. Law 16: The faster you move, the slower time passes, the longer you live. Law 17: The best way to predict the future is to create it yourself. (adopted from Alan Kay) Law 19: You get what you incentivize. Law 22: The day before something is a breakthrough, it’s a crazy idea. Law 26: If you can’t measure it, you can’t improve it." -Tim Ferriss
"El artículo de David Brooks titulado «The Moral Bucket List». La" -Tim Ferriss
"The most important actions are never comfortable. To have an uncommon lifestyle, you need to develop the uncommon habit of making decisions, both for yourself and for others." -Tim Ferriss
"principio sencillo: Si no puedes ser el primero en una categoría, crea una nueva en la que puedas ser el primero." -Tim Ferriss
"In this way, quitting should never be seen as the end of something grudging and unpleasant. Rather, it’s a vital step in beginning something new and wonderful." -Tim Ferriss
"When you stop caring about being right in the eyes of everyone—versus being right in your own eyes and the eyes of those who matter to you—it’s amazing how little you care to waste energy trying to convince people of your view." -Tim Ferriss
"FollowUp.cc: For automating email follow-ups and reminders. I use a close cousin called Nudgemail," -Tim Ferriss
"y también para saber a dónde se está conectando." -Tim Ferriss
"Most 'superheroes' are nothing of the sort. They’re weird, neurotic creatures who do big things DESPITE lots of self-defeating habits and self-talk." -Tim Ferriss
"* If an introverted hospice patient were to say, 'Give me one to three things that I can watch, do, absorb, look at, etc., without human interaction,' what would your answer be? 'I guess I’d put a picture book of Mark Rothko paintings in front of them. I would put probably any music by Beethoven into their ears. And I probably would reserve that third thing for staring into space." -Tim Ferriss
"find your passions, redefine your dreams, and revive hobbies" -Tim Ferriss
"Effectiveness is doing the things that get you closer to your goals. Efficiency is performing a given task (whether important or not) in the most economical manner possible. Being efficient without regard to effectiveness is the default mode of the universe." -Tim Ferriss
"currency of the New Rich: time and mobility. This is an art and a science we will refer to as Lifestyle Design (LD)." -Tim Ferriss
"Learn to be difficult when it counts. In school as in life, having a reputation for being assertive will help you receive preferential treatment without having to beg or fight for it every time. Think back to your days on the playground. There was always a big bully and countless victims, but there was also that one small kid who fought like hell, thrashing and swinging for the fences. He or she might not have won, but after one or two exhausting exchanges, the bully chose not to bother him or her. It was easier to find someone else. Be that kid." -Tim Ferriss
"When you feel overwhelmed or unfocused, what do you do? What questions do you ask yourself? Always these questions: Sleep? Exercise? Healthy food? Am I resentful because I’m not setting or holding a boundary?" -Tim Ferriss
"People look for retreats for themselves, in the country, by the coast, or in the hills. There is nowhere that a person can find a more peaceful and trouble-free retreat than in his own mind. . . . So constantly give yourself this retreat, and renew yourself." -Tim Ferriss
"* Who do you think of when you hear the word 'successful'? 'The first people who come to mind are the real heroes of Task Unit Bruiser: Marc Lee, first SEAL killed in Iraq. Mike Monsoor, second SEAL killed in Iraq, posthumously awarded the Medal of Honor after he jumped on a grenade to save three of our other teammates. And finally, Ryan Job, one of my guys [who was] gravely wounded in Iraq, blinded in both eyes, but who made it back to America, was medically retired from the Navy, but who died from complications after the 22nd surgery to repair his wounds. Those guys, those men, those heroes, they lived, and fought, and died like warriors.' * Most-gifted or recommended books? 'I think there’s only one book that I’ve ever given and I’ve only given it to a couple people. That’s a book called About Face, by Colonel David H. Hackworth. The other book that I’ve read multiple times is Blood Meridian [by Cormac McCarthy].' * Favorite documentaries? 'Restrepo, which I’m sure you’ve seen. [TF: This was co-produced and co-filmed by Sebastian Junger, the next profile.] There is also an hour-long program called ‘A Chance in Hell: The Battle for Ramadi.’' Quick Takes * You walk into a bar. What do you order from the bartender? 'Water.' * What does your diet generally look like? 'It generally looks like steak.' * What kind of music does Jocko listen to? Two samples: For workouts—Black Flag, My War, side B In general—White Buffalo" -Tim Ferriss
"Kristen is the author of The Art of Fear: Why Conquering Fear Won’t Work and What to Do Instead." -Tim Ferriss
"Pero ¿qué fue lo que hizo Trump? En cuanto surgió aquella pregunta, casi interrumpió a la entrevistadora y le dijo: 'Sólo sobre Rosie O’Donnell'." -Tim Ferriss
"Life punishes the vague wish and rewards the specific ask. After all, conscious thinking is largely asking and answering questions in your own head. If you want confusion and heartache, ask vague questions. If you want uncommon clarity and results, ask uncommonly clear questions. Fortunately, this is a skill you can develop." -Tim Ferriss
"Jason Nemer (IG: @jasonnemer, acroyoga.org) is a cofounder of AcroYoga, which blends the spiritual wisdom of yoga, the loving-kindness of Thai massage, and the dynamic power of acrobatics. Jason was a two-time U.S. Junior National champion in sports acrobatics and represented the U.S. at the World Championships in Beijing in 1991. He performed acrobatics in the opening ceremonies of the 1996 Olympics. AcroYoga now has certified teachers in more than 60 countries and hundreds of thousands of practitioners." -Tim Ferriss
"SETH: 'For me, if you are feeling stuck, it’s all about The War of Art and The Art of Possibility. If you are feeling stressed, it’s about Pema. If you need to see a path that is more colored than the one you’re already on, which is pretty Technicolor, then it’s Zig. And if you just want to cry a little, it’s Just Kids, and then Debt is the one that is closest to reading a book. I don’t think many people should listen to Debt ten times." -Tim Ferriss
"You can tell the true character of a man by how his dog and his kids react to him." -Tim Ferriss
"Rhonda Perciavalle Patrick Tótem: Coywolf" -Tim Ferriss
"But I don’t just think gratitude. I let gratitude fill my soul, because when you’re grateful, we all know there’s no anger. It’s impossible to be angry and grateful simultaneously. When you’re grateful, there is no fear. You can’t be fearful and grateful simultaneously." -Tim Ferriss
"«Quienes tenemos la suerte de vivir en un mundo en el que tenemos lo suficiente y tenemos un techo y tenemos alimento, nos vemos atrapados en ese bucle de recordar los detalles equivocados." -Tim Ferriss
"GOOD QUESTION TO ASK YOURSELF WHEN TACKLING INCUMBENT COMPANIES (OR IDEAS) 'How is their bread buttered?' 'What is it that they can’t afford to say or think?" -Tim Ferriss
"MBA—$30K per year Commit to spending $2,500 per month on testing different 'muses' intended to be sources of automated income. See The 4-Hour Workweek or Google 'muse examples Ferriss' as a starting point." -Tim Ferriss
"Diversificación de riesgos: «Tienen" -Tim Ferriss
"* Favorite documentary Carl Sagan’s Cosmos series inspired Adam to become a scientist, which is true for many of the top-tier scientists I’ve met and interviewed. [TF: Neil deGrasse Tyson has a revised version of Cosmos that is also spectacular.] 'It was a really powerful, friendly way of being introduced to the complexities and wonders that were gripping to me as a kid. I watched it with my dad. It was great bonding for us. The way [Sagan] delivered it was just captivating, and it was really what sealed the deal for me that I wanted to be a scientist.' * Advice to your 30-year-old self? 'I would say to have no fear. I mean, you’ve got one chance here to do amazing things, and being afraid of being wrong or making a mistake or fumbling is just not how you do something of impact. You just have to be fearless.' As context, Adam said the following earlier in our conversation: 'I want to do fundamental breakthroughs, if possible. If you have that mindset, if that’s how you challenge yourself, that that’s what you want to do with your life, with your small amount of time that you have here to make a difference, then the only way to do it is to do the type of research that other people would think of as risky or even foolhardy. That’s just part of the game." -Tim Ferriss
"The realization that the best way to get things done is to let go. Here’s the thing. . . . It’s often the case that people want to help you or work with you. But they can’t if you insist on holding on to tight control. The more you let go, the more people will surprise you." -Tim Ferriss
"It’s so beautiful how life unfolds, if we lay it all on the line and keep our pores open." -Tim Ferriss
"finding a market before designing a product is smarter than the reverse." -Tim Ferriss
"Charles Schwab no abrió una agencia de valores mejor. Creó el primer agente de préstamos. Esto va en contra del pensamiento" -Tim Ferriss
"Aspirar a conseguir mil compradores es mucho más viable que un millón de seguidores." -Tim Ferriss
"Real work and real satisfaction come from the opposite of what the web provides. They come from going deep into something—the book you’re writing, the album, the movie—and staying there for a long, long time." -Tim Ferriss
"the best opportunities may not even catch your attention at first. More often than not, great opportunities look unattractive on the surface. What makes an opportunity great is upside. If the potential upside were explicitly clear, the opportunity would have already been taken." -Tim Ferriss
"Life will go faster than you know. It will be tempting to live a life that impresses others." -Tim Ferriss
"The worst that could happen wasn’t crashing and burning, it was accepting terminal boredom as a tolerable status quo. Remember—boredom is the enemy, not some abstract 'failure." -Tim Ferriss
"Reality is negotiable." -Tim Ferriss
"Most of your startups will fail, so the successes need to make up for losses." -Tim Ferriss
"«The Shortness of Life: Seneca on Busyness and the Art of Living Wide Rather Than Living Long.»" -Tim Ferriss
"The Act of Creation by Arthur Koestler," -Tim Ferriss
"If [more] information was the answer, then we’d all be billionaires with perfect abs." -Tim Ferriss
"The moment that you feel that, just possibly, you’re walking down the street naked, exposing too much of your heart and your mind and what exists on the inside, showing too much of yourself. That’s the moment you may be starting to get it right.' —Neil Gaiman, University of the Arts commencement speech" -Tim Ferriss
"no actuar es el mayor riesgo de todos." -Tim Ferriss
"If you only engage with people about problems, pretty soon, you’ll become the problem for them,' and I agree with that." -Tim Ferriss
"To be neither the boss nor the employee, but the owner. To own the trains and have someone else ensure they run on time." -Tim Ferriss
"At least three times per day at scheduled times, he had to ask himself the following question:Am I being productive or just active?Charney captured the essence of this with less-abstract wording:Am I inventing things to do to avoid the important?" -Tim Ferriss
"People say that what we’re all seeking is a meaning for life. I don’t think that’s what we’re really seeking. I think that what we’re seeking is an experience of being alive.'–Joseph Campbell American mythologist and writer, known for The Hero with a Thousand Faces" -Tim Ferriss
"no puedes cambiar las reglas, ignóralas." -Tim Ferriss
"Cincinnatus." -Tim Ferriss
"It’s always the hard part that creates value.'   'You are more powerful than you think you are. Act accordingly." -Tim Ferriss
"As Marcus Aurelius and Ryan Holiday (page 334) would say, 'The obstacle is the way.' This doesn’t mean seeing problems, accepting them, and leaving them to fester. Nor does it mean rationalizing problems into good things. To me, it means using pain to find clarity. If pain is examined and not ignored, it can show you what to excise from your life." -Tim Ferriss
"If I have nothing positive to say, I don’t say anything." -Tim Ferriss
"Es de lejos mucho más lucrativo y divertido aprovechar tus fortalezas en lugar de tratar de arreglar todos tus puntos débiles." -Tim Ferriss
"As to methods there may be a million and then some, but principles are few. The man who grasps principles can successfully select his own methods. The man who tries methods, ignoring principles, is sure to have trouble.' –Ralph Waldo Emerson American essayist, leader of the 19th-century transcendentalist movement" -Tim Ferriss
"Based on everything I’ve seen, a simple recipe can work: focus on what’s in front of you, design great days to create a great life, and try not to make the same mistake twice. That’s it." -Tim Ferriss
"Now I release an episode of the Waking Up podcast more or less every week." -Tim Ferriss
"Saying yes to too much 'cool' will bury you alive and render you a B-player, even if you have A-player skills. To develop your edge initially, you learn to set priorities; to maintain your edge, you need to defend against the priorities of others." -Tim Ferriss
"and" -Tim Ferriss
"¿Me recomiendas algún otro sitio de la ciudad que pueda ser un buen sitio de trabajo para mí? Estoy totalmente decidido a dedicarme a esto. Realmente quiero saber cómo es'." -Tim Ferriss
"«Invierte un poco más de tiempo en hacerlo un poco más humano o (dependiendo del negocio) un poco más divertido, un poco más diferente, o un poco más lo que sea. Valdrá la pena, y ése es mi estímulo.» (Véase el mejor" -Tim Ferriss
"Losing faith in my bosses and elders made me independent and an adult." -Tim Ferriss
"How has a failure, or apparent failure, set you up for later success? Do you have a 'favorite failure' of yours? Many, many moons ago, I used to be a corporate lawyer. I was an ambivalent corporate lawyer at best, and anyone could have told you that I was in the wrong profession, but still: I’d dedicated tons of time (three years of law school, one year of clerking for a federal judge, and six and a half years at a Wall Street firm, to be exact) and had lots of deep and treasured relationships with fellow attorneys. But the day came, when I was well along on partnership track, that the senior partner in my firm came to my office and told me that I wouldn’t be put up for partner on schedule. To this day, I don’t know whether he meant that I would never be put up for partner or just delayed for a good long while. All I know is that I embarrassingly burst into tears right in front of him—and then asked for a leave of absence. I left work that very afternoon and bicycled round and round Central Park in NYC, having no idea what to do next. I thought I’d travel. I thought I’d stare at the walls for a while. Instead—and it all happened so suddenly and cinematically that it might defy belief—I remembered that actually I had always wanted to be a writer. So I started writing that very evening. The next day I signed up for a class at NYU in creative nonfiction writing. And the next week, I attended the first session of class and knew that I was finally home. I had no expectation of ever making a living through writing, but it was crystal clear to me that from then on, writing would be my center, and that I would look for freelance work that would give me lots of free time to pursue it. If I had 'succeeded' at making partner, right on schedule, I might still be miserably negotiating corporate transactions 16 hours a day. It’s not that I’d never thought about what else I might like to do other than law, but until I had the time and space to think about life outside the hermetic culture of a law practice, I couldn’t figure out what I really wanted to do." -Tim Ferriss
"Dell irrumpió en el terreno superpoblado de los ordenadores personales al ser la primera empresa en vender estos aparatos por teléfono." -Tim Ferriss
"This idea that we’re either courageous or chicken shit is just not true, because most of us are afraid and brave at the exact same moment, all day long." -Tim Ferriss
"THE KEY TO having more time is doing less, and there are two paths to getting there, both of which should be used together: (1) Define a to-do list and (2) define a not-to" -Tim Ferriss
"El punto de partida es el corazón, no la razón" -Tim Ferriss
"achievement is no more than a passing grade in life. It’s a C+ that gets you limping along to the next grade. For anything more, and certainly for anything approaching happiness, you have to want what you already have." -Tim Ferriss
"Martin Luther King, Jr., famously remarked that 'justice too long delayed is justice denied.' Learning is similar—" -Tim Ferriss
"the more clear I am about what my goals are, the more easily I can say no." -Tim Ferriss
"How Much of Your Life Is Making Versus Managing? How Do You Feel About the Split?" -Tim Ferriss
"Second, you must have a direct relationship with your fans. That is, they must pay you directly. You get to keep all of their support, unlike the small percentage of their fees you might get from a music label, publisher, studio, retailer, or other intermediate. If you keep the full $100 from each true fan, then you need only 1,000 of them to earn $100K per year. That’s a living for most folks. 1,000" -Tim Ferriss
"job descriptions as self-descriptions." -Tim Ferriss
"Mondays would be squats and all other leg assistance. Tuesdays would be off. Wednesdays would be bench with chest assistance and a lot of tricep work. I would come in Thursdays, after pre-fatiguing the triceps on Wednesday, and only hit shoulders [primary go-to exercises: seated behind-the-neck barbell press, working up to 400-plus pounds]. I would deadlift on Friday [with light squats as a warmup], do all of my back work. Saturday would be a light bench day for recovery using wide-grip bench, flies, etc., with occasional smaller exercises" -Tim Ferriss
"I’m very much in favor of learning. I’m much more skeptical of credentialing or the abstraction called ‘education." -Tim Ferriss
"Richard lost a battle with cancer this year, but he experienced more in this life than most men could in ten, and he lived this quote until his last breath." -Tim Ferriss
"which vitamin D is able to regulate the production of serotonin in the brain and the various implications this may" -Tim Ferriss
"Tylko kilka słów na temat zarządzania czasem: wybij to sobie z głowy. W dosłownym sensie chodzi o to, że nie powinieneś robić każdego dnia więcej, starając się wypełnić każdą sekundę jakąś pracą. Sporo czasu zajęło mi zrozumienie tej zasady. Wcześniej z upodobaniem starałem się mierzyć rezultaty ilością pracy. Nieustanne zajmowanie się czymś stanowi często pretekst do unikania niezwykle ważnych, ale niewygodnych działań. Możliwości „zajmowania się' czymś są niemal nieograniczone." -Tim Ferriss
"you put creativity in everything, everything becomes available to you.’ . . ." -Tim Ferriss
"Leche de magnesia. «Citrato de magnesio, cloruro de magnesio y glicinato de magnesio… Cuando empecé con la dieta cetogénica comencé a tener calambres. Con estos suplementos no tengo ningún calambre… Si tuviera que elegir un solo suplemento de" -Tim Ferriss
"The Autobiography of Malcolm X," -Tim Ferriss
"Like everything, there’s a pain period when you step out of your comfort zone. And just when it seems toughest, and you most want to give up (because it’s too much time/work/energy, because you don’t understand it, because you don’t trust it), if you push through that moment, immediately afterward you break free and it becomes a habit that you feel you’ve been doing all your life (and know you should have been doing all your life)." -Tim Ferriss
"Life doesn't have to be so damn hard. It really doesn't. Most people, my past self included, have spent too much time convincing themselves that life has to be hard, a resignation to 9-to-5 drudgery in exchange for (sometimes) relaxing weekends and the occasional keep-it-short-or-get-fired vacation." -Tim Ferriss
"Creativity operates differently. You work hard because you’re inspired to, not because you have to. Work becomes fun, and you have energy for days because this life is not a 'young man’s game.' It is an 'inspired person’s game." -Tim Ferriss
"When I hear stories of success and failure, I look for the little things that made a big difference. What conventional wisdom was shunned? …" -Tim Ferriss
"The World Doesn’t Need Your Explanation. On Saying 'No':" -Tim Ferriss
"Once you have a product that sells, it’s time to design a self-correcting business architecture that runs itself." -Tim Ferriss
"Test the most basic assumptions of the work-life equation. How do your decisions change if retirement isn’t an option? What if you could use a mini-retirement to sample your deferred-life plan reward before working 40 years for it? Is it really necessary to work like a slave to live like a millionaire?" -Tim Ferriss
"You don’t 'succeed' because you have no weaknesses; you succeed because you find your unique strengths and focus on developing habits around them …." -Tim Ferriss
"Reality is negotiable. Outside of science and law, all rules can be bent or broken, and it doesn’t require being unethical." -Tim Ferriss
"Tener muy fuertes el glúteo medio, el músculo tensor de la fascia lata y el músculo vasto medial es esencial para un alineamiento completo rodilla-cadera y para la longevidad del rendimiento.»" -Tim Ferriss
"Peter ha escrito en otro lugar: «El próximo Bill Gates no creará un sistema operativo. El próximo Larry Page o Serguéi Brin no hará un buscador de internet. Y el próximo Mark Zuckerberg no creará una red social. Si copias a estos tipos, no estás aprendiendo nada de ellos»." -Tim Ferriss
"«El hombre razonable se adapta al mundo; el irrazonable persiste en intentar adaptar el mundo a él. Por consiguiente, todo progreso depende del hombre irrazonable.»" -Tim Ferriss
"#4—If you respond, don’t over-apologize." -Tim Ferriss
"The Upside of Disaster 'What’s very fortunate, beautiful, wonderful, and also, in a weird way, tragic about modern society, is that crisis has been removed. When you reintroduce a crisis like in the Blitz in London or an earthquake that I wrote about in Avezzano, Italy, early in the 20th century, [things change]. In Avezzano, something like 95% of the population was killed. I’m going from memory, but unbelievable casualty, just like a nuclear strike. . . . People had to rely on each other, so everyone—upper-class people, lower-class people, peasants, and nobility—sort of crouched around the same campfires. One of the survivors said, ‘The earthquake gave us what the law promises but does not, in fact, deliver, which is the equality of all men." -Tim Ferriss
"Pero la audiencia no oirá eso. Sólo se quedará con lo que sintió cuando Megyn Kelly pronunció el nombre de esa persona [más] barbaridades sobre las mujeres." -Tim Ferriss
"The blog post I point people to the most is called ‘First, Ten,’ and it is a simple theory of marketing that says: tell ten people, show ten people, share it with ten people; ten people who already trust you and already like you. If they don’t tell anybody else, it’s not that good and you should start over. If they do tell other people, you’re on your way.' TO" -Tim Ferriss
"When you complain, nobody wants to help you," -Tim Ferriss
"not only use all the dreams that I have, but all that I can borrow." -Tim Ferriss
"It's usually better to keep old resolutions than to make new ones." -Tim Ferriss
"libro Who [de Geoff Smart y Randy Street] es una versión condensada de Topgrading, y supe de él en Mint, cuyo fundador lo usaba.»" -Tim Ferriss
"Me di cuenta de que distanciarse de la situación, para poder ver lo que está pasando, es crucial." -Tim Ferriss
"Life should not be a journey to the grave with the intention of arriving safely in a pretty and well preserved body, but rather to skid in broadside in a cloud of smoke, thoroughly used up, totally worn out, and loudly proclaiming ‘Wow! What a Ride!’'—Hunter S. Thompson, The Proud Highway: Saga of a Desperate Southern Gentleman, 1955–1967" -Tim Ferriss
"It just requires you to gives lots of damns, which not enough people do.' A Damn-Giving Assignment of Less Than 15 Minutes Improve a notification email from your business (e.g., subscription confirmation, order confirmation, whatever): 'Invest that little bit of time to make it a little bit more human or—depending on your brand—a little funnier, a little more different, or a little more whatever. It’ll be worth it, and that’s my challenge." -Tim Ferriss
"What are bad recommendations you hear in your profession or area of expertise? 'You’re too young.' Most of history was built by young people. They just got credit when they were older." -Tim Ferriss
"*What is the best or most worthwhile investment you’ve made? 'The best thing I ever did, besides getting sober 25 years ago, was shelving my restaurant career in 2002, selling my shares in my restaurant, and working for free for a local radio station, magazine, and TV station in an effort to create my own media syllabus. I wanted to create a product with a massive platform, and try to make a difference in the world, and I couldn’t do it without becoming a 40-year-old intern, learning everything I needed, and rebooting my career." -Tim Ferriss
"Parkinson’s Law dictates that a task will swell in (perceived) importance and complexity in relation to the time allotted for its completion. It is the magic of the imminent deadline. If I give you 24 hours to complete a project, the time pressure forces you to focus on execution, and you have no choice but to do only the bare essentials. If I give you a week to complete the same task, it’s six days of making a mountain out of a molehill. If I give you two months, God forbid, it becomes a mental monster. The end product of the shorter deadline is almost inevitably of equal or higher quality due to greater focus." -Tim Ferriss
"I had to get back to this place where you just want water, food, and shelter. All the craziness of my life—this Wall Street life I had taken on—would go away, would melt away." -Tim Ferriss
"In place of the scale, I use DEXA scans, a BodyMetrix home ultrasound device, or" -Tim Ferriss
"teaches" -Tim Ferriss
"There are two synergistic approaches for increasing productivity that are inversions of each other: 1. Limit tasks to the important to shorten work time (80/20). 2. Shorten work time to limit tasks to the important (Parkinson’s Law)." -Tim Ferriss
"Always ask: What am I missing? And listen to the answer." -Tim Ferriss
"Now I know that parenting is also one way to stay young." -Tim Ferriss
"Part of knowing who you are is knowing who you’re not." -Tim Ferriss
"After you feel the acute pain of your current handicapping beliefs, you formulate 2 to 3 replacement beliefs to use moving forward. This is done so that 'you are not pulled back into [old beliefs] by old language patterns." -Tim Ferriss
"La diversificación sirve casi en cualquier ámbito de la vida para reducir el estrés»." -Tim Ferriss
"What is the book (or books) you’ve given most as a gift, and why? Or what are one to three books that have greatly influenced your life? Mastery by George Leonard. I first read this book 20 years ago, after reading Leonard’s Esquire article, the seed from which the book grew. Leonard wrote the book to share lessons from becoming an Aikido master teacher, despite starting practice at the advanced age of 47. I raced through its 170-plus pages in a state of almost feverish excitement, so strongly did it affirm our swimming method. The book helped me see swimming as an ideal vehicle for teaching the mastery habits and behaviors closely interwoven with our instruction in the physical techniques of swimming. I love this book because it is as good a guide as I’ve ever seen to a life well lived. A brief summary: Life is not designed to hand us success or satisfaction, but rather to present us with challenges that make us grow. Mastery is the mysterious process by which those challenges become progressively easier and more satisfying through practice. The key to that satisfaction is to reach the nirvana in which love of practice for its own sake (intrinsic) replaces the original goal (extrinsic) as our grail. The antithesis of mastery is the pursuit of quick fixes. My five steps to mastery: Choose a worthy and meaningful challenge. Seek a sensei or master teacher (like George Leonard) to help you establish the right path and priorities. Practice diligently, always striving to hone key skills and to progress incrementally toward new levels of competence. Love the plateau. All worthwhile progress occurs through brief, thrilling leaps forward followed by long stretches during which you feel you’re going nowhere. Though it seems as if we’re making no progress, we are turning new behaviors into habits. Learning continues at the cellular level . . . if you follow good practice principles. Mastery is a journey, not a destination. True masters never believe they have attained mastery. There is always more to be learned and greater skill to be developed." -Tim Ferriss
"Get a simple tape measure and measure four locations: both upper arms (mid-bicep), waist" -Tim Ferriss
"It’s so hard to forget pain, but it’s even harder to remember sweetness. We have no scar to show for happiness. We learn so little from peace.' –Chuck Palahniuk Famed" -Tim Ferriss
"It works like this: Reseller A sells the product for your recommended advertised price of $50, then reseller B sells it for $45 to compete with A, and then C sells it for $40 to compete with A and B. In no time at all, no one is making profit from selling your product and reorders disappear. Customers are now accustomed to the lower pricing and the process is irreversible. The product is dead and you need to create a new product. This is precisely the reason why so many companies need to create new product after new product month after month. It’s a headache." -Tim Ferriss
"«Mi recomendación es que, siempre que te sea posible, te plantees: ¿Cuál es la repercusión más pequeña posible que puedo conseguir? ¿Cuál es el proyecto más pequeño posible que merece mi tiempo? ¿Cuál es el grupo más pequeño de gente en el que puedo destacar?" -Tim Ferriss
"Pero démosle la vuelta para que no parezca tan degradante: No se trata de besarle el culo a nadie. No se trata de hacer quedar bien a otros. Se trata de dar el apoyo necesario para que los demás lo hagan bien. La mejor manera de expresar este consejo es: Busca el lienzo adecuado para que otros lo pinten. Actúa como anteambulo." -Tim Ferriss
"People don’t want to be millionaires—they want to experience what they believe only millions can buy." -Tim Ferriss
"Sharpening your logical and practical mental toolbox is not being an atheist or unspiritual." -Tim Ferriss
"What are the top-three activities that I use to fill time to feel as though I’ve been productive?" -Tim Ferriss
"A problem is a terrible thing to waste.' This is highly related to the 'scratch your own itch' thread that pops up throughout this book. Peter expands: 'I think of problems as gold mines. The world’s biggest problems are the world’s biggest business opportunities." -Tim Ferriss
"When you have the best and tastiest ingredients, you can cook very simply and the food will be extraordinary because it tastes like what it is.' And: 'Good cooking is no mystery. You don’t need years of culinary training, or rare and costly foodstuffs, or an encyclopedic knowledge of world cuisines. You need only your own five senses." -Tim Ferriss
"Biology isn't about blunt force." -Tim Ferriss
"So, my advice to my 30-year-old self is, don’t be a donkey. You can do everything you want to do. You just need foresight and patience." -Tim Ferriss
"Vagabonding involves taking an extended time-out from your normal life—6 weeks, 4 months, 2 years—to travel the world on your own terms. But" -Tim Ferriss
"Sometimes you need to allow life to save you from getting what you want.' Brandon Stanton" -Tim Ferriss
"Always make new mistakes!' I actually get royalties of about $50 per year from Quotable Quotes for this one." -Tim Ferriss
"團隊活動，更有動力這句話出自萊爾德，也是他生活的最佳寫照。他有一群一起運動的好朋友，大家關係緊密，相處融洽，讓他們充滿向心力的關鍵似乎正是規律的團體運動。如果你跟我一樣，比較在乎運動的方法和內容（例如運動項目和運動計畫等），或許你可以變換思考：「如果得以『對象』作為運動的首要條件呢？如果一定得跟他人一起運動，我會怎麼做？」正是這個思維轉變開啟了我的雙人瑜伽之路。給家長的教養建議一九九七年，萊爾德與蓋比結為連理，如今育有三女，親子關係相當融洽，很讓人稱羨。我好幾次觀察到他們家人之間的親密肢體互動洋溢著溫暖，讓周遭的人也感受到幸福。從訪談過程中，我得出下列教養重點。萊爾德：「對子女的愛能消融各種錯誤，即使是父母的失誤及犯錯。」蓋比：「我們的態度是兼容並蓄，把他們當作大人[…]'Excerpt From: 提摩西．費里斯（Timothy Ferriss）. '人生勝利聖經.' Apple Books." -Tim Ferriss
"You guarantee a good meal by picking the recipes well, not by following recipes well." -Tim Ferriss
"Prüvit KETO//OS: cetonas exógenas cremosas, saben fenomenal" -Tim Ferriss
"DEC told its prospects why they ought to buy a minicomputer, not a DEC minicomputer." -Tim Ferriss
"Lifestyle design is based on massive action—output. Increased output necessitates decreased input. Most information is time-consuming, negative, irrelevant to your goals, and outside of your influence. I challenge you to look at whatever you read or watched today and tell me that it wasn’t at least two of the four." -Tim Ferriss
"I now eat four Brazil nuts and one tablespoon of almond butter first thing upon waking." -Tim Ferriss
"But the best things that ever happened to me came during the times when the shit hit the fan and I had nothing and nobody to help me. Who are you really? What do you really want? Get out there and fail and find out." -Tim Ferriss
"Gain a language and you gain a second lens through which to question and understand the world." -Tim Ferriss
"wisdom" -Tim Ferriss
"XTEND Perform, de Scivation, es un suplemento de aminoácidos ramificados (BCAA): leucina, isoleucina y valina en una combinación de 2 a 1 a 1, de forma que la leucina es el aminoácido ramificado predominante en la fórmula. «La leucina es un potente activador de la vía mTOR, lo cual es bueno; activar la vía mTOR en el músculo esquelético es realmente importante al realizar un poco de ejercicio. Yo uso este producto antes y durante la práctica de ejercicio" -Tim Ferriss
"what you do is infinitely more important than how you do it." -Tim Ferriss
"«Los niños no hacen lo que les dices que hagan. Hacen lo que ven. Tu forma de vivir la vida les sirve a ellos de ejemplo.»" -Tim Ferriss
"The consequences of bad decisions do not get better with age." -Tim Ferriss
"PETER: 'The pitch was, ‘Listen, wouldn’t you want entrepreneurs around the world to be working on new technologies so that this is off your balance sheet?’' TF:" -Tim Ferriss
"Show me an incumbent bigco failing to adapt to change, I’ll show you top execs paid huge cash compensation for quarterly and annual goals." -Tim Ferriss
"These two books are actually parts one and two of a six-part collection called Rationality: From AI to Zombies, sourced from Yudkowsky’s blog posts from the site LessWrong.com over the last decade." -Tim Ferriss
"Without Their Permission." -Tim Ferriss
"I wanted to go on offense. I wanted to have the time to focus, to learn the things I wanted to learn, to build what I wanted to build, and to really invest in relationships that I wanted to grow, rather than just doing a day of coffee after coffee after coffee." -Tim Ferriss
"It’s when I’m fuzzy about where I’m headed that I start to say yes to things willy-nilly." -Tim Ferriss
"por no haberle explicado de forma que lo entienda por qué necesitas el respaldo que necesitas." -Tim Ferriss
"committed to one push-up before bed. Yes," -Tim Ferriss
"You don’t 'succeed' because you have no weaknesses; you succeed because you find your unique strengths and focus on developing habits around them. . . . Everyone is fighting a battle [and has fought battles] you know nothing about." -Tim Ferriss
"More than just being paid to produce works of art, these artists performed a number of tasks in exchange for protection, food, and gifts. One of the roles was that of an anteambulo—literally meaning 'one who clears the path.' An anteambulo proceeded in front of his patron anywhere they traveled in Rome, making way, communicating messages, and generally making the patron’s life easier." -Tim Ferriss
"If you could have a gigantic billboard anywhere with anything on it, what would it say and why? 'You are good enough, just as you are. Breathe, and relax into the moment." -Tim Ferriss
"lo que haces es infinitamente más importante que cómo lo haces." -Tim Ferriss
"Greetings, Friends [or Esteemed Colleagues], Due to high workload, I am currently checking and responding to e-mail twice daily at 12:00 P.M. ET [or your time zone] and 4:00 P.M. ET. If you require urgent assistance (please ensure it is urgent) that cannot wait until either 12:00 P.M. or 4:00 P.M., please contact me via phone at 555-555-5555. Thank you for understanding this move to more efficiency and effectiveness. It helps me accomplish more to serve you better. Sincerely, Tim Ferriss" -Tim Ferriss
"«How to Find Your Purpose and Do What You Love.»" -Tim Ferriss
"Quest Nutrition MCT Oil Powder y Quest Nutrition Coconut Oil Powder Kettle & Fire Bone Broth dos o tres veces por semana Idebenona «es otro compuesto que tomo [400 mg] cuando vuelo o antes de realizar ejercicio intenso. Considero la idebenona como una versión de la coenzima Q10. Se absorbe mejor y llega a la mitocondria con más facilidad. Es como un antioxidante mitocondrial»." -Tim Ferriss
"Anyone who lives within their means suffers from a lack of imagination.' –Oscar Wilde" -Tim Ferriss
"Law 2: When given a choice … take both. Law" -Tim Ferriss
"would I ever use ayahuasca again after that? Here’s why: Over subsequent weeks, I realized that some of the most critical relationships in my life had been completely repaired. I saw things differently, reacted differently, and interacted differently, as if I had been reprogrammed. Those changes all persist to this day. So, there’s a huge potential upside but equally huge potential downside if taken lightly or done with the wrong people. I mention this cautionary tale because ayahuasca has become terribly trendy. It’s THE thing to talk about at cocktail parties, and I shudder every time I hear something along the lines of 'I’m going to my friend’s place in Manhattan for an aya ceremony this Sunday night. She mail-ordered some brew from Hawaii, and we’re doing it together. It’s going to be amazing.' There are now hundreds of new-age folks—out-there yoga instructors, didgeridoo players, whatever—who decide to 'play shaman" -Tim Ferriss
"If you could have a gigantic billboard anywhere with anything on it, what would it say and why? My message would be: 'Sugar is toxic.' Sugar and other natural or artificial sweeteners are among the most addictive agents in our environment. When consumed in quantities that exceed the rate of metabolism in muscle or the brain, sugar is converted to fat, resulting in insulin resistance, obesity, and an increased risk of many other diseases, including cancers. While consuming fats and proteins evokes a feeling of satiety, consuming sugars induces a desire for more sugar within an hour or so. We evolved this addiction because, in the not-so-distant past, adding fat to our bodies at the end of a growing season when fruits were ripe was essential for surviving until the next growing season. But today, sugar is available all year round and is one of the cheapest foods available. So we continually add fat to our bodies. We may be approaching a time when sugar is responsible for more early deaths in America than cigarette smoking. I have written and lectured extensively on this subject over the past ten years as our understanding of the biochemical basis for the toxicity of sugar, especially the link to cancer, has become more clear." -Tim Ferriss
"Every billionaire suffers from the same problem. Nobody around them ever says, ‘Hey, that stupid idea you just had is really stupid." -Tim Ferriss
"Everyone is interesting. If you’re ever bored in a conversation, the problem’s with you, not the other person." -Tim Ferriss
"When they’re told that some people or ideas are wrong, hateful, or offensive, a light bulb should go off in their heads. That is the moment their curiosity should be piqued to find out for themselves whether it is indeed a 'bad' thing. Adopting an attitude of critical thinking is most crucial in learning anything. Many students come to me full of wonderful intentions hoping to change the world; they plan to spend their time helping the poor and disadvantaged. I tell them to first graduate and make a lot of money, and only then figure out how best to help those in need. Too often students can’t meaningfully help the disadvantaged now, even if it makes them feel good for trying to." -Tim Ferriss
"far from being a reason not to travel and seek adventure, children are perhaps the best reason of all to do both." -Tim Ferriss
"Play more. I feel like people are so serious, and it doesn’t take much for people to drop back into the wisdom of a childlike playfulness. If I had to prescribe two things to improve health and happiness in the world, it’d be movement and play. Because you can’t really play without moving, so they’re intertwined." -Tim Ferriss
"you are the average of the five people you associate with most, so do not underestimate the effects of your pessimistic, unambitious, or disorganized friends. If someone isn’t making you stronger, they’re making you weaker." -Tim Ferriss
"Si te distraes o empiezas a posponerlo, no pierdas los nervios ni caigas en la espiral negativa; retoma con docilidad la tarea número UNO." -Tim Ferriss
"What Makes a Good Commander? 'The immediate answer that comes to mind is ‘humility.’ Because you’ve got to be humble, and you’ve got to be coachable. . . . Later, when I was running training, we would fire a couple leaders from every SEAL Team because they couldn’t lead. And 99.9% of the time, it wasn’t a question of their ability to shoot a weapon, it wasn’t because they weren’t in good physical shape, it wasn’t because they were unsafe. It was almost always a question of their ability to listen, open their mind, and see that, maybe, there’s a better way to do things. That is from a lack of humility. . . . 'We put these guys through very realistic and challenging training, to say the least. If there are any guys who went through training when I was running it, right now they’re chuckling because it was very realistic. In fact, it was borderline psychotic. We put so much pressure on these guys and overwhelmed them. A good leader would come back and say [something like one of the following], ‘I lost it, I didn’t control it. I didn’t do a good job. I didn’t see what was happening. I got too absorbed in this little tiny tactical situation that was right in front of me.’ Either they’d make those criticisms about themselves, or they’d ask, ‘What did I do wrong?’ And when you told them, they’d nod their head, pull out their notebook, and take notes. That right there, that’s a guy who’s going to make it, who’s going to get it right. The arrogant guys, who lacked humility, they couldn’t take criticism from others—and couldn’t even do an honest self-assessment because they thought they already knew everything. Stay humble or get humbled." -Tim Ferriss
"When you feel you can’t go on, know that you’re just getting started." -Tim Ferriss
"Christopher Sommer Tótem: Halcón «Si los mejores del mundo se parten el culo para hacerse fuertes, ¿por qué no lo haces tú?» Christopher Sommer (IG/FB: @GymnasticBodies, gymnasticbodies.com) fue entrenador del Equipo Nacional de Gimnasia Artística de Estados Unidos y es fundador del sistema de entrenamiento GymnasticBodies" -Tim Ferriss
"What is an unusual habit or an absurd thing that you love? The really ridiculous thing, which I find totally life-changing is, at little pauses in our life, or when we need rejuvenation, I call [my wife] Elaine, and we sit or stand, and revisit a moment in our past by watching a music video on YouTube. It’s an extraordinary thing. If Proust had had YouTube, he wouldn’t have had to write À la recherche du temps perdu, because thanks to it, none of our past is ever lost. We can revisit it any time we like. There is our Back to the Future, there is our little piece of personal time travel, back to a time and a place earlier in our life that is rich in emotion, and it’s magically easy to do, and it takes almost no time at all." -Tim Ferriss
"The Checklist Manifesto." -Tim Ferriss
"The player of the inner game comes to value the art of relaxed concentration above all other skills; he discovers the true basis for self-confidence; and he learns that the secret to winning any game lies in not trying too hard." -Tim Ferriss
"all information and interruptions that are irrelevant, unimportant, or unactionable." -Tim Ferriss
"while the world is a gold mine, you need to go digging in other people’s heads to unearth riches." -Tim Ferriss
"There is a big difference between intelligence and wisdom. Many are fooled into thinking they are the same thing, but they are not. I have seen intelligent serial killers, but I’ve never seen a wise one." -Tim Ferriss
"Manuel Blum, who many people consider the father of cryptography [encryption, etc.]." -Tim Ferriss
"«No has de acumular, sino eliminar. No se trata de aumentar cada día, sino de disminuir cada día. Cultivarse a uno mismo culmina siempre en la simplicidad.»" -Tim Ferriss
"What you study is more important than how you study. Students are subordinate to materials, much like novice cooks are subordinate to recipes. If you select the wrong material, the wrong textbook, the wrong group of words, it doesn't matter how much (or how well) you study. It doesn't matter how good your teacher is. One must find the highest-frequency material. Material beats method." -Tim Ferriss
"Life is not designed to hand us success or satisfaction, but rather to present us with challenges that make us grow." -Tim Ferriss
"The Art of Possibility by Rosamund Stone Zander and Benjamin Zander: '. . . . which is very hard to find on audio and is totally worth seeking out." -Tim Ferriss
"The Road by Cormac McCarthy." -Tim Ferriss
"If I am not for myself, who will be for me? But if I am only for myself, what am I? And if not now, when?' –Rabbi Hillel" -Tim Ferriss
"The seminal change in the business from then to now is that a young person should view the career pyramid differently rather than traditionally. Put the point at the bottom where you are now (at the start of your career) and conceive your future as an expanding opportunity horizon where you can move laterally across the spectrum in search of an ever-widening set of career opportunities. Reinvent yourself regularly. See your world as an ever-increasing set of realities and seize the day." -Tim Ferriss
"CHICKEN HIGADO PÂTÉ" -Tim Ferriss
"The privilege of a lifetime is being who you are.' –Joseph Campbell American mythologist and writer, known for The Hero with a Thousand Faces" -Tim Ferriss
"I believe I’m below average. It’s a deliberate, cultivated belief to compensate for our tendency to think we’re above average." -Tim Ferriss
"Remember Who You Are" -Tim Ferriss
"The moment that you feel that, just possibly, you’re walking down the street naked, exposing too much of your heart and your mind and what exists on the inside, showing too much of yourself. That’s the moment you may be starting to get it right.' —Neil Gaiman, University" -Tim Ferriss
"How to thrive in an unknowable future? Choose the plan with the most options. The best plan is the one that lets you change your plans." -Tim Ferriss
"Jeśli chcemy mieć więcej czasu, musimy robić mniej – to kluczowy warunek. Istnieją dwa sposoby osiągnięcia tego stanu, które najlepiej zastosować równocześnie: (1) przygotuj krótką listę rzeczy do zrobienia; (2) przygotuj listę rzeczy, których nie należy robić." -Tim Ferriss
"The vision is really about empowering workers, giving them all the information about what’s going on so they can do a lot more than they’ve done in the past. —BILL GATES, cofounder of Microsoft, richest man in the world" -Tim Ferriss
"Study the Opposites In addition to studying his competition in tech and early-stage investing, Marc studies value investors on the completely opposite side of the spectrum, such as Warren Buffett and Seth Klarman. This doesn’t mean they invest in the same types of companies; rather, the synergy is related to first principles." -Tim Ferriss
"The stars will never align" -Tim Ferriss
"Autobiografía de un yogui, de Paramahansa Yogananda (Ananda, 2010). Éste es uno de los libros más impactantes que leyó Dan mientras vivió en la selva. Steve Jobs pidió que repartieran este libro entre los asistentes a su funeral." -Tim Ferriss
"Normalmente nunca quieres formar parte de una tendencia popular. No quieres ser la cuarta empresa que vende comida para mascotas por internet a finales de la década de 1990. No quieres ser la decimosegunda empresa de paneles solares de la última década. Y no quieres ser la enésima empresa de ninguna tendencia en particular." -Tim Ferriss
"I’ve seen the promised land, and there is good news. You can have it all." -Tim Ferriss
"Neal Stephenson is an incredible writer who manages to create fictional characters who reveal the eccentricities and absurdities of real-life scientists and mathematicians as they go about their work of creativity. Were I to teach a course on the history of science, The Baroque Cycle would be required reading. It is way over the top in capturing the character of Newton and his contemporaries, and the science sometimes (intentionally) becomes magical, but with the interwoven sex and violence, it is way too much fun to put down." -Tim Ferriss
"Escribe para tener ideas, no para expresarlas" -Tim Ferriss
"We discourage failure and by doing so we subtly discourage success." -Tim Ferriss
"I always advise young people to become good public speakers (top 25%). Anyone can do it with practice. If you add that talent to any other, suddenly you’re the boss of the people who have only one skill. Or get a degree in business on top of your engineering degree, law degree, medical degree, science degree, or whatever. Suddenly you’re in charge, or maybe you’re starting your own company using your combined knowledge." -Tim Ferriss
"be consumed during meals by using a potassium- enriched salt like 'Lite Salt' or, my preference, eating extra guacamole with Mexican meals. Avocadoes, the main ingredient in guacamole, contain 60% more potassium than bananas. Avocadoes also contain 75% insoluble fiber, which will help keep you regular. If you prefer pills, 99-milligram tablets with meals will do the trick. Magnesium and calcium are easiest to consume in pill form, and 500 milligrams of magnesium taken" -Tim Ferriss
"donde el mayor indicador de la satisfacción laboral es que el trabajo te interese mentalmente." -Tim Ferriss
"si no haces algo bien, no lo hagas a menos que estés dispuesto a dedicar tiempo a mejorarlo." -Tim Ferriss
"I really like macadamia nuts, but I vary that so I don’t develop intolerances. . . ." -Tim Ferriss
"On my coffee table at home, I have a piece of driftwood. Its sole purpose is to display a quote by Anaïs Nin, which I see every day: 'Life shrinks or expands in proportion to one’s courage.' It’s a short reminder that success can usually be measured by the number of uncomfortable conversations we are willing to have, and by the number of uncomfortable actions we are willing to take. The most fulfilled and effective people I know—world-famous creatives, billionaires, thought leaders, and more—look at their life’s journey as perhaps 25 percent finding themselves and 75 percent creating themselves. This book is not intended to be a passive experience. It’s intended to be a call to action. You are the author of your own life, and it’s never too late to replace the stories you tell yourself and the world. It’s never too late to begin a new chapter, add a surprise twist, or change genres entirely." -Tim Ferriss
"Donaciones: «Y la última que he encontrado:" -Tim Ferriss
"The more you run from your fears, the bigger they get, but the more you go into them, the more they tend to vanish like a mirage." -Tim Ferriss
"In short, it’s those who experience a 'transcendental experience.' Remember that squirrelly term? Jim describes this as 'the feeling or the awareness that you are connected not only to other people, but to other things and living systems and to the air you breathe. We tend to think we’re kind of encapsulated. . . . Obviously, the air I am breathing comes from all over the world, and some of it’s a billion years old. Every 8 years, I get almost all new cells from something. Everything I eat is connected to me. Everyone I meet is connected to me. Right now you and I are sitting outside, and our feet are touching the ground. We’re connected to the ground. Now, that’s all easy to say intellectually and even poetically. But when you actually experience that you’re part of this larger system, one of the things that you become aware of is that your ego—your personal identity—is not that big a part of you. 'What I learned was—and this is from my own personal experience in 1961—‘Jim Fadiman’ is a subset of me, and the me is very, very large and a lot smarter and knows a lot more than ‘Jim Fadiman.’' He saw a similar shift in subjects during his dissertation research, and they very often laughed during these realizations: 'In a very deep way, and it isn’t the giggles of marijuana. It’s the laughter of ‘how could I have forgotten who I really am?’ And then, much later in the day, when they’re reintegrating and finding that they are surprisingly still in the same body they came in with . . . one person said very beautifully, ‘I was back in the prison of all of the things that hold me back, but I could see that the door was locked from the inside." -Tim Ferriss
"For all of the most important things, the timing always sucks." -Tim Ferriss
"Library" -Tim Ferriss
"If you’re looking for an abdominal exercise well-suited to power development without bulk, look no further than the Janda sit-up." -Tim Ferriss
"Hot baths can also significantly increase GH over baseline, and both sauna and hot baths have been shown to cause a massive release in prolactin, which plays a role in wound healing. I" -Tim Ferriss
"Consider using the free, cross-platform tool VeraCrypt. If you feel you might ever be compelled to reveal a password for your computer such as at a border crossing or by 'rubber hose' cryptanalysis (being beaten by a rubber hose until you squeal), you can use 'hidden volumes' to hide" -Tim Ferriss
"Don’t overestimate the world and underestimate yourself. You are better than you think. And you are not alone." -Tim Ferriss
"También es importante sopesar el coste atroz de no actuar. Si no persigues lo que te entusiasma, ¿dónde" -Tim Ferriss
"No es necesario que sacrifiques la integridad de tu arte para tener unos ingresos respetables. Basta con que crees una gran experiencia y cobres por ella." -Tim Ferriss
"Brené Brown" -Tim Ferriss
"Having an unusually large goal is an adrenaline infusion that provides the endurance to overcome the inevitable trials and tribulations that go along with any goal. Realistic goals, goals restricted to the average ambition level, are uninspiring and will only fuel you through the first or second problem, at which point you throw in the towel. If the potential payoff is mediocre or average, so is your effort. I’ll run through walls to get a catamaran trip through the Greek islands, but I might not change my brand of cereal for a weekend trip through Columbus, Ohio. If I choose the latter because it is 'realistic,' I won’t have the enthusiasm to jump even the smallest hurdle to accomplish it. With beautiful, crystal-clear Greek waters and delicious wine on the brain, I’m prepared to do battle for a dream that is worth dreaming. Even though their difficulty of achievement on a scale of 1–10 appears to be a 10 and a 2 respectively, Columbus is more likely to fall through." -Tim Ferriss
"you never want to solve a research problem with language. You" -Tim Ferriss
"now routinely listen to her. To have your mind explode, search 'Tchaikovsky Piano Concerto No 1 FULL Argerich Charles Dutoit' and check out minute 31." -Tim Ferriss
"Lifestyle design is based on massive action—output. Increased output necessitates decreased input. Most" -Tim Ferriss
"CREATING DEMAND IS hard. Filling demand is much easier. Don’t create a product, then seek someone to sell it to. Find a market—define your customers—then find or develop a product for them." -Tim Ferriss
"Live. Give. Forgive.' They are by far the most important things in life." -Tim Ferriss
"How has a failure, or apparent failure, set you up for later success? Do you have a 'favorite failure' of yours? There was a period when I was drinking at every show, and I was DJing a lot, maybe four nights a week, playing local shows in Los Angeles. I had a couple of Dim Mak parties, and we were on top of the world! We had cornered the market with our sound and culture, and I was just getting booked left and right. I was the ambassador of this new culture that was burgeoning in electronic music called 'electro,' and my ego was flexing a bit. I was drinking and having fun. It was a great feeling, but then you forget about the most important things in life because you’re in that fog of self-indulgence. My mom was coming to visit me, and she never flies in. This was one of the few times she had. I was supposed to pick her up in the morning. I had a big night the night before—we had a party, I drank, and I stayed out super late. The next morning my mom landed around 7 A.M., and I slept through it. I woke up at 10 A.M., or something awful like three hours later. I saw a text message from my mom—she barely even knew how to text! I don’t know why, but she waited at the airport for three hours, sitting outside on a bench. My poor mom. Once I got to the airport an hour later—making it four hours she had been there—she was just innocently sitting on this bench, and I broke down. She was still so sweet about it. It was at that moment that I felt like this whole life of partying and drinking was all bullshit, especially if you can’t maintain your priorities of valuing and taking care of your family. That was one fail I will never forget. After that, I stopped being caught up in that Hollywood bubble where everyone parties and drinks every single night. You can live in that bubble and forget about the realities of your family and relationships outside the bubble. But those relationships are vital to who you are and are important in your life. Eventually, I quit drinking, which I am happy about, partly because of this major fail." -Tim Ferriss
"Obras de Pema Chödrön:" -Tim Ferriss
"Mistakes Were Made (But Not by Me), de Carol Tavris y Elliot Aronson." -Tim Ferriss
"The Power of Myth For screenwriting, Jon recommends The Writer’s Journey by Christopher Vogler, which he used to determine if Swingers was structurally correct. He is also a big fan of The Power of Myth, a video interview of Joseph Campbell by Bill Moyers. 'With The Jungle Book, I really am going back and doubling down on the old myths.' TF: We recorded our podcast during the shooting of The Jungle Book, in his production office next to set. Months later, The Jungle Book was the #1 movie in the world and currently has a staggering 95% review average on Rotten Tomatoes. Long-Term Impact Trumps Short-Term Gross 'Thanks to video, and later DVD and laser disc, everybody had seen this film [Swingers], and it had become part of our culture. That’s when I learned that it’s not always the movie that does the best [financially] that has the most impact, or is the most rewarding, or does the most for your career, for that matter.' Another Reason to Meditate 'In the middle of [a meditation session], the idea for Chef hit me, and I let myself stop, which I don’t usually do, and I took out a pad. I scribbled down like eight pages of ideas and thoughts, [and then I] left it alone. If I look back on it, and read those pages, it really had 80% of the heavy lifting done, as far as what [Chef] was about, who was in it, who the characters were, what other movies to look at, what the tone was, what music I would have in it, what type of food he was making, the idea of the food truck, the Cuban sandwiches, Cuban music . . . so it all sort of grew out from that." -Tim Ferriss
"«Thoreau escribe: 'El trabajador realmente eficiente no tendrá la jornada repleta de trabajo," -Tim Ferriss
"5. No puedes hacer entrar en razón a alguien sobre algo que no ha razonado por sí mismo." -Tim Ferriss
"The information we gain that conflicts with our original assessment or conclusion, we conveniently ignore or dismiss, while the information that confirms our original decision makes us increasingly certain that our conclusion was correct." -Tim Ferriss
"If you throw low-due-diligence Hail Marys everywhere and justify it with 'they could be the next Uber!', you will almost certainly be killed by 1,000 slow-bleeding $25K paper cuts." -Tim Ferriss
"The Importance of Language on a Rainy Day 'One of the biggest mistakes that I observed in the first year of Jack’s life was parents who have unproductive language around weather being good or bad. Whenever it was raining, you’d hear moms, babysitters, dads say, ‘It’s bad weather. We can’t go out,’ or if it wasn’t, ‘It’s good weather. We can go out.’ That means that, somehow, we’re externally reliant on conditions being perfect in order to be able to go out and have a good time. So, Jack and I never missed a single storm, rain or snow, to go outside and romp in it. Maybe we missed one when he was sick. We’ve developed this language around how beautiful it is. Now, whenever it’s a rainy day, Jack says, ‘Look, Dada, it’s such a beautiful rainy day,’ and we go out and we play in it. I wanted him to have this internal locus of control—to not be reliant on external conditions being just so." -Tim Ferriss
"Crazy Is a Compliment: The Power of Zigging When Everyone Else Zags." -Tim Ferriss
"People think focus means saying yes to the thing you’ve got to focus on. But that’s not what it means at all. It means saying no to the hundred other good ideas that there are. You have to pick carefully. I’m actually as proud of the things we haven’t done as the things I have done. Innovation is saying no to 1,000 things.' –Steve Jobs Co-founder and former CEO of Apple" -Tim Ferriss
"I was back in the prison of all of the things that hold me back, but I could see that the door was locked from the inside." -Tim Ferriss
"Show up in every moment like you’re meant to be there, because your energy precedes anything you could possibly say." -Tim Ferriss
"Named must your fear be before banish it you can.' –Yoda Powerful Jedi master" -Tim Ferriss
"Do not seek to follow in the footsteps of the wise, instead, seek what they sought.' –Matsuo Bashō Japanese poet of the Edo period" -Tim Ferriss
"For podcasting: In the first 3 to 9 months, you should be honing your craft and putting out increasingly better work. 'Good content is the best SEO,' as Robert Scoble originally told me. You" -Tim Ferriss
"Think and Grow Rich, Who Moved My Cheese?, Blue Ocean Strategy, Invisible Selling Machine, The Richest Man in Babylon, and Genghis Khan and the Making of the Modern World. TF: That last Genghis Khan book has been recommended to me by several billionaires." -Tim Ferriss
"(GST, o «entrenamiento gimnástico de fuerza»)." -Tim Ferriss
"The fishing is best where the fewest go, and the collective insecurity of the world makes it easy for people to hit home runs while everyone else is aiming for base hits. There is just less competition for bigger goals. Doing big things begins with asking for them properly." -Tim Ferriss
"Álbum para «fluir»: «Luciano Essential Mix» (2009, Ibiza) interpretado por DeadMau5." -Tim Ferriss
"I learned that each character can be broken into components: far left, top, middle, etc. These LEGO pieces, referred to as radicals, form the building blocks from which all kanji are made." -Tim Ferriss
"Check e-mail twice per day, once at 12:00 noon or just prior to lunch, and again at 4:00 P.M. 12:00 P.M. and 4:00 P.M. are times that ensure you will have the most responses from previously sent e-mail. Never check e-mail first thing in the morning.12 Instead, complete your most important task before 11:00 A.M. to avoid using lunch or reading e-mail as a postponement excuse." -Tim Ferriss
"A true fan is defined as 'a fan who will buy anything you produce." -Tim Ferriss
"El ayuno vuelve las células cancerosas más sensibles a la quimioterapia, como ya se dijo, pero también ayuda a las células normales a soportar la toxicidad." -Tim Ferriss
"empiezas a hacer esto consigues redefinirte como persona capaz de influir en el mundo." -Tim Ferriss
"En esencia, los sistemas se pueden entender como si te plantearas: «¿Qué habilidades o relaciones duraderas puedo desarrollar?», frente a: «¿Qué meta a corto plazo puedo conseguir?»." -Tim Ferriss
"Pick the Right Audience to Suck in Front Of" -Tim Ferriss
"THE KEY TO having more time is doing less, and there are two paths to getting there, both of which should be used together: (1) Define a to-do list and (2) define a not-to-do list." -Tim Ferriss
"#5—Morning Pages or 5-Minute Journal (5 to 10 minutes)" -Tim Ferriss
"In the context of body redesign, there are two fundamental MEDs to keep in mind: To remove stored fat → do the least necessary to trigger a fat-loss cascade of specific hormones. To add muscle in small or large quantities → do the least necessary to trigger local (specific muscles) and systemic (hormonal2) growth mechanisms." -Tim Ferriss
"much more productive to focus on 'eat and train." -Tim Ferriss
"I love Toni Morrison’s Song of Solomon. Her writing style is incredibly poetic and complex. She doesn’t 'allow' any laziness in reading her work; so beyond the incredible story, I learned to take my time to absorb the characters, and to reread passages when there was so much to unpack. It was also the book I asked my late husband to read when he dropped his pickup line to get to know me better. Our first date was a book review—and clearly he passed with flying colors. Two months later, he presented me with a painting of his interpretation of the book as a birthday gift. I knew then that I wanted to marry him. Anyone who could take his time to read, comprehend, and interpret Toni Morrison’s work, based on my recommendation, was someone I wanted to spend significant time with. That experience taught me that when people care, they’ll go beyond the extra mile to understand you. So Toni Morrison helped me set a high bar." -Tim Ferriss
"The future is here. It’s just not widely distributed yet. —WILLIAM GIBSON, author of Neuromancer; coined term 'cyberspace' in 1984" -Tim Ferriss
"We are what we do repeatedly." -Tim Ferriss
"What Does It Feel Like? 'If you are depressed, you are living in the past. If you are anxious, you are living in the future. If you are at peace, you are living in the present.' —Lao Tzu" -Tim Ferriss
"Cuando tengas que optar entre dos cosas… elige ambas. 3.ª ley: Múltiples proyectos conducen a múltiples éxitos." -Tim Ferriss
"If you want an average, successful life, it doesn’t take much planning. Just stay out of trouble, go to school, and apply for jobs you might like. But if you want something extraordinary, you have two paths: 1) Become the best at one specific thing. 2) Become very good (top 25%) at two or more things." -Tim Ferriss
"What am I continuing to do myself that I’m not good at?' Improve it, eliminate it, or delegate it." -Tim Ferriss
"A man is rich in proportion to the number of things he can afford to let alone.' –Henry David Thoreau American essayist and philosopher, author of Walden 'What gets measured gets managed.' –Peter Drucker Considered 'the founder of modern management,' author of The Effective Executive 'Morality is simply the attitude we adopt towards people we personally dislike.' –Oscar Wilde Irish writer, author of The Picture of Dorian Gray" -Tim Ferriss
"I am a big believer that if you have a very clear vision of where you want to go, then the rest of it is much easier." -Tim Ferriss
"y lo único que haces de momento (Will de veinte años) es divagar y pensar." -Tim Ferriss
"Once you reach 0.5 mmol—millimolars, a concentration—you can consider yourself lightly 'in ketosis." -Tim Ferriss
"Focus on great for a few things and good enough for the rest. Perfection is a good ideal and direction to have, but recognize it for what it is: an impossible destination." -Tim Ferriss
"Interest and Energy Are Cyclical." -Tim Ferriss
"gadget roughly the size of a large camera tripod. I use this several times a week, when it’s too much" -Tim Ferriss
"The blog post I point people to the most is called ‘First, Ten,’ and it is a simple theory of marketing that says: tell ten people, show ten people, share it with ten people; ten people who already trust you and already like you. If they don’t tell anybody else, it’s not that good and you should start over. If they do tell other people, you’re on your way." -Tim Ferriss
"Sometimes, You Just Need a Vibrator Coach Sommer introduced me to a Russian medical massage specialist who recommended I use the plug-in (not cordless) model of the Hitachi Magic Wand on its high setting. I’ve never experienced such heights of ecstasy. Thanks, Vladmir! Just kidding. In this case, it’s for relaxing hypertonic muscles (i.e., muscles that are tense even though they shouldn’t be). Just place the wand on your muscle belly (not insertion points) for 20 to 30 seconds, which is often all it takes at the proper hertz. Tension headaches or a stiff neck? It’s great for relaxing the occipitals at the base of the skull. Warning: Having Hitachi Magic Wands lying out around your house can go terribly wrong—or terribly right. Good luck explaining your 'hypertonic muscles.' As one friend said to me, 'I think my wife has that same problem. . . .'   Gymnast Strong Unusual and Effective Bodyweight Exercises In less than eight weeks of following Coach Sommer’s protocols, I saw unbelievable improvement in areas I’d largely given up on. Try a few of my favorite exercises, and you’ll quickly realize that gymnasts use muscles you didn’t even know you had. QL Walk—An Unusual Warmup" -Tim Ferriss
"I am an old man and I have known a great many troubles, but most of them never happened.' —Mark Twain 'He who suffers before it is necessary suffers more than is necessary.' —Seneca" -Tim Ferriss
"In Cold Blood by Truman Capote." -Tim Ferriss
"Think for yourself while being radically open-minded.' Ray Dalio" -Tim Ferriss
"«Un estudio ha revelado que una sesión de sauna de treinta minutos dos veces por semana durante tres semanas después de realizar ejercicio físico aumentó en un 32 por ciento el tiempo que podían correr los participantes en el estudio antes de llegar a la extenuación, tomando como referencia los datos de partida. El incremento del 32 por ciento en resistencia de carrera detectado mediante este estudio en concreto fue acompañado por un aumento del 7,1 por ciento en volumen plasmático y del 3,5 por ciento en la cantidad de glóbulos rojos.»" -Tim Ferriss
"David Deutsch’s The Beginning of Infinity. It’s a remarkable argument for the power of knowledge—as not just a human capability but as a force that shapes the universe." -Tim Ferriss
"Retirement planning is like life insurance. It should be viewed as nothing more than a hedge against the absolute worst-case scenario: in this case, becoming physically incapable of working and needing a reservoir of capital to survive." -Tim Ferriss
"Rissa Kerguelen by F. M. Busby." -Tim Ferriss
"There is no universal path to success." -Tim Ferriss
"Buffett le dijo: «Invertir en ti es la inversión más importante que puedes hacer en la vida… Nunca habrá una inversión financiera comparable, porque si desarrollas más destreza, más capacidad, eso será lo que realmente te dará la libertad económica…" -Tim Ferriss
"Audiogon Seth is an audiophile. He particularly enjoys focusing on analog and, in many ways, anachronistic equipment still made by hand. Audiogon is a website 'where you can find people who buy things new and sell them 6 months later in perfect condition." -Tim Ferriss
"Top academic institutions are wonderful, but there are unrecognized benefits to not coming out of one. Grads from top schools are funneled into high-income 80-hour-per-week jobs, and 15–30 years of soul-crushing work has been accepted as the default path." -Tim Ferriss
"How is it different and why should I buy it? ONE sentence or phrase, folks. Apple did an excellent job of this with the iPod. Instead of using the usual industry jargon with GB, bandwidth, and so forth, they simply said, '1,000 songs in your pocket." -Tim Ferriss
"If you don't appreciate what you have now, you'll never appreciate what you get later." -Tim Ferriss
"It’s good not to follow the herd. Go the other way. If everyone’s going that way, you go this other way. You’re gonna stumble, but you’re also gonna stumble upon an idea no one came up with. . . ." -Tim Ferriss
"Put the Big Stones in First" -Tim Ferriss
"In my case, I use spam filters, autoresponders with FAQs, and automatic forwarding to outsourcers to limit my e-mail obligation to 10–20 e-mail responses per week. It takes me 30 minutes per week because I used systems—elimination and automation—to make it so." -Tim Ferriss
"What do you need right now in order to be happy? Do you need anything other than what is happening right now in order to be happy?' That orients me right away toward what I care about." -Tim Ferriss
"Make this trade a habit. Let the small bad things happen and make the big good things happen." -Tim Ferriss
"Concéntrate en ser productivo, no en estar ocupado." -Tim Ferriss
"First, you could define failing simply as having a losing outcome, like losing a hand. But one of the lessons poker teaches you is that this is an unproductive way to define failure because you can win a hand by making very poor decisions and lose a hand while making very good decisions." -Tim Ferriss
"Lo que importa es si el trabajo te ofrece mucha diversidad," -Tim Ferriss
"a Barnes and Noble with no goal in particular, I chance upon a book about suicide. It’s right there in front of me on a display table. Perhaps this is the 'miracle'? I sit down and read the entire book, taking copious notes into a journal, including other books listed in the bibliography." -Tim Ferriss
"What information consumes is rather obvious: it consumes the attention of its recipients. Hence, a wealth of information creates a poverty of attention and a need to allocate that attention efficiently among the overabundance of information sources that might consume it. —HERBERT SIMON, recipient of Nobel Memorial Prize in Economics8 and the A.M. Turing Award, the 'Nobel Prize of Computer Science" -Tim Ferriss
"What bullshit excuses do you have for not going after whatever it is that you want? Please," -Tim Ferriss
"looking for opportunities for someone other than yourself." -Tim Ferriss
"Top down (macro thinking) means I consider the big-picture issues before the small when making decisions, and these [big-picture] issues dominate my preferences. It does not mean I ignore the small issues, as they are necessary but not dominant." -Tim Ferriss
"I didn’t survive, I prepared.' Nelson Mandela’s answer when Tony asked him, 'Sir, how did you survive all those years in prison?" -Tim Ferriss
"Los libros están para mostrar tu corazón, para mostrar tu alma, y para decirle a cada uno de tus seguidores, de tus lectores: No estás solo.»" -Tim Ferriss
"This being human is a guest house. Every morning a new arrival. A joy, a depression, a meanness, Some momentary awareness comes as an unexpected visitor. Welcome and entertain them all! . . . The dark thought, the shame, the malice, meet them at the door laughing, and invite them in. Be grateful for whoever comes, because each has been sent as a guide from beyond. —Rumi" -Tim Ferriss
"On Creating a 'Red Team' STAN: 'The concept of ‘red team’ is designed to test a plan. What happens is, as you develop a plan—you’ve got a problem and you develop a way to solve that problem—you fall in love with it. You start to dismiss the shortcomings of it, simply because, I think, that’s the way the mind works. . . . Sometimes you’re actually skipping over real challenges to it, or vulnerabilities in it, because you just want it to work. As we describe it, sometimes a plan can end up being a string of miracles, and that’s not a real solid plan. So red teaming is: You take people who aren’t wedded to the plan and [ask them,] ‘How would you disrupt this plan or how would you defeat this plan?’ If you have a very thoughtful red team, you’ll produce stunning results." -Tim Ferriss
"Prepara una taza de té (a mí me gusta el pu-erh) y siéntate" -Tim Ferriss
"Newt Gingrich is one of the most successful political leaders of our time. Yes, we disagreed with virtually everything he did, but this is a book about strategy, not ideology. And we’ve got to give Newt his due. His strategic ability—his relentless focus on capturing the House of Representatives for the Republicans—led to one of the biggest political landslides in American history. Now that he’s in the private sector, Newt uses a brilliant illustration to explain the need to focus on the big things and let the little stuff slide: the analogy of the field mice and the antelope. A lion is fully capable of capturing, killing, and eating a field mouse. But it turns out that the energy required to do so exceeds the caloric content of the mouse itself. So a lion that spent its day hunting and eating field mice would slowly starve to death. A lion can’t live on field mice. A lion needs antelope. Antelope are big animals. They take more speed and strength to capture and kill, and once killed, they provide a feast for the lion and her pride. A lion can live a long and happy life on a diet of antelope. The distinction is important. Are you spending all your time and exhausting all your energy catching field mice? In the short term it might give you a nice, rewarding feeling. But in the long run you’re going to die. So ask yourself at the end of the day, 'Did I spend today chasing mice or hunting antelope?' Another way I often approach this is to look at my to-do list and ask: 'Which one of these, if done, would render all the rest either easier or completely irrelevant?" -Tim Ferriss
"The first is to push yourself harder than you believe you’re capable of. You’ll find new depth inside yourself. The second is to put yourself in groups who share difficulties, discomfort. We used to call it ‘shared privation.’ You’ll find that when you have been through that kind of difficult environment, that you feel more strongly about that which you’re committed to. And finally, create some fear and make individuals overcome it." -Tim Ferriss
"Many people don’t even know what having a normal mood feels like; but optimism, faith, courage, strength, [and] personal empowerment are some of its qualities." -Tim Ferriss
"The most important thing I’ve learned about nutrition is you need to deserve your carbs" -Tim Ferriss
"The reasonable man adapts himself to the world; the unreasonable one persists in trying to adapt the world to himself. Therefore all progress depends on the unreasonable man.' –George Bernard Shaw" -Tim Ferriss
"When I’m old, how much would I be willing to pay to travel back in time and relive the moment that I’m experiencing right now?" -Tim Ferriss
"Every morning in Africa, a gazelle wakes up. It knows it must move faster than the lion or it won’t survive. Every morning, a lion wakes up, and it knows it must move faster than the slowest gazelle or it will starve. It doesn’t matter if you’re the lion or the gazelle. When the sun comes up, you’d better be moving." -Tim Ferriss
"You should set up your life so that it is as comfortable and happy as possible—and so that it accommodates your creative work." -Tim Ferriss
"cutre," -Tim Ferriss
"Fat-loss can produce transient elevated triglycerides (as it did with my dad, who lost 70+ pounds of fat), and I had lost substantial bodyfat in the preceding 21 days." -Tim Ferriss
"1Password o LastPass" -Tim Ferriss
"Is it really necessary to work like a slave to live like a millionaire?" -Tim Ferriss
"Jayber Crowe (by Wendell Berry)" -Tim Ferriss
"What might you do to accomplish your 10-year goals in the next 6 months, if you had a gun against your head?" -Tim Ferriss
"Da igual cuánta gente no te entienda. Lo importante es cuánta gente sí lo hace." -Tim Ferriss
"My suggestion is, whenever possible, ask yourself: What’s the smallest possible footprint I can get away with? What is the smallest possible project that is worth my time? What is the smallest group of people who I could make a difference for, or to? Because smallest is achievable. Smallest feels risky. Because if you pick smallest and you fail, now you’ve really screwed up." -Tim Ferriss
"y ambos son razones horribles para hacer las cosas»." -Tim Ferriss
"Mysteries are not necessarily miracles." -Tim Ferriss
"so many bad ideas that lead to authoritarian consequences begin with good intentions." -Tim Ferriss
"La especialización es para los insectos" -Tim Ferriss
"Here’s why I think it seems to work, and there are several possibilities." -Tim Ferriss
"Henry Ford once said, referring to his Model-T, the bestselling car of all time,fn7 'The customer can have any color he wants, so long as it’s black.' He understood something that businesspeople seem to have forgotten: Serving the customer ('customer service') is not becoming a personal concierge and catering to their every whim and want. Customer service is providing an excellent product at an acceptable price and solving legitimate problems (lost packages, replacements, refunds, etc.) in the fastest manner possible. That’s it." -Tim Ferriss
"I’m sorry to hear that. You know, I’ve been taking your insults for a while now, and it’s unfortunate that it seems we won’t be able to do business anymore. I’d recommend you take a good look at where this unhappiness and anger is actually coming from. In any case, I wish you well. If you would like to order product, we’ll be happy to supply it, but only if you can conduct yourself without profanity and unnecessary insults. You have our fax number. All the best and have a nice day." -Tim Ferriss
"Cuando terminas de sentir una emoción (alegría, enfado, tristeza o cualquier otra) notas que se ha acabado. Se fue." -Tim Ferriss
"«La productividad es para los robots. Si los humanos van a ser realmente buenos en algo será haciendo preguntas, siendo creativos y teniendo experiencias.»" -Tim Ferriss
"Let’s assume we have 10 goals and we achieve them—what is the desired outcome that makes all the effort worthwhile? The most common response is what I also would have suggested five years ago: happiness. I no longer believe this is a good answer. Happiness can be bought with a bottle of wine and has become ambiguous through overuse. There is a more precise alternative that reflects what I believe the actual objective is. Bear with me. What is the opposite of happiness? Sadness? No. Just as love and hate are two sides of the same coin, so are happiness and sadness. Crying out of happiness is a perfect illustration of this. The opposite of love is indifference, and the opposite of happiness is—here’s the clincher—boredom. Excitement is the more practical synonym for happiness, and it is precisely what you should strive to chase. It is the cure-all. When people suggest you follow your 'passion' or your 'bliss,' I propose that they are, in fact, referring to the same singular concept: excitement. This brings us full circle. The question you should be asking isn’t, 'What do I want?' or 'What are my goals?' but 'What would excite me?" -Tim Ferriss
"How do I become less competitive in order that I can become more successful?" -Tim Ferriss
"Circulation, de Beats Antique y Black Out the Sun, de Sevendust, dependiendo de si necesito fluir o activarme." -Tim Ferriss
"Puertas de fuego (Grijalbo Mondadori, 1999), de Steven Pressfield." -Tim Ferriss
"Celebrate the childlike mind.' Steve Jurvetson" -Tim Ferriss
"Hydrolyzed gelatin + beet root powder:" -Tim Ferriss
"Surely You’re Joking, Mr. Feynman! by Richard P. Feynman" -Tim Ferriss
"Jack Canfield quote, 'Everything you want is on the other side of fear." -Tim Ferriss
"The crisis with all creative work is that it requires us to trust that generative voice inside us while also silencing the negative ones. It’s so easy to mix them all up and end up quietly abandoning our ambitions." -Tim Ferriss
"compelled to take meetings he didn’t want. There were no more early-morning coffee dates and late-night social dinners he didn’t want to attend. Rather, Chris invited specific" -Tim Ferriss
"Earn with your mind, not your time." -Tim Ferriss
"Ser capaz de abandonar lo que no funciona es consustancial a ser un ganador." -Tim Ferriss
"There is more freedom to be gained from practicing poverty than chasing wealth. Suffer a little regularly and you often cease to suffer." -Tim Ferriss
"When in Doubt, Scratch Your Own Itch 'When Kurt Vonnegut wrote ‘Write to please just one person,’ what he was really saying was write for yourself. Don’t try to please anyone but yourself. . . . The second you start doing it for an audience, you’ve lost the long game because creating something that is rewarding and sustainable over the long run requires, most of all, keeping yourself excited about it. . . . Trying to predict what [an audience will] be interested in and kind of pretzeling yourself to fit those expectations, you soon begin to begrudge it and become embittered—and it begins to show in the work. It always, always shows in the work when you resent it. And there’s really nothing less pleasurable to read than embittered writing.' TF:" -Tim Ferriss
"I have come to learn that part of the business strategy is to solve the simplest, easiest, and most valuable problem. And actually, in fact, part of doing strategy is to solve the easiest problem, so part of the reason why you work on software and bits is that atoms [physical products] are actually very difficult." -Tim Ferriss
"Ésa es la máxima responsabilidad. Asúmela por completo»." -Tim Ferriss
"What was the 'grail'? 25 mg of acarbose (¼ pill) with food. He learned this trick from Peter Attia (page 59), who I introduced him to." -Tim Ferriss
"The next Bill Gates will not build an operating system. The next Larry Page or Sergey Brin won’t make a search engine. And the next Mark Zuckerberg won’t create a social network. If you are copying these guys, you aren’t learning from them." -Tim Ferriss
"When people say: ‘You do so many things. You’re a musician, you’re a painter, you’re a composer, you’re a cinematographer, you’re the editor. You do so many different things.’ I go, ‘No, I only do one thing. I live a creative life. When you put creativity in everything, everything becomes available to you.’ ." -Tim Ferriss
"La persona que es desatenta en la luna de miel (al principio) irá a peor en el futuro." -Tim Ferriss
"Because I’m in control of my time. I’m on top of it. ‘Busy,’ to me, seems to imply ‘out of control.’ Like, ‘Oh my God, I’m so busy. I don’t have any time for this shit!’ To me, that sounds like a person who’s got no control over their life." -Tim Ferriss
"To laugh often and much, to win the respect of intelligent people and the affection of children . . . to leave the world a bit better . . . to know even one life has breathed easier because you lived. This is to have succeeded.'—Ralph Waldo Emerson 'Some men see things as they are and say ‘why?’ I dream of things that never were and say ‘why not?’'—Robert Kennedy 'Friendship is born at the moment when one person says to another: ‘What? You too? I thought I was the only one.’'—C. S. Lewis 'It is impossible to live without failing at something, unless you live so cautiously that you might as well not have lived at all—in which case you fail by default.'—J. K. Rowling" -Tim Ferriss
"People can dislike you—and you often sell more by offending some—but they should never misunderstand you." -Tim Ferriss
"«Si dejas que el aprendizaje te lleve al conocimiento, te haces memo. Si dejas que el aprendizaje te lleve a la acción, te haces rico»." -Tim Ferriss
"This moment in history demands that we put purpose before profit, that we take more seriously the fact that we have the tools, the imagination, and the resources to solve our toughest problems. So it is time to get on with it." -Tim Ferriss
"Don’t panic." -Tim Ferriss
"You must seize opportunities when they present themselves, not when they are convenient or obvious. The only way to cultivate your own luck is to be more flexible (you’ll need to give up something for the right opportunity), humble (timing is out of your control), and gracious (when you see it, seize it!). Life’s greatest opportunities run on their own schedule, not yours." -Tim Ferriss
"E-mail is the last thing people let go of. Fortune 500 CEOs, best-selling authors, celebrities—I know dozens of top performers who delegate everything but e-mail, which they latch onto as something only they can do. 'No one can check my e-mail for me' is the unquestioned assumption, or 'I answer every e-mail I receive' is the unquestioned bragging right that keeps them in front of a computer for 8–12 hours at a stretch. It’s not fun, and it keeps them from higher-impact or more rewarding activities." -Tim Ferriss
"The basis for the energy drink Red Bull came from a tonic in Thailand, and the Smurfs were brought from Belgium. Pokémon came from the land of Honda. The band KISS made millions in record and concert sales, but the real profit has been in licensing—granting others the right to produce hundreds of products with their name and image in exchange for a percentage of sales." -Tim Ferriss
"When you feel overwhelmed or unfocused, what do you do? Whenever I feel overwhelmed, I complain to my wife about it. After listening patiently for about 30 seconds, she generally tells me to STFU. Then I meditate or work out." -Tim Ferriss
"I think we go about desiring things all day long, and then wondering why we’re unhappy." -Tim Ferriss
"«Soy un viejo y he conocido innumerables desdichas, pero la mayoría nunca sucedieron.» MARK TWAIN" -Tim Ferriss
"The things you own end up owning you.' –Chuck Palahniuk American author, best known for Fight Club" -Tim Ferriss
"what all of this comes down to is whether you are on offense or defense. I" -Tim Ferriss
"We were trying to catch a flight to Puerto Rico, but the local Puerto Rican scheduled flight was canceled. The airport terminal was full of stranded passengers. I made a few calls to charter companies, and agreed to charter a plane for $2,000 to Puerto Rico. I divided the price by the number of seats, borrowed a blackboard, and wrote virgin airways: $39 single flight to puerto rico. I walked around the airport terminal and soon filled every seat on the charter plane. As we landed in Puerto Rico, a passenger turned to me and said: ‘Virgin Airways isn’t too bad—smarten up the service a little and you could be in business." -Tim Ferriss
"Franklin saw the constant benefit in making other people look good and letting them take credit for your ideas." -Tim Ferriss
"Dani declared that courage was more important than confidence. When you are operating out of courage, you are saying that no matter how you feel about yourself or your opportunities or the outcome, you are going to take a risk and take a step toward what you want." -Tim Ferriss
"Once you have enough for beans and rice and taking care of your family and a few other things, money is a story. You can tell yourself any story you want about money, and it’s better to tell yourself a story about money that you can happily live with." -Tim Ferriss
"There is value in exercise, though, and I think that the most important type of exercise, especially in terms of bang for your buck, is going to be really high-intensity, heavy strength training. Strength training aids everything from glucose disposal and metabolic health to mitochondrial density and orthopedic stability. That last one might not mean much when you’re a 30-something young buck, but when you’re in your 70s, that’s the difference between a broken hip and a walk in the park." -Tim Ferriss
"In negotiation, he who cares the least wins.' He could ignore bit parts because he had cash flow from his real estate investments." -Tim Ferriss
"HeartMath Inner Balance biofeedback monitor. It detects your heart’s minutest rhythms and sends a graph to your smartphone, facilitating HRV training." -Tim Ferriss
"What advice would you give to a smart, driven college student about to enter the 'real world'? The seminal change in the business from then to now is that a young person should view the career pyramid differently rather than traditionally. Put the point at the bottom where you are now (at the start of your career) and conceive your future as an expanding opportunity horizon where you can move laterally across the spectrum in search of an ever-widening set of career opportunities. Reinvent yourself regularly. See your world as an ever-increasing set of realities and seize the day." -Tim Ferriss
"the most important thing was that they have an answer. A) It shows the courage to be able to address it, and B) it shows self-awareness that ‘I might be top peer-rated and have this great career, but there’s somebody out there, and here’s what they’d probably say. . . .’ They’d say I was self-serving at one time, or I appear too good on paper, or I’m lazy on these types of physical training, or whatever the case may be. Show me that, if you identify it, you’re working on it. I don’t care what you think about it. I just want to know that you’re aware of how other people view you." -Tim Ferriss
"having" -Tim Ferriss
"Bliss is the highest peak of what brings you joy." -Tim Ferriss
"Life will go faster than you know. It will be tempting to live a life that impresses others. But this is the wrong path. The right path is to know that life is short, every day is a gift, and you have certain gifts. Happiness is about understanding that the gift of life should be honored every day by offering your gifts to the world. Don’t let yourself define what matters by the dogma of other people’s thoughts. And even more important, don’t let the thoughts of self-doubt and chattering self-criticism in your own mind slow you down. You will likely be your own worst critic. Be kind to yourself in your own mind. Let your mind show you the same kindness that you aspire to show others." -Tim Ferriss
"«Quizá la acción no traiga siempre consigo la felicidad, pero no hay felicidad sin acción.» BENJAMIN DISRAELI, ex primer ministro británico" -Tim Ferriss
"Kegenix: con un sabor más parecido al ácido Kool-Aid" -Tim Ferriss
"I needed to get out of my inbox and back to my own to-do list." -Tim Ferriss
"In any situation in life, you only have three options. You always have three options. You can change it, you can accept it, or you can leave it. What" -Tim Ferriss
"Ha dicho usted todas esas barbaridades sobre las mujeres?'." -Tim Ferriss
"Don’t call it a problem if you can avoid it." -Tim Ferriss
"Those of us who are lucky enough to live in a world where we have enough and we have a roof and we have food—we find ourselves caught in this cycle of keeping track of the wrong things. Keeping track of how many times we’ve been rejected. Keeping track of how many times it didn’t work. Keeping track of all the times someone has broken our heart or double-crossed us or let us down. Of course, we can keep track of those things, but why? Why keep track of them? Are they making us better? 'Wouldn’t it make more sense to keep track of the other stuff? To keep track of all the times it worked? All the times we took a risk? All the times we were able to brighten someone else’s day? When we start doing that, we can redefine ourselves as people who are able to make an impact on the world. It took me a bunch of cycles to figure out that the narrative was up to me. 'If a narrative isn’t working, well then, really, why are you using it? The narrative isn’t done to you; the narrative is something that you choose. Once" -Tim Ferriss
"Nothing you face today will be harder than what you just did." -Tim Ferriss
"What are domino foods? Foods that could be acceptable if humans had strict portion control, but that are disallowed because practically none of us do. Common domino foods include: Chickpeas Peanut butter Salted cashews Alcohol Domino triggers aren’t limited to food. For some people, if they play 15 minutes of World of Warcraft, they’ll play 15 hours. It’s 0 or 15 hours." -Tim Ferriss
"Honor those who seek the truth, beware of those who’ve found it’ [adapted from Voltaire]. A reminder that the path never ends and that absolutely nobody has this shit figured out." -Tim Ferriss
"Last but not least, much of what I recommend will seem impossible and even offensive to basic common sense—I expect that. Resolve now to test the concepts as an exercise in lateral thinking. If you try it, you’ll see just how deep the rabbit hole goes, and you won’t ever go back." -Tim Ferriss
"Maybe appearing on CNN for two minutes will make your grandmother proud, but if the travel and the preparation and the logistics eat up 20 hours of your time so that your writing suffers [and] you will ultimately not be proud of the result, then maybe it’s not worth it. Often I think the paradox is that accepting the requests you receive is at the expense of the quality of the very work—the reason for those requests in the first place—and that’s what you always have to protect.' TF: This is precisely why I have stopped nearly all investing, speaking engagements, and interviews. Maria shared how famed neurologist and writer Oliver Sacks (RIP) used to put a 'piece of paper on the wall by his desk that simply said, in all caps, ‘NO!’ with an exclamation point. It was to remind himself to decline invitations that took away from his writing time." -Tim Ferriss
"Answer me this: would you work harder to earn $100 or avoid losing $100? The smiley optimist says the former, but if research from the Center for Experimental Social Science at New York University is any indication, fear of loss is the home-run winner. Experimental groups given $15 and then told the $15 would be rescinded if they lost a subsequent auction routinely overbid the most. Groups offered $15 if they won weren’t nearly as 'committed." -Tim Ferriss
"The concierge was one of only 15 double golden key (Clef d’Or) concierges in India, and he knew that sometimes having no experience is a huge advantage. Age doesn’t matter; an open mind does." -Tim Ferriss
"Morality is simply the attitude we adopt toward people we personally dislike. —OSCAR WILDE" -Tim Ferriss
"Woe unto he who 'microdoses' and gets hit like a freight train while checking in luggage at an airport" -Tim Ferriss
"had people around me who’d say things like, ‘Oh, a flower, nice.’ A little part of me was thinking, ‘You absolute loser. You’ve taken time to appreciate a flower? Do you not have bigger plans? I mean, this the limit of your ambition?’ and when life’s knocked you around a bit and when you’ve seen a few things, and time has happened and you’ve got some years under your belt, you start to think more highly of modest things like flowers and a pretty sky, or just a morning where nothing’s wrong and everyone’s been pretty nice to everyone else. . . . Fortune can do anything with us. We are very fragile creatures. You only need to tap us or hit us in slightly the wrong place. . . . You only have to push us a little bit, and we crack very easily, whether that’s the pressure of disgrace or physical illness, financial pressure, etc. It doesn’t take very much. So, we do have to appreciate every day that goes by without a major disaster." -Tim Ferriss
"Levántate al menos una hora antes de tener que sentarte ante la pantalla del ordenador. El correo electrónico aniquila la mente." -Tim Ferriss
"Real work and real satisfaction come from the opposite of what the web provides. They come from going deep into something" -Tim Ferriss
"To do or not to do? To try or not to try? Most people will vote no, whether they consider themselves brave or not. Uncertainty and the prospect of failure can be very scary noises in the shadows. Most people will choose unhappiness over uncertainty" -Tim Ferriss
"Nuestro objetivo no es crear un negocio lo más grande posible, sino un negocio que nos moleste lo menos posible." -Tim Ferriss
"Would it work? I had no idea, but I did know one thing: If the easy approach failed, the unending-labor-in-the-salt-mines approach was always waiting in the wings." -Tim Ferriss
"Weirdness is why we adore our friends…. Weirdness is what bonds us to our colleagues. Weirdness is what sets us apart, gets us hired. Be your unapologetically weird self. In fact, being weird may even find you the ultimate happiness." -Tim Ferriss
"What we fear doing most is usually what we most need to do. As I have heard said, a person’s success in life can usually be measured by the number of uncomfortable conversations he or she is willing to have. Resolve to do one thing every day that you fear." -Tim Ferriss
"There are actually 10 times more bacterial cells in your body than human cells: 100 trillion of them to 10 trillion of you." -Tim Ferriss
"Everybody’s impatient at a macro, and just so patient at a micro, wasting your days worrying about years. I’m not worried about my years, because I’m squeezing the fuck out of my seconds, let alone my days. It’s going to work out." -Tim Ferriss
"he is the author of Anything You Want, a collection of short life lessons that I’ve read at least a dozen times." -Tim Ferriss
"Annie regularly shares her observations on the science of smart decision-making (applied to much more than poker) on her blog, Annie’s Analysis," -Tim Ferriss
"To laugh often and much, to win the respect of intelligent people and the affection of children . . . to leave the world a bit better . . . to know even one life has breathed easier because you lived. This is to have succeeded.'—Ralph Waldo Emerson" -Tim Ferriss
"I also figured out that I could use my workouts as a form of meditation because I concentrate so much on the muscle, I have my mind inside the bicep when I do my curls. I have my mind inside the pectoral muscles when I do my bench press. I’m really inside, and it’s like I gain a form of meditation, because you have no chance of thinking or concentrating on anything else at that time." -Tim Ferriss
"If you’re running around like a chicken with its head cut off and assign your VA to do that for you, it doesn’t improve the order of the universe." -Tim Ferriss
"Destinados al colectivo masculino con buen manejo de las tecnologías de entre veinticinco y cuarenta años de edad residentes en ciudades grandes de Estados Unidos, como San Francisco, Nueva York, Chicago, Los Ángeles, etc. (que me permitieran acelerar el crecimiento/la escalada con mi público)." -Tim Ferriss
"«El hombre razonable se adapta al mundo; el irrazonable persiste en intentar adaptar el mundo a él. Por consiguiente, todo progreso depende del hombre irrazonable.» GEORGE BERNARD SHAW, Máximas para revolucionarios" -Tim Ferriss
"«First Friday». Ha estudiado todo tipo de alcohol imaginable para esos eventos, y el que más le gusta en la actualidad es el whisky de centeno. El que me recomendó durante nuestra conversación fue el Whistle Pig. «Los whiskies de centeno son interesantes porque en realidad eran la variedad imperante de whisky estadounidense antes de la Ley Seca, porque la industria estaba más al norte (en Pensilvania, Vermont, Nueva York, etc.), donde se hacía realmente bien. Pero después, con la prohibición y el desplazamiento hacia el sur con el trigo, estalló el consumo del bourbon, que hoy aún sigue siendo, con mucho, el predominante. Pero el whisky de centeno está volviendo, y me encanta.»" -Tim Ferriss
"True fans are not only the direct source of your income, but also your chief marketing force for the ordinary fans. Fans," -Tim Ferriss
"Yet change is usually stressful, and after a certain age, most people don’t like to change. When you are 16, your entire life is change, whether you like it or not. Your body is changing, your mind is changing, your relationships are changing—everything is in flux. You are busy inventing yourself. By the time you are 40, you don’t want change. You want stability. But in the twenty-first century, you won’t be able to enjoy that luxury. If you try to hold on to some stable identity, some stable job, some stable worldview, you will be left behind, and the world will fly by you. So people will need to be extremely resilient and emotionally balanced to sail through this never-ending storm, and to deal with very high levels of stress. The problem is that it is very hard to teach emotional intelligence and resilience. It is not something you can learn by reading a book or listening to a lecture. The current educational model, devised during the 19th century Industrial Revolution, is bankrupt. But so far we haven’t created a viable alternative. So don’t trust the adults too much. In the past, it was a safe bet to trust adults, because they knew the world quite well, and the world changed slowly. But the 21st century is going to be different. Whatever the adults have learned about economics, politics, or relationships may be outdated. Similarly, don’t trust technology too much. You must make technology serve you, instead of you serving it. If you aren’t careful, technology will start dictating your aims and enslaving you to its agenda. So you have no choice but to really get to know yourself better. Know who you are and what you really want from life. This is, of course, the oldest advice in the book: know thyself. But this advice has never been more urgent than in the 21st century. Because now you have competition. Google, Facebook, Amazon, and the government are all relying on big data and machine learning to get to know you better and better. We are not living in the era of hacking computers—we are living in the era of hacking humans. Once the corporations and governments know you better than you know yourself, they could control and manipulate you and you won’t even realize it. So if you want to stay in the game, you have to run faster than Google. Good luck!" -Tim Ferriss
"A man is rich in proportion to the number of things he can afford to let alone. —HENRY DAVID THOREAU," -Tim Ferriss
"The Magic of Thinking Big (192 pages) BY DAVID SCHWARTZ" -Tim Ferriss
"That’s not a bug. It’s a feature!" -Tim Ferriss
"Cohen P, Longo VD. 'Fasting and cancer treatment in humans: A case series report.' Aging (Albany NY) 1.12 (2009): 988–1007. Dorff TB, Groshen S, Garcia A, Shah M, Tsao-Wei D, Pham H, Cheng CW, Brandhorst S, Cohen P, Wei M, Longo V, Quinn DI. 'Safety" -Tim Ferriss
"I have become better at saying no to things and people (including friends and family) that drain my energy. This isn’t easy, especially if you are a people-pleaser." -Tim Ferriss
"know that the only reason you’re here on this planet is to follow your star and do what the Muse" -Tim Ferriss
"Everyone thinks of changing the world, but no one thinks of changing himself.' –Leo Tolstoy" -Tim Ferriss
"The War of Art by Steven Pressfield: 'Also hard to find on audio. I find Steve’s voice to be fascinating, and even before I knew him, I was fascinated by listening to him speak his own work. The War of Art is one of those books, at least for me when I finally was exposed to it, I said, ‘Why wasn’t I informed? Why did it take this long for this book to land on my desk?’ . . . You need to be clear with yourself about what you are afraid of, why you are afraid, and whether you care enough to dance with that fear because it will never go away." -Tim Ferriss
"No, no lo estoy'. Porque tengo mi tiempo bajo control. Estoy por encima de él. Me da la impresión de que 'ocupado' implica 'fuera de control'. Como: 'Oh, Dios mío, estoy tan ocupado. ¡No tengo tiempo para esta mierda!'. A mí me suena a que esa persona no gobierna el timón de su vida.»" -Tim Ferriss
"Don’t Be a Donkey TIM: 'What advice would you give to your 30-year-old self?' DEREK: 'Don’t be a donkey.' TIM: 'And what does that mean?' DEREK: 'Well, I meet a lot of 30-year-olds who are trying to pursue many different directions at once, but not making progress in any, right? They get frustrated that the world wants them to pick one thing, because they want to do them all: ‘Why do I have to choose? I don’t know what to choose!’ But the problem is, if you’re thinking short-term, then [you act as though] if you don’t do them all this week, they won’t happen. The solution is to think long-term. To realize that you can do one of these things for a few years, and then do another one for a few years, and then another. You’ve probably heard the fable, I think it’s ‘Buridan’s ass,’ about a donkey who is standing halfway between a pile of hay and a bucket of water. He just keeps looking left to the hay, and right to the water, trying to decide. Hay or water, hay or water? He’s unable to decide, so he eventually falls over and dies of both hunger and thirst. A donkey can’t think of the future. If he did, he’d realize he could clearly go first to drink the water, then go eat the hay. 'So, my advice to my 30-year-old self is, don’t be a donkey. You can do everything you want to do. You just need foresight and patience." -Tim Ferriss
"Lo diferente es mejor cuando es más efectivo o más divertido. Si todo el mundo plantea o resuelve un problema de una determinada manera con resultados deficientes, es hora de preguntarse: ¿qué pasaría si hiciera lo contrario? No sigas un modelo que no funcione. Si la receta es una porquería, no importa lo buen cocinero que seas." -Tim Ferriss
"A lot of time was wasted, a lot of energy was wasted, being worried." -Tim Ferriss
"Steven Pinker: anything. He’s one of the clearest thinkers and communicators of our time. Among many other things, he convinced me that I could never understand myself without understanding how humans evolved." -Tim Ferriss
"This is very similar to Derek Sivers’s (page 184) 'Don’t be a donkey' rule. In a world of distraction, single-tasking is a superpower." -Tim Ferriss
"PROTOCOL #1: LONG-TERM AND SUSTAINED Fermented cod liver oil + vitamin-rich butter fat—2 capsules upon waking and before bed Vitamin D3—3,000–5,000 IU upon waking and before bed (6,000–10,000 IU per day), until you reach blood levels of 55 ng/mL. Short ice baths and/or cold showers—10 minutes each, upon waking and right before bed Brazil nuts—3 nuts upon waking, 3 nuts before bed (see important footnote).15 PROTOCOL #2: SHORT-TERM AND FUN 'NITRO BOOST' 20–24 Hours Prior to Sex Eat at least 800 milligrams of cholesterol (example: four or more large whole eggs or egg yolks) within three hours of bedtime, the night before you want to have incredible sex. The Wolverine intro to this chapter was partially thanks to two ¾-pound rib-eye steaks the night before, but it’s easier to stomach hard-boiled eggs. Why before bed? Testosterone is derived from cholesterol, which is primarily produced at night during sleep (between midnight and 4:00–6:00 A.M.). Four Hours Prior to Sex 4 Brazil nuts 20 raw almonds 2 capsules of the above-mentioned fermented cod/butter combination" -Tim Ferriss
"We break commitments to ourselves with embarrassing regularity. How can someone trying to lose weight binge on an entire pint of ice cream before bed? How can even the most disciplined of executives fail to make 30 minutes of time per week for exercise? How can someone whose marriage depends on quitting smoking pick up a cigarette? Simple: logic fails. If you were to summarize the last 100 years of behavioral psychology in two words, that would be the takeaway. Fortunately, knowing this, it is possible to engineer compliance. Pulling from both new and often-neglected data, including photographic research and auctions, there are four principles of failure-proofing behavior. Think of them as insurance against the weaknesses of human nature—your weaknesses, my weaknesses, our weaknesses: 1. Make it conscious. 2. Make it a game. 3. Make it competitive. 4. Make it small and temporary." -Tim Ferriss
"SHORTHAND Sauté 1 onion, 1T oil till soft; + ½lb ground chicken, 1T oil till brown, + 1lb liver, 2T H2O 6min. Blend meat, 2T pan juices, 4 anchovies, 4 cloves garlic, 4T ghee. Chill." -Tim Ferriss
"when you’re very competitive, you get good at the thing you’re competing with people on. But it comes at the expense of losing out on many other things." -Tim Ferriss
"»Nunca había oído decirlo de esa manera, pero se me quedó. Tanto que ahora se lo digo a mi hijo: '¿Es un sueño o es una meta?'. Porque un sueño es algo con lo que fantaseas y que probablemente nunca llegará a ocurrir. Una meta es algo que planificas, en lo que trabajas y que alcanzas. Siempre he visto así mis cosas. Mis modelos de éxito eran personas con metas bien estructuradas y que después se fijaron un plan para alcanzar esas cosas. Creo que eso es lo que impresionó de Arnold [Schwarzenegger]. Es lo que me impresionó de mi suegro [Vince McMahon].» Preocuparse ahora no va a cambiar nada «Soy amigo de Floyd Mayweather, y una vez lo acompañé al cuadrilátero, creo que cuando luchó contra Marquez. Yo quería ver algunas de las peleas preliminares y llegamos temprano. Al poco, algunos de los suyos se acercaron a mí y me dijeron: 'Floyd quiere saludarte antes de empezar a prepararse, charlar contigo unos minutos'. Así que Steph, mi mujer, y yo fuimos a su vestuario y lo encontramos tumbado en el sofá viendo un partido de baloncesto. Dijo: 'Hola, sentaos'. Así que nos ponemos a charlar un poco," -Tim Ferriss
"Making a concerted effort to trade your short-term gratification for a longer-term payoff. Whereas everyone else wants to get credit and be 'respected,' you can forget credit. You can forget it so hard that you’re glad when others get it instead of you—that" -Tim Ferriss
"How to Say 'No' When It Matters Most 'The wisdom of life consists in the elimination of non-essentials.' —Lin Yutang 'Discipline equals freedom.' —Jocko Willink (page 412)" -Tim Ferriss
"If you don’t give young men a good and useful group to belong to, they will create a bad group to belong to. But one way or another, they’re going to create a group, and they’re going to find something, an adversary, where they can demonstrate their prowess and their unity." -Tim Ferriss
"DCA (ácido dicloroacético): Por razones aún no esclarecidas del todo y en determinadas circunstancias, el DCA es capaz de aniquilar las células cancerosas en dosis apenas tóxicas para las células normales. Dom" -Tim Ferriss
"El trabajo funcionará cuando no funcione ninguna otra cosa'»." -Tim Ferriss
"Be the silence that listens.' –Tara Brach" -Tim Ferriss
"«Ser un emprendedor es estar dispuesto a hacer un trabajo que nadie más quiere hacer [para] poder vivir el resto de tu vida haciendo lo que quieras hacer.»" -Tim Ferriss
"Dar el salto para entrar en los nuevos mundos que te esperan es como ascender de pasajero a piloto de tu propia vida." -Tim Ferriss
"sequencing. If you stop reading here" -Tim Ferriss
"Once you say you’re going to settle for second, that’s what happens to you in life. —JOHN F. KENNEDY" -Tim Ferriss
"What are bad recommendations you hear in your profession or area of expertise? The biggest one is that international audiences won’t see films about people of color. It’s particularly insidious, but it’s reflective of a broader issue wherein Hollywood accepts conventional wisdom that is more convention than wisdom without interrogating whether there’s any evidence to support those assumptions. What advice would you give to a smart, driven college student about to enter the 'real world'? Try everything you think you might want to do professionally before accepting whatever backup plan you have in the back of your head but are very much hoping to avoid." -Tim Ferriss
"Rissa Kerguelen by F. M. Busby. I read this now largely forgotten science fiction book at about the time I was starting my company, and it influenced me deeply. One key idea is the role of entrepreneurship as a 'subversive force.' In a world dominated by large companies, it is the smaller companies that keep freedom alive, with economics at least one of the battlegrounds. This book gave me the courage to submerge myself in the details of a fundamentally trivial business (technical writing and publishing) and to let go of my earlier hopes of writing deep books that would change the world. Those hopes came back around later. The other wonderful idea in this book is 'the long view.' Well before the Long Now Foundation popularized the idea, Busby hinged his plot on the science fiction trope that in a world of near-light-speed travel, time passes more slowly for those at near-relativistic speed than for those left behind. The characters must set events in motion and travel to meet up with them decades hence. That was also a useful framing as I set out to build a business that would allow me to affect the world of the future in ways that I couldn’t yet as a young entrepreneur." -Tim Ferriss
"There have been several points in my life—among them, just before I was fired from TrueSAN and just before I escaped the U.S. to avoid taking an Uzi into McDonald’s—at which I saw my future as another fat man in a midlife-crisis BMW. I simply looked at those who were 15–20 years ahead of me on the same track, whether a director of sales or an entrepreneur in the same industry, and it scared the hell out of me." -Tim Ferriss
"if I check e-mail once per week and that results in an average loss of two sales per week, totaling $80 in lost profit, I will continue checking once per week because $200 (10 hours of time) minus $80 is still a $120 net gain, not to mention the enormous benefits of completing other main tasks in those 10 hours. If you calculate the financial and emotional benefit of completing just one main task (such as landing a major client or completing a life-changing trip), the value of batching is much more than the per-hour savings." -Tim Ferriss
"Sometimes you need to allow life to save you from getting what you want." -Tim Ferriss
"These world-class performers don’t have superpowers. The rules they’ve crafted for themselves allow the bending of reality to such an extent that it may seem that way, but they’ve learned how to do this, and so can you. These 'rules' are often uncommon habits and bigger questions. In a surprising number of cases, the power is in the absurd. The more absurd, the more 'impossible' the question, the more profound the answers. Take, for instance, a question that serial billionaire Peter Thiel likes to ask himself and others: 'If you have a 10-year plan of how to get [somewhere], you should ask: Why can’t you do this in 6 months?' For purposes of illustration here, I might reword that to: 'What might you do to accomplish your 10-year goals in the next 6 months, if you had a gun against your head?' Now, let’s pause. Do I expect you to take 10 seconds to ponder this and then magically accomplish 10 years’ worth of dreams in the next few months? No, I don’t. But I do expect that the question will productively break your mind, like a butterfly shattering a chrysalis to emerge with new capabilities. The 'normal' systems you have in place, the social rules you’ve forced upon yourself, the standard frameworks—they don’t work when answering a question like this. You are forced to shed artificial constraints, like shedding a skin, to realize that you had the ability to renegotiate your reality all along. It just takes practice. My suggestion is that you spend real time with the questions you find most ridiculous in this book. Thirty minutes of stream-of-consciousness journaling (page 224) could change your life. On top of that, while the world is a gold mine, you need to go digging in other people’s heads to unearth riches. Questions are your pickaxes and competitive advantage. This book will give you an arsenal to choose from." -Tim Ferriss
"There are many organizations that fret over small, direct expenses, yet have no misgivings about keeping superfluous staff tied up in a conference room for hours." -Tim Ferriss
"Richard Dawkins, The Selfish Gene," -Tim Ferriss
"Poker has taught me to disconnect failure from outcomes. Just because I lose doesn’t mean I failed, and just because I won doesn’t mean I succeeded—not when you define success and failure around making good decisions that will win in the long run." -Tim Ferriss
"The easiest way to avoid being overwhelmed is to create positive constraints: put up walls that dramatically restrict whatever it is that you’re trying to do." -Tim Ferriss
"May all of your creations have just the right flavor," -Tim Ferriss
"The Power of Less: The Fine Art of Limiting Yourself to the Essential . . . in Business and in Life, Essential Zen Habits: Mastering the Art of Change, Briefly, and several other books." -Tim Ferriss
"Parece razonable dedicar el 5 por ciento del tiempo a pensar cómo pasarás el 95 por ciento restante." -Tim Ferriss
"OrbiTape One-handed Tape Measure" -Tim Ferriss
"»Queremos aspirar a lo grande. El infinito es nuestro amigo. El infinito es seguro. El infinito nos ofrece un lugar donde escondernos." -Tim Ferriss
"Electronic Frontier Foundation (eff.org) is the leading nonprofit organization defending civil liberties in the digital world." -Tim Ferriss
"picked one book out of dozens based on reader reviews and the fact that the authors had actually done what I wanted to do. If the task is how-to in nature, I only read accounts that are 'how I did it' and autobiographical. No speculators or wannabes are worth the time. 2. Using the book to generate intelligent and specific questions, I contacted 10 of the top authors and agents in the world" -Tim Ferriss
"John Dewey’s dictum that 'a problem well put is half-solved' applies. Life punishes the vague wish and rewards the specific ask. After all, conscious thinking is largely asking and answering questions in your own head. If you want confusion and heartache, ask vague questions. If you want uncommon clarity and results, ask uncommonly clear questions." -Tim Ferriss
"The Effective Executive," -Tim Ferriss
"How to Fly a Horse: The Secret History of Creation, Invention, and Discovery by Kevin Ashton." -Tim Ferriss
"If you don’t believe in an afterlife, then you [should realize] that this is such a short and precious life, it is really important that you don’t spend it being unhappy. There is no excuse for spending most of your life in misery." -Tim Ferriss
"don’t recommend using Outlook or computerized to-do lists, because it is possible to add an infinite number of items. I use a standard piece of paper folded in half three times, which fits perfectly in the pocket and limits you to noting only a few items. There should never" -Tim Ferriss
"Cosmología gozosa (Impressions, 1979), de Alan. W. Watts." -Tim Ferriss
"Most likely, the problem won’t be around in a year, but my reputation of how I dealt with it will." -Tim Ferriss
"It is vain to do with more what can be done with less. —WILLIAM OF OCCAM (1300–1350), originator of 'Occam’s Razor" -Tim Ferriss
"Absurdism is unreasonably effective because it apparently has very little to do with any setting in particular, but still (I claim) ends up useful in practice in lots of settings. This is especially noticeable to me when I am at a loss for what to do. Take depression, for example. I find that my depression is usually born from intentions that I have, but for some reason cannot (or do not, perhaps for lack of motivation) bear them out. And when I’m struggling in the absurd, I do my best to give up. I often decide to do something, or a whole pile of somethings, then beat myself up for not doing it. It turns out that I often beat myself up to the point of depression for not doing it. I get depressed just because I am not doing what I think I" -Tim Ferriss
"Retirement Is Worst-Case-Scenario Insurance. Retirement planning is like life insurance. It should be viewed as nothing more than a hedge against the absolute worst-case scenario: in this case, becoming physically incapable of working and needing a reservoir of capital to survive." -Tim Ferriss
"Regla nº 1: Evita los carbohidratos «blancos» (o todo lo que pueda ser blanco). Regla nº 2: Repite las mismas pocas comidas una y otra vez. Regla nº 3: No bebas calorías. Regla nº 4: No comas fruta. Regla nº 5: Tómate un día libre por semana y enloquece." -Tim Ferriss
"To read Thucydides is to see our own world in microcosm. It’s the study of how democracies destroy themselves by breaking down into warring factions, the Few versus the Many. Hoi polloi in Greek means 'the many.' Oligoi means 'the few." -Tim Ferriss
"Specifically, let’s say you were interviewing Chris, you’d say, ‘Everyone says Chris is great, but . . .’ and then you’d sit there in silence. Do" -Tim Ferriss
"you don’t need to understand any of the biology, just as you don’t need to understand radiation to use a microwave oven." -Tim Ferriss
"It’s okay to have a desire. But pick a big one and pick it carefully. Drop the small ones." -Tim Ferriss
"The best way I can describe the feeling is a Finnish word, 'sisu'—the mental strength to continue to try even after you feel you’ve reached the limits of your abilities. I don’t think failure is sometimes part of the process—it always is." -Tim Ferriss
"¿De qué creencia convencional se prescindió?… Yo evito usar un éxito pasado como un poder para el futuro. Al fin y al cabo, el pequeño secreto inconfesable es que todo éxito fue casi un fracaso." -Tim Ferriss
"But what happens if we frame things in terms of elegance instead of strain? Sometimes, we find incredible results with ease instead of stress. Sometimes, we 'solve' the problem by completely reframing it." -Tim Ferriss
"I realized that on a scale of 1–10, 1 being nothing and 10 being permanently life-changing, my so-called worst-case scenario might have a temporary impact of 3 or 4. I believe this is true of most people and most would-be 'holy sh*t, my life is over' disasters. Keep in mind that this is the one-in-a-million disaster nightmare. On the other hand, if I realized my best-case scenario, or even a probable-case scenario, it would easily have a permanent 9 or 10 positive life-changing effect." -Tim Ferriss
"beauty has become a modern-day superdrug, that with filtered and face-tuned social media, retouched models on advertisements, and rampant pornography, we’ve overloaded the senses so that our natural instincts can no longer recognize or react to real beauty anymore. And it’s making us confused and miserable, both in how we judge ourselves and how we judge others." -Tim Ferriss
"if you can’t see your rocks on your calendar, they might as well not exist. This is doubly important for things like sleep and exercise. If you don’t put those in first, no one will." -Tim Ferriss
"If you don’t make mistakes, you’re not working on hard enough problems. And that’s a big mistake.' –Frank Wilczek" -Tim Ferriss
"a resignation to 9-to-5 drudgery in exchange for (sometimes) relaxing weekends and the occasional keep-it-short-or-get-fired vacation." -Tim Ferriss
"Dvorak siempre ha batido a QWERTY." -Tim Ferriss
"you’ve crossed a psychological boundary by establishing yourself to the asker as someone who is interested in the type of request being made. Research shows we’re remarkably committed to maintaining a consistent sense of external identity, even if we only established it to begin with out of politeness." -Tim Ferriss
"A veces tienes que dejar de hacer cosas que te gustan para favorecer lo que más importa.»" -Tim Ferriss
"The most complicated letters in English, like E and W, have four strokes. Many Japanese characters have more than 15 strokes" -Tim Ferriss
"All that preamble out of way, here’s what Big Dom eats. Keep in mind that he weighs roughly 100 kg (220 lbs), so scale as needed: Breakfast 4 eggs (cooked in a combo of butter and coconut oil) 1 can of sardines packed in olive oil (such as Wild Planet brand) ½ can oysters (Crown Prince brand. Note: Carbs on the label are from non-glycemic phytoplankton) Some asparagus or other vegetable TF: Both Dom and I travel with boxes of sardines, oysters, and bulk macadamia nuts. 'Lunch' Instead of lunch, Dom will consume a lot of MCT throughout the day via Quest Nutrition MCT Oil Powder. He will also make a Thermos of coffee with a half stick of butter and 1 to 2 scoops of MCT powder, which he sips throughout the day, totaling about 3 cups of coffee. Dinner 'One trick I’ve learned is that before dinner, which is my main meal of the day, I’ll have a bowl of soup, usually broccoli cream soup or cream of mushroom soup. I use concentrated coconut milk in place of the dairy cream. I thin it out [with a bit of water] so it’s not super dense in calories. After eating that, the amount of food that I want to consume is cut in half.' Dom’s dinner is always some kind of large salad, typically made up of: Mixed greens and spinach together Extra-virgin olive oil Artichokes Avocado MCT oil A little bit of Parmesan or feta cheese A moderate amount—about 50 g—of chicken, beef, or fish. He uses the fattiest versions he can get and increases the protein in the salad to 70 to 80 g if he had a workout that day. In addition to the salad, Dom will make some other vegetable like Brussels sprouts, asparagus, collard greens, etc., cooked in butter and coconut oil. He views vegetables as 'fat delivery systems." -Tim Ferriss
"«Dice que la clave del éxito es: 'Sé tan bueno que no puedan ignorarte'»." -Tim Ferriss
"Básicamente es la idea de que es fácil que oigas decir tu nombre en medio de una multitud." -Tim Ferriss
"This presents a very curious phenomenon. There are two synergistic approaches for increasing productivity that are inversions of each other: 1. Limit tasks to the important to shorten work time (80/20). 2. Shorten work time to limit tasks to the important (Parkinson’s Law). The best solution is to use both together: Identify the few critical tasks that contribute most to income and schedule them with very short and clear deadlines. If you haven’t identified the mission-critical tasks and set aggressive start and end times for their completion, the unimportant becomes the important. Even if you know what’s critical, without deadlines that create focus, the minor tasks forced upon you (or invented, in the case of the entrepreneur) will swell to consume time until another bit of minutiae jumps in to replace" -Tim Ferriss
"Bad dog. Hit yourself with a newspaper and cut it out." -Tim Ferriss
"8. «Vivir bien es la mejor venganza.» — George Herbert" -Tim Ferriss
"5. Join ProfNet, which is a service that journalists use to find experts to quote for articles. Getting PR is simple if you stop shouting and start listening. Use steps 1, 3, and 4 to demonstrate credibility and online research to respond to journalist queries. Done properly, this will get you featured in media ranging from small local publications to the New York Times and ABC News." -Tim Ferriss
"«No me gusta hablar en términos de 'tendencias' tecnológicas porque creo que cuando tienes una tendencia, es porque hay mucha gente practicándola. Y cuando tienes mucha gente haciendo algo, tienes mucha competencia y poca diferenciación." -Tim Ferriss
"Ezra Pound, which Mike considers one of the best quotes for writing: 'Only emotion endures." -Tim Ferriss
"As Tony recounted, Buffett told him, 'Investing in yourself is the most important investment you’ll ever make in your life…. There’s no financial investment that’ll ever match it, because if you develop more skill, more ability, more insight, more capacity, that’s what’s going to really provide economic freedom…. It’s those skill sets that really make that happen." -Tim Ferriss
"La capacidad, el interés y la resistencia mental son como la luna: crecen y después menguan. Organízate en consecuencia." -Tim Ferriss
"Too much free time is no more than fertilizer for self-doubt and assorted mental tail-chasing. Subtracting the bad does not create the good. It leaves a vacuum. Decreasing income-driven work isn’t the end goal. Living more—and becoming more—is." -Tim Ferriss
"de forma pasiva a que ellas decidan tu suerte." -Tim Ferriss
"Cómo me volvería menos competitivo para poder tener más éxito?'»." -Tim Ferriss
"When you complain, nobody wants to help you,’ and it’s the simplest thing and so plainly spoken. Only he could really say that brutal, honest truth, but it’s true, right? If you spend your time focusing on the things that are wrong, and that’s what you express and project to people you know, you don’t become a source of growth for people, you become a source of destruction for people. That draws more destructiveness." -Tim Ferriss
"don’t confuse being driven with being authentically animated by an inner calling. One state leaves you depleted and unfulfilled; the other fuels your soul and makes your heart sing." -Tim Ferriss
"Improve it, eliminate it, or delegate it." -Tim Ferriss
"Who you portray in your marketing isn’t necessarily the only demographic who buys your product—it’s often the demographic that most people want to identify with or belong to." -Tim Ferriss
"eustrés: estrés sano que constituye un estímulo para crecer." -Tim Ferriss
"I personally aim for an 8–10× markup, which means a $100 product can’t cost me more than $10–12.50." -Tim Ferriss
"trade a short-term, incremental gain for a potential longer-term, game-changing upside?" -Tim Ferriss
"D: To reach the big pay-off, whether IPO, acquisition, retirement, or other pot of gold. NR: To think big but ensure payday comes every day: cash flow first, big payday second." -Tim Ferriss
"Doing light-weight overhead squats with a narrow stance, in combination with Cossack squats (page 87), for 3 months is what helped me get 99% toward passing the 'campfire test' above. My left ankle is still sadly bone on bone." -Tim Ferriss
"To boil water, the MED is 212°F (100°C) at standard air pressure. Boiled is boiled. Higher temperatures will not make it 'more boiled.' Higher temperatures just consume more resources that could be used for something else more productive." -Tim Ferriss
"«Mucha, mucha gente trabaja muy duro para ahorrar dinero y poder viajar cuando se jubile." -Tim Ferriss
"Rolling your foot on top of a golf ball on the floor to increase 'hamstring' flexibility." -Tim Ferriss
"Doing something unimportant well does not make it important. 2. Requiring a lot of time does not make a task important." -Tim Ferriss
"The Slow-Carb Diet® Cheat Sheet Many people lose hope when trying to lose weight. Fortunately, it need not be complicated. Though I regularly fast and enter ketosis, the Slow-Carb Diet (SCD) has been my default diet for more than a decade. It works almost beyond belief and affects much more than appearance. From one reader: 'I just wanted to sincerely thank Tim for taking the time to research and write The 4-Hour Body. My mom, in her late 60s, lost 45 pounds and got off her high blood pressure meds that she had been on for 20+ years. She did all this in about 3 months. This means that I get to have her around for a long time.' The basic rules are simple, all followed 6 days per week: Rule #1: Avoid 'white' starchy carbohydrates (or those that can be white). This means all bread, pasta, rice, potatoes, and grains (yes, including quinoa). If you have to ask, don’t eat it. Rule #2: Eat the same few meals over and over again, especially for breakfast and lunch. Good news: You already do this. You’re just picking new default meals. If you want to keep it simple, split your plate into thirds: protein, veggies, and beans/legumes. Rule #3: Don’t drink calories. Exception: 1 to 2 glasses of dry red wine per night is allowed, although this can cause some peri-/post-menopausal women to plateau. Rule #4: Don’t eat fruit. (Fructose → glycerol phosphate → more body fat, more or less.) Avocado and tomatoes are allowed. Rule #5: Whenever possible, measure your progress in body fat percentage, NOT total pounds. The scale can deceive and derail you. For instance, it’s common to gain muscle while simultaneously losing fat on the SCD. That’s exactly what you want, but the scale number won’t move, and you will get frustrated. In place of the scale, I use DEXA scans, a BodyMetrix home ultrasound device, or calipers with a gym professional (I recommend the Jackson-Pollock 7-point method). And then: Rule #6: Take one day off per week and go nuts. I choose and recommend Saturday. This is 'cheat day,' which a lot of readers also call 'Faturday.' For biochemical and psychological reasons, it’s important not to hold back. Some readers keep a 'to-eat' list during the week, which reminds them that they’re only giving up vices for 6 days at a time. Comprehensive step-by-step details, including Q&As and troubleshooting, can be found in The 4-Hour Body, but the preceding outline is often enough to lose 20 pounds in a month, and drop 2 clothing sizes. Dozens of readers have lost 100–200 pounds on the SCD. My 6-Piece Gym in a Bag I take these 6 items with me whenever I travel." -Tim Ferriss
"Albert Hofmann, the inventor of LSD, considered microdosing the most neglected area of research. Hofmann microdosed LSD often for the last few decades of his life. He remained sharp until he died at 101. He would take it when he was walking among trees. In Jim’s opinion, microdosing psychedelics does a far better job than a whole class of drugs we now call 'cognitive enhancers,' most of which are simply derivatives of speed." -Tim Ferriss
"Just Because You Exercise Doesn’t Mean You Deserve Sugar Water" -Tim Ferriss
"Usually, the answer is, 'You can die.' Then I answer back, 'I’d rather die doing something I feel is great and amazing rather than be safe and comfortable living a life I hate." -Tim Ferriss
"If a narrative isn’t working, well then, really, why are you using it? The narrative isn’t done to you; the narrative is something that you choose. Once we can dig deep and find a different narrative, then we ought to be able to change the game." -Tim Ferriss
"Peter’s breathing exercise focuses on expanding the lungs with fast, large inhales. His affirmational mantra, which he repeats a number of times, is 'I am joy. I am love. I am gratitude. I see, hear, feel, and know that the purpose of my life is to inspire and guide the transformation of humanity on and off the Earth." -Tim Ferriss
"The noun 'entheogen,' meaning 'generating the divine within,' has become a popular alternative to the term 'psychedelic." -Tim Ferriss
"Hardcore History by" -Tim Ferriss
"Hazte a la idea de que decir que no a menudo exige cambiar popularidad por respeto." -Tim Ferriss
"After contracting Lyme disease and operating at ~10% capacity for 9 months in 2014, I made health #1. Prior to Lyme, I’d worked out and eaten well, but when push came to shove, 'health #1' was negotiable. Now, it’s literally #1. What does this mean? If I sleep poorly and have an early morning meeting, I’ll cancel the meeting last-minute if needed and catch up on sleep. If I’ve missed a workout and have a conference call coming up in 30 minutes? Same. Late-night birthday party with a close friend? Not unless I can sleep in the next morning. In practice, strictly making health #1 has real social and business ramifications. That’s a price I’ve realized I MUST be fine with paying, or I will lose weeks or months to sickness and fatigue. Making health #1 50% of the time doesn’t work. It’s absolutely all-or-nothing. If it’s #1 50% of the time, you’ll compromise precisely when it’s most important not to. The artificial urgency common to startups makes mental and physical health a rarity. I’m tired of unwarranted last-minute 'hurry up and sign' emergencies and related fire drills. It’s a culture of cortisol." -Tim Ferriss
"This 'if … then' structure becomes more important as you check e-mail less often. Since I only check e-mail once a week, it is critical that no one needs a 'what if?' answered or other information within seven days of a given e-mail I send. If I suspect that a manufacturing order hasn’t arrived at the shipping facility, for example, I’ll send an e-mail to my shipping facility manager along these lines: 'Dear Susan … Has the new manufacturing shipment arrived? If so, please advise me on … If not, please contact John Doe at 555-5555 or via e-mail at john@doe.com (he is also CC’d) and advise on delivery date and tracking. John, if there are any issues with the shipment, please coordinate with Susan, reachable at 555-4444, who has the authority to make decisions up to $500 on my behalf. In case of emergency, call me on my cell phone, but I trust you two. Thanks." -Tim Ferriss
"Over the ensuing days, however, I realized that everyone seemed to be discussing how to build large and successful companies, sell out, and live the good life. Fair enough. The question no one really seemed to be asking or answering was, Why do it all in the first place? What is the pot of gold that justifies spending the best years of your life hoping for happiness in the last?" -Tim Ferriss
"This brings us full circle. The question you should be asking isn’t, 'What do I want?' or 'What are my goals?' but 'What would excite me?" -Tim Ferriss
"People think it must be fun to be a super genius, but they don’t realize how hard it is to put up with all the idiots in the world." -Tim Ferriss
"Las reglas de sentido común del «mundo real» son una frágil colección de ilusiones reforzadas por la sociedad." -Tim Ferriss
"Persistence matters more than talent. The student with straight As is irrelevant if the student sitting next to him with Bs has more passion." -Tim Ferriss
"I am an old man and have known a great many troubles, but most of them never happened.' —Mark Twain" -Tim Ferriss
"Homo Deus: A Brief History of" -Tim Ferriss
"WHAT INTERESTING THING ARE YOU WORKING ON? WHY IS THAT INTERESTING TO YOU? WHAT’S SURPRISING ABOUT THAT? IS ANYBODY ELSE THINKING ABOUT THIS?' These are common questions" -Tim Ferriss
"A good strength coach should get a female, no matter what her body fat is, to be able to do 12 chin-ups in 12 weeks." -Tim Ferriss
"the freedom and resolve to pursue your dreams without reverting to work for work’s sake (W4W)." -Tim Ferriss
"Take 45 Minutes Instead of 43—Is Your Red Face Worth It?" -Tim Ferriss
"If someone isn’t making you stronger, they’re making you weaker." -Tim Ferriss
"lived in San Francisco since 2007. Instead, he bought a cabin in rural Truckee," -Tim Ferriss
"De este modo, acabamos pasando (tal como lo expresó Thoreau) «la mejor parte de la vida ganando dinero para disfrutar de una libertad discutible en la parte menos valiosa de ella»." -Tim Ferriss
"4. Si respondes, no te disculpes en exceso." -Tim Ferriss
"People can’t believe that most of the ultrasuccessful companies in the world do not manufacture their own products, answer their own phones, ship their own products, or service their own customers. There are hundreds of companies that exist to pretend to work for someone else and handle these functions, providing rentable infrastructure to anyone who knows where to find them." -Tim Ferriss
"I first met Chris in 2008 at a barbecue organized by Kevin Rose (page 340). For my entire life, I’d had a phobia of swimming and an acute fear of drowning. This came up over wine, and Chris said, 'I have the answer to your prayers.' He introduced me to Total Immersion swimming by Terry Laughlin, and in less than 10 days of solo training, I went from a 2-length maximum (of a 25-yard pool) to swimming more than 40 lengths per workout in sets of 2 and 4. It blew my mind, and now I swim for fun." -Tim Ferriss
"A little part of me dies every time someone tells me they’ve taken a job as a 'steppingstone' to something else, when they clearly aren’t invested in it. You have one life to live. Time is valuable. If you’re using steppingstones, you’re also likely relying on someone else’s path or definition of success. Make your own." -Tim Ferriss
"SLOW DANCE Have you ever watched kids On a merry-go-round? Or listened to the rain Slapping on the ground? Ever followed a butterfly’s erratic flight? Or gazed at the sun into the fading night? You better slow down. Don’t dance so fast. Time is short. The music won’t last. Do you run through each day On the fly? When you ask: How are you? Do you hear the reply? When the day is done, do you lie in your bed With the next hundred chores Running through your head? You’d better slow down. Don’t dance so fast. Time is short. The music won’t last. Ever told your child, We’ll do it tomorrow? And in your haste, Not see his sorrow? Ever lost touch, Let a good friendship die Cause you never had time To call and say, 'Hi'? You’d better slow down. Don’t dance so fast. Time is short. The music won’t last. When you run so fast to get somewhere You miss half the fun of getting there. When you worry and hurry through your day, It is like an unopened gift thrown away. Life is not a race. Do take it slower. Hear the music Before the song is over." -Tim Ferriss
"Born Standing Up: A Comic’s Life." -Tim Ferriss
"That cliché you ignored like a throwaway fortune cookie? Suddenly it makes sense and moves mountains" -Tim Ferriss
"Because of that, I realized that the outcome is not the outcome. In other words, what we think of as endpoints to a goal are really just forks in a road that is endlessly forking. In the big picture of our lives, we really don’t know whether a particular success or failure is actually helping or hurting us. So the metric I now use to judge my efforts and goals is: Did I do my best, given who I was and what I knew at that particular time? And what can I learn from the outcome to make my best better next time?" -Tim Ferriss
"If you want to be a stud later, you have to be a pud now." -Tim Ferriss
"Exact numbers aren’t needed to realize that we spend too much time with those who poison us with pessimism, sloth, and low expectations of themselves and the world." -Tim Ferriss
"Companies go out of business when they make the wrong decisions or, just as important, make too many decisions. The latter creates complexity." -Tim Ferriss
"Si produces bastantes ideas malas, se te ocurrirán algunas buenas «La gente con dificultades para tener buenas ideas, si te cuenta la verdad, te dirá que tampoco tiene muchas ideas malas." -Tim Ferriss
"As William Gibson, who coined the term 'cyberspace,' has said: 'The future is already here—it is just unevenly distributed." -Tim Ferriss
"When something goes badly, I don’t automatically assume I did something wrong. Instead I ask myself, 'What policy was I following that produced this bad outcome, and do I still expect that policy to give the best results overall, occasional bad outcomes notwithstanding?' If yes, then carry on!" -Tim Ferriss
"We’re wired completely opposite in that sense. Basically, he’s betting against change. We’re betting for change. When he makes a mistake, it’s because something changes that he didn’t expect. When we make a mistake, it’s because something doesn’t change that we thought would. We could not be more different in that way. But" -Tim Ferriss
"«Si algo te ofende, mira en tu interior… Es señal de que algo pasa ahí dentro.»" -Tim Ferriss
"The reason you’re suffering is you’re focused on yourself. People tell me, ‘I’m not suffering that way. I’m worrying about my kids. My kids are not what they need to be.’ No, the reason [these people are] upset is they feel they failed their kids. It’s still about them. . . . Suffering comes from three thought patterns: loss, less, never." -Tim Ferriss
"Greatness comes from humble beginnings; it comes from grunt work. It" -Tim Ferriss
"Check e-mail twice per day, once at 12:00 noon or just prior to lunch, and again at 4:00 P.M. 12:00 P.M. and 4:00 P.M. are times that ensure you will have the most responses from previously sent e-mail. Never check e-mail first thing in the morning.12 Instead, complete your most important task before 11:00 A.M. to avoid using lunch or reading e-mail as a postponement excuse" -Tim Ferriss
"我請本書裡各位厲害來賓讀同一份底稿，問他們：「哪10%的內容你一定會保留，哪10%的內容你一定會刪掉？」結果非常見仁見智！所以你可以跳過很多地方，想讀的再讀就好。'Excerpt From: 提摩西．費里斯（Timothy Ferriss）. '人生勝利聖經.' Apple Books." -Tim Ferriss
"There are no statues erected to critics." -Tim Ferriss
"My mantra is a very simple one, and that’s ‘Discipline equals freedom." -Tim Ferriss
"The antithesis of mastery is the pursuit of quick fixes." -Tim Ferriss
"Leonard Cohen, even though when I met him I was too tongue-tied to say anything. Anyway, I’ve given away a number of copies of his Book of Longing, since it articulates a sense of the compassionate" -Tim Ferriss
"Ask for Forgiveness, Not Permission." -Tim Ferriss
"D: To buy all the things you want to have. NR: To do all the things you want to do, and be all the things you want to be. If this includes some tools and gadgets, so be it, but they are either means to an end or bonuses, not the focus." -Tim Ferriss
"book Culinary Artistry, Andrew Dornenburg and Karen Page provide" -Tim Ferriss
"I can’t offer a single answer that will fit all people, but, based on the dozens of fulfilled NR I’ve interviewed, there are two components that are fundamental: continual learning and service." -Tim Ferriss
"Once you assess your own skill and the situation, often things change. As long as you stop and really look, I think people’s lives will change kind of radically, especially for women. Women are very, very quick to say they’re scared. That’s something I really want to change." -Tim Ferriss
"Many people feel that when they are overwhelmed or lose focus, they need to retreat into themselves and shut out the world. They think that there is greater merit and virtue in figuring things out alone. That doesn’t work for me. I find myself, and activate my greatest creative capacities, in relationship with the beautiful diversity of other human beings." -Tim Ferriss
"I also keep a handful of blank pages in my morning journal to build a quote section over the course of the journal (pulling quotes from reading, podcasts, etc.). That way, I can easily refer back to it and flip through when looking for some insight." -Tim Ferriss
"Once you get fancy, fancy gets broken." -Tim Ferriss
"el cual depende a partes iguales de la elección y el azar.»" -Tim Ferriss
"La segunda ley (Prensa científica, 1992), «escrita por un profesor de Fisicoquímica de Oxford llamado P. W. Atkins." -Tim Ferriss
"Poor Charlie’s Almanack, by Charles T. Munger." -Tim Ferriss
"Or Dick Fosbury, who went backwards over the high jump bar for the first time in the Olympics, winning gold —' ERIC: '1968, you got it.' TIM: 'Ridiculed, then mimicked, and eventually made standard." -Tim Ferriss
"estás a punto de hacer historia.»" -Tim Ferriss
"Desire is a contract that you make with yourself to be unhappy until you get what you want.'Desire is a driver, a motivator. In fact, a sincere and uncompromising desire, placed above everything else, is nearly always fulfilled. But every judgment, every preference, every setback spawns its own desire and soon we drown in them. Each one a problem to be solved, and we suffer until it’s fulfilled.Happiness, or at least peace, is the sense that nothing is missing in this moment. No desires running amok. It’s okay to have a desire. But pick a big one and pick it carefully. Drop the small ones." -Tim Ferriss