“You could never convince a monkey to give you a banana by promising him limitless bananas after death in monkey heaven." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“How do you cause people to believe in an imagined order such as Christianity, democracy or capitalism? First, you never admit that the order is imagined." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Culture tends to argue that it forbids only that which is unnatural. But from a biological perspective, nothing is unnatural. Whatever is possible is by definition also natural. A truly unnatural behaviour, one that goes against the laws of nature, simply cannot exist, so it would need no prohibition." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“According to Buddhism, the root of suffering is neither the feeling of pain nor of sadness nor even of meaninglessness. Rather, the real root of suffering is this never-ending and pointless pursuit of ephemeral feelings, which causes us to be in a constant state of tension, restlessness and dissatisfaction. Due to this pursuit, the mind is never satisfied. Even when experiencing pleasure, it is not content, because it fears this feeling might soon disappear, and craves that this feeling should stay and intensify. People are liberated from suffering not when they experience this or that fleeting pleasure, but rather when they understand the impermanent nature of all their feelings, and stop craving them. This is the aim of Buddhist meditation practices. In meditation, you are supposed to closely observe your mind and body, witness the ceaseless arising and passing of all your feelings, and realise how pointless it is to pursue them. When the pursuit stops, the mind becomes very relaxed, clear and satisfied. All kinds of feelings go on arising and passing – joy, anger, boredom, lust – but once you stop craving particular feelings, you can just accept them for what they are. You live in the present moment instead of fantasising about what might have been. The resulting serenity is so profound that those who spend their lives in the frenzied pursuit of pleasant feelings can hardly imagine it. It is like a man standing for decades on the seashore, embracing certain ‘good’ waves and trying to prevent them from disintegrating, while simultaneously pushing back ‘bad’ waves to prevent them from getting near him. Day in, day out, the man stands on the beach, driving himself crazy with this fruitless exercise. Eventually, he sits down on the sand and just allows the waves to come and go as they please. How peaceful!" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Consistency is the playground of dull minds." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“How many young college graduates have taken demanding jobs in high-powered firms, vowing that they will work hard to earn money that will enable them to retire and pursue their real interests when they are thirty-five? But by the time they reach that age, they have large mortgages, children to school, houses in the suburbs that necessitate at least two cars per family, and a sense that life is not worth living without really good wine and expensive holidays abroad. What are they supposed to do, go back to digging up roots? No, they double their efforts and keep slaving away." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“One of history’s few iron laws is that luxuries tend to become necessities and to spawn new obligations." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“History is something that very few people have been doing while everyone else was ploughing fields and carrying water buckets." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Biology enables, Culture forbids." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“We did not domesticate wheat. It domesticated us." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The romantic contrast between modern industry that “destroys nature” and our ancestors who “lived in harmony with nature” is groundless. Long before the Industrial Revolution, Homo sapiens held the record among all organisms for driving the most plant and animal species to their extinctions. We have the dubious distinction of being the deadliest species in the annals of life." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“This is the essence of the Agricultural Revolution: the ability to keep more people alive under worse conditions." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Money is the most universal and most efficient system of mutual trust ever devised." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“So, monotheism explains order, but is mystified by evil. Dualism explains evil, but is puzzled by order. There is one logical way of solving the riddle: to argue that there is a single omnipotent God who created the entire universe – and He’s evil. But nobody in history has had the stomach for such a belief." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“This is the best reason to learn history: not in order to predict the future, but to free yourself of the past and imagine alternative destinies. Of course this is not total freedom – we cannot avoid being shaped by the past. But some freedom is better than none." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Ever since the Cognitive Revolution, Sapiens have thus been living in a dual reality. On the one hand, the objective reality of rivers, trees and lions; and on the other hand, the imagined reality of gods, nations and corporations. As time went by, the imagined reality became ever more powerful, so that today the very survival of rivers, trees and lions depends on the grace of imagined entities such as the United States and Google." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The capitalist and consumerist ethics are two sides of the same coin, a merger of two commandments. The supreme commandment of the rich is ‘Invest!’ The supreme commandment of the rest of us is ‘Buy!’ The capitalist–consumerist ethic is revolutionary in another respect. Most previous ethical systems presented people with a pretty tough deal. They were promised paradise, but only if they cultivated compassion and tolerance, overcame craving and anger, and restrained their selfish interests. This was too tough for most. The history of ethics is a sad tale of wonderful ideals that nobody can live up to. Most Christians did not imitate Christ, most Buddhists failed to follow Buddha, and most Confucians would have caused Confucius a temper tantrum. In contrast, most people today successfully live up to the capitalist–consumerist ideal. The new ethic promises paradise on condition that the rich remain greedy and spend their time making more money and that the masses give free reign to their cravings and passions and buy more and more. This is the first religion in history whose followers actually do what they are asked to do. How though do we know that we'll really get paradise in return? We've seen it on television." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“As far as we can tell from a purely scientific viewpoint, human life has absolutely no meaning. Humans are the outcome of blind evolutionary processes that operate without goal or purpose. Our actions are not part of some divine cosmic plan, and if planet earth were to blow up tomorrow morning, the universe would probably keep going about its business as usual. As far as we can tell at this point, human subjectivity would not be missed. Hence any meaning that people inscribe to their lives is just a delusion." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Questions you cannot answer are usually far better for you than answers you cannot question." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“happiness does not really depend on objective conditions of either wealth, health or even community. Rather, it depends on the correlation between objective conditions and subjective expectations." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“We do not become satisfied by leading a peaceful and prosperous existence. Rather, we become satisfied when reality matches our expectations. The bad news is that as conditions improve, expectations balloon." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Nothing captures the biological argument better than the famous New Age slogan: ‘Happiness begins within.’ Money, social status, plastic surgery, beautiful houses, powerful positions – none of these will bring you happiness. Lasting happiness comes only from serotonin, dopamine and oxytocin." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Is there anything more dangerous than dissatisfied and irresponsible gods who don’t know what they want?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The most common reaction of the human mind to achievement is not satisfaction, but craving for more." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In 2012 about 56 million people died throughout the world; 620,000 of them died due to human violence (war killed 120,000 people, and crime killed another 500,000). In contrast, 800,000 committed suicide, and 1.5 million died of diabetes. Sugar is now more dangerous than gunpowder." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“People are usually afraid of change because they fear the unknown. But the single greatest constant of history is that everything changes." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Voltaire said about God that ‘there is no God, but don’t tell that to my servant, lest he murder me at night’. Hammurabi would have said the same about his principle of hierarchy, and Thomas Jefferson about human rights. Homo sapiens has no natural rights, just as spiders, hyenas and chimpanzees have no natural rights. But don’t tell that to our servants, lest they murder us at night." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Large numbers of strangers can cooperate successfully by believing in common myths. Any large-scale human cooperation – whether a modern state, a medieval church, an ancient city or an archaic tribe – is rooted in common myths that exist only in people’s collective imagination." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“How can we distinguish what is biologically determined from what people merely try to justify through biological myths? A good rule of thumb is ‘Biology enables, Culture forbids.’ Biology is willing to tolerate a very wide spectrum of possibilities. It’s culture that obliges people to realize some possibilities while forbidding others. Biology enables women to have children – some cultures oblige women to realize this possibility. Biology enables men to enjoy sex with one another – some cultures forbid them to realize this possibility. Culture tends to argue that it forbids only that which is unnatural. But from a biological perspective, nothing is unnatural. Whatever is possible is by definition also natural. A truly unnatural behavior, one that goes against the laws of nature, simply cannot exist." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Each year the US population spends more money on diets than the amount needed to feed all the hungry people in the rest of the world." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Morality doesn’t mean ‘following divine commands’. It means ‘reducing suffering’. Hence in order to act morally, you don’t need to believe in any myth or story. You just need to develop a deep appreciation of suffering." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In the past, censorship worked by blocking the flow of information. In the twenty-first century, censorship works by flooding people with irrelevant information. [...] In ancient times having power meant having access to data. Today having power means knowing what to ignore." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Evolution has made Homo sapiens, like other social mammals, a xenophobic creature. Sapiens instinctively divide humanity into two parts, ‘we’ and ‘they’." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“We study history not to know the future but to widen our horizons, to understand that our present situation is neither natural nor inevitable, and that we consequently have many more possibilities before us than we imagine." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In a world deluged by irrelevant information, clarity is power." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“in order to change an existing imagined order, we must first believe in an alternative imagined order." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The greatest scientific discovery was the discovery of ignorance. Once humans realised how little they knew about the world, they suddenly had a very good reason to seek new knowledge, which opened up the scientific road to progress." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“History isn’t a single narrative, but thousands of alternative narratives. Whenever we choose to tell one, we are also choosing to silence others. Human" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“One of history’s fews iron laws is that luxuries tend to become necessities and to spawn new obligations. Once people get used to a certain luxury, they take it for granted. Then they begin to count on it. Finally they reach a point where they can’t live without it. Over the few decades, we have invented countless time saving machines that are supposed to make like more relaxed - washing machines, vacuum cleaners, dishwashers, telephones, mobile phones, computers, email. We thought we were saving time; instead we revved up the treadmill of life to ten times its former speed and made our days more anxious and agitated." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“A meaningful life can be extremely satisfying even in the midst of hardship, whereas a meaningless life is a terrible ordeal no matter how comfortable it is." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Silence isn’t neutrality; it is supporting the status-quo." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Hierarchies serve an important function. They enable complete strangers to know how to treat one another without wasting the time and energy needed to become personally acquainted." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It takes a lot of courage to fight biases and oppressive regimes, but it takes even greater courage to admit ignorance and venture into the unknown. Secular education teaches us that if we don’t know something, we shouldn’t be afraid of acknowledging our ignorance and looking for new evidence. Even if we think we know something, we shouldn’t be afraid of doubting our opinions and checking ourselves again. Many people are afraid of the unknown, and want clear-cut answers for every question. Fear of the unknown can paralyse us more than any tyrant. People throughout history worried that unless we put all our faith in some set of absolute answers, human society will crumble. In fact, modern history has demonstrated that a society of courageous people willing to admit ignorance and raise difficult questions is usually not just more prosperous but also more peaceful than societies in which everyone must unquestioningly accept a single answer. People afraid of losing their truth tend to be more violent than people who are used to looking at the world from several different viewpoints. Questions you cannot answer are usually far better for you than answers you cannot question." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Each and every one of us has been born into a given historical reality, ruled by particular norms and values, and managed by a unique economic and political system. We take this reality for granted, thinking it is natural, inevitable and immutable. We forget that our world was created by an accidental chain of events, and that history shaped not only our technology, politics and society, but also our thoughts, fears and dreams. The cold hand of the past emerges from the grave of our ancestors, grips us by the neck and directs our gaze towards a single future. We have felt that grip from the moment we were born, so we assume that it is a natural and inescapable part of who we are. Therefore we seldom try to shake ourselves free, and envision alternative futures." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Domesticated chickens and cattle may well be an evolutionary success story, but they are also among the most miserable creatures that ever lived. The domestication of animals was founded on a series of brutal practices that only became crueller with the passing of the centuries." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“There are no gods, no nations, no money and no human rights, except in our collective imagination." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Humans were always far better at inventing tools than using them wisely." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Humans think in stories rather than in facts, numbers, or equations, and the simpler the story, the better." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Yet in truth the lives of most people have meaning only within the network of stories they tell one another." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Every day millions of people decide to grant their smartphone a bit more control over their lives or try a new and more effective antidepressant drug. In pursuit of health, happiness and power, humans will gradually change first one of their features and then another, and another, until they will no longer be human." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Fiction isn't bad. It is vital. Without commonly accepted stories about things like money, states or corporations, no complex human society can function. We can't play football unless everyone believes in the same made-up rules, and we can't enjoy the benefits of markets and courts without similar make-believe stories. But stories are just tools. They shouldn't become our goals or our yardsticks. When we forget that they are mere fiction, we lose touch with reality. Then we begin entire wars `to make a lot of money for the cooperation' or 'to protect the national interest'. Corporations, money and nations exist only in our imagination. We invented them to serve us; why do we find ourselves sacrificing our life in their service." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Tolerance is not a Sapiens trademark. In modern times, a small difference in skin colour, dialect or religion has been enough to prompt one group of Sapiens to set about exterminating another group. Would ancient Sapiens have been more tolerant towards an entirely different human species? It may well be that when Sapiens encountered Neanderthals, the result was the first and most significant ethnic-cleansing campaign in history." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In essence, terrorism is a show. Terrorists stage a terrifying spectacle of violence that captures our imagination and makes us feel as if we are sliding back into medieval chaos. Consequently states often feel obliged to react to the theatre of terrorism with a show of security, orchestrating immense displays of force, such as the persecution of entire populations or the invasion of foreign countries. In most cases, this overreaction to terrorism poses a far greater threat to our security than the terrorists themselves. Terrorists" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In the 300 years of the crucifixion of Christ to the conversion of Emperor Constantine, polytheistic Roman emperors initiated no more than four general persecutions of Christians. Local administrators and governors incited some anti-Christian violence of their own. Still, if we combine all the victims of all these persecutions, it turns out that in these three centuries the polytheistic Romans killed no more than a few thousand Christians. In contrast, over the course, of the next 1,500 years, Christians slaughtered Christians by the millions, to defend slightly different interpretations of the religion of love and compassion." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“When the faithful are asked whether God really exists, they often begin by talking about the enigmatic mysteries of the universe and the limits of human understanding. ‘Science cannot explain the Big Bang,’ they exclaim, ‘so that must be God’s doing.’ Yet like a magician fooling an audience by imperceptibly replacing one card with another, the faithful quickly replace the cosmic mystery with the worldly lawgiver. After giving the name of ‘God’ to the unknown secrets of the cosmos, they then use this to somehow condemn bikinis and divorces. ‘We do not understand the Big Bang – therefore you must cover your hair in public and vote against gay marriage.’ Not only is there no logical connection between the two, but they are in fact contradictory. The deeper the mysteries of the universe, the less likely it is that whatever is responsible for them gives a damn about female dress codes or human sexual behaviour." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“According to the science of biology, people were not ‘created’. They have evolved. And they certainly did not evolve to be ‘equal’. The idea of equality is inextricably intertwined with the idea of creation. The Americans got the idea of equality from Christianity, which argues that every person has a divinely created soul, and that all souls are equal before God. However, if we do not believe in the Christian myths about God, creation and souls, what does it mean that all people are ‘equal’? Evolution is based on difference, not on equality. Every person carries a somewhat different genetic code, and is exposed from birth to different environmental influences. This leads to the development of different qualities that carry with them different chances of survival. ‘Created equal’ should therefore be translated into ‘evolved differently’." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Two Catholics who have never met can nevertheless go together on crusade or pool funds to build a hospital because they both believe that God was incarnated in human flesh and allowed Himself to be crucified to redeem our sins. States are rooted in common national myths. Two Serbs who have never met might risk their lives to save one another because both believe in the existence of the Serbian nation, the Serbian homeland and the Serbian flag. Judicial systems are rooted in common legal myths. Two lawyers who have never met can nevertheless combine efforts to defend a complete stranger because they both believe in the existence of laws, justice, human rights – and the money paid out in fees. Yet none of these things exists outside the stories that people invent and tell one another. There are no gods in the universe, no nations, no money, no human rights, no laws, and no justice outside the common imagination of human beings." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Sapiens rule the world because only they can weave an intersubjective web of meaning: a web of laws, forces, entities and places that exist purely in their common imagination. This web allows humans alone to organise crusades, socialist revolutions and human rights movements." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“One potential remedy for human stupidity is a dose of humility. National, religious and cultural tensions are made worse by the grandiose feeling that my nation, my religion and my culture are the most important in the world – hence my interests should come before the interests of anyone else, or of humankind as a whole. How can we make nations, religions and cultures a bit more realistic and modest about their true place in the world?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Hunter-gatherers spent their time in more stimulating and varied ways, and were less in danger of starvation and disease. The Agricultural Revolution certainly enlarged the sum total of food at the disposal of humankind, but the extra food did not translate into a better diet or more leisure. Rather, it translated into population explosions and pampered elites. The average farmer worked harder than the average forager, and got a worse diet in return. The Agricultural Revolution was history’s biggest fraud.2 Who was responsible? Neither kings, nor priests, nor merchants. The culprits were a handful of plant species, including wheat, rice and potatoes. These plants domesticated Homo sapiens, rather than vice versa." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“We should never underestimate human stupidity. Both on the personal and on the collective level, humans are prone to engage in self-destructive activities." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“This is the paradox of historical knowledge. Knowledge that does not change behaviour is useless. But knowledge that changes behaviour quickly loses its relevance. The more data we have and the better we understand history, the faster history alters its course, and the faster our knowledge becomes outdated." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Obesity is a double victory for consumerism. Instead of eating little, which will lead to economic contraction, people eat too much and then buy diet products - contributing to economic growth twice over." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Religion is a deal, whereas spirituality is a journey" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The greatest crimes in modern history resulted not just from hatred and greed, but even more so from ignorance and indifference." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“At present, people are happy to give away their most valuable asset—their personal data—in exchange for free email services and funny cat videos. It’s a bit like African and Native American tribes who unwittingly sold entire countries to European imperialists in exchange for colorful beads and cheap trinkets." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“most cherished desires of present-day Westerners are shaped by romantic, nationalist, capitalist and humanist myths that have been around for centuries. Friends giving advice often tell each other, ‘Follow your heart.’ But the heart is a double agent that usually takes its instructions from the dominant myths of the day, and the very recommendation to ‘follow your heart’ was implanted in our minds by a combination of nineteenth-century Romantic myths and twentieth-century consumerist myths. The Coca-Cola Company, for example, has marketed Diet Coke around the world under the slogan ‘Diet Coke. Do what feels good.’ Even what people take to be their most personal desires are usually programmed by the imagined order. Let’s consider, for example, the popular desire to take a holiday abroad. There is nothing natural or obvious about this. A chimpanzee alpha male would never think of using his power in order to go on holiday into the territory of a neighbouring chimpanzee band. The elite of ancient Egypt spent their fortunes building pyramids and having their corpses mummified, but none of them thought of going shopping in Babylon or taking a skiing holiday in Phoenicia. People today spend a great deal of money on holidays abroad because they are true believers in the myths of romantic consumerism. Romanticism tells us that in order to make the most of our human potential we must have as many different experiences as we can. We must open ourselves to a wide spectrum of emotions; we must sample various kinds of relationships; we must try different cuisines; we must learn to appreciate different styles of music. One of the best ways to do all that is to break free from our daily routine, leave behind our familiar setting, and go travelling in distant lands, where we can ‘experience’ the culture, the smells, the tastes and the norms of other people. We hear again and again the romantic myths about ‘how a new experience opened my eyes and changed my life’. Consumerism tells us that in order to be happy we must consume as many products and services as possible. If we feel that something is missing or not quite right, then we probably need to buy a product (a car, new clothes, organic food) or a service (housekeeping, relationship therapy, yoga classes). Every television commercial is another little legend about how consuming some product or service will make life better. 18. The Great Pyramid of Giza. The kind of thing rich people in ancient Egypt did with their money. Romanticism, which encourages variety, meshes perfectly with consumerism. Their marriage has given birth to the infinite ‘market of experiences’, on which the modern tourism industry is founded. The tourism industry does not sell flight tickets and hotel bedrooms. It sells experiences. Paris is not a city, nor India a country – they are both experiences, the consumption of which is supposed to widen our horizons, fulfil our human potential, and make us happier. Consequently, when the relationship between a millionaire and his wife is going through a rocky patch, he takes her on an expensive trip to Paris. The trip is not a reflection of some independent desire, but rather of an ardent belief in the myths of romantic consumerism. A wealthy man in ancient Egypt would never have dreamed of solving a relationship crisis by taking his wife on holiday to Babylon. Instead, he might have built for her the sumptuous tomb she had always wanted. Like the elite of ancient Egypt, most people in most cultures dedicate their lives to building pyramids. Only the names, shapes and sizes of these pyramids change from one culture to the other. They may take the form, for example, of a suburban cottage with a swimming pool and an evergreen lawn, or a gleaming penthouse with an enviable view. Few question the myths that cause us to desire the pyramid in the first place." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Soon, books will read you while you are reading them." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Our language evolved as a way of gossiping." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“On 20 July 1969, Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin landed on the surface of the moon. In the months leading up to their expedition, the Apollo II astronauts trained in a remote moon-like desert in the western United States. The area is home to several Native American communities, and there is a story – or legend – describing an encounter between the astronauts and one of the locals. One day as they were training, the astronauts came across an old Native American. The man asked them what they were doing there. They replied that they were part of a research expedition that would shortly travel to explore the moon. When the old man heard that, he fell silent for a few moments, and then asked the astronauts if they could do him a favour. ‘What do you want?’ they asked. ‘Well,’ said the old man, ‘the people of my tribe believe that holy spirits live on the moon. I was wondering if you could pass an important message to them from my people.’ ‘What’s the message?’ asked the astronauts. The man uttered something in his tribal language, and then asked the astronauts to repeat it again and again until they had memorised it correctly. ‘What does it mean?’ asked the astronauts. ‘Oh, I cannot tell you. It’s a secret that only our tribe and the moon spirits are allowed to know.’ When they returned to their base, the astronauts searched and searched until they found someone who could speak the tribal language, and asked him to translate the secret message. When they repeated what they had memorised, the translator started to laugh uproariously. When he calmed down, the astronauts asked him what it meant. The man explained that the sentence they had memorised so carefully said, ‘Don’t believe a single word these people are telling you. They have come to steal your lands." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In contrast, humankind ascended to the top so quickly that the ecosystem was not given time to adjust. Moreover, humans themselves failed to adjust. Most top predators of the planet are majestic creatures. Millions of years of dominion have filled them with self-confidence. Sapiens by contrast is more like a banana republic dictator. Having so recently been one of the underdogs of the savannah, we are full of fears and anxieties over our position, which makes us doubly cruel and dangerous. Many historical calamities, from deadly wars to ecological catastrophes, have resulted from this over-hasty jump." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“When a thousand people believe some made-up story for one month, that’s fake news. When a billion people believe it for a thousand years, that’s a religion, and we are admonished not to call it “fake news” in order not to hurt the feelings of the faithful (or incur their wrath). Note, however, that I am not denying the effectiveness or potential benevolence of religion. Just the opposite. For better or worse, fiction is among the most effective tools in humanity’s tool kit. By bringing people together, religious creeds make large-scale human cooperation possible. They inspire people to build hospitals, schools, and bridges in addition to armies and prisons. Adam and Eve never existed, but Chartres Cathedral is still beautiful." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Two thousand years of monotheistic brainwashing have caused most Westerners to see polytheism as ignorant and childish idolatry. This is an unjust stereotype." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“People easily understand that ‘primitives’ cement their social order by believing in ghosts and spirits, and gathering each full moon to dance together around the campfire. What we fail to appreciate is that our modern institutions function on exactly the same basis." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Philosophers are very patient people, but engineers are far less patient, and investors are the least patient of all." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“One of the greatest fictions of all is to deny the complexity of the world and think in absolute terms:" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“But the most important finding of all is that happiness does not really depend on objective conditions of either wealth, health or even community. Rather, it depends on the correlation between objective conditions and subjective expectations." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Capitalism did not defeat communism because capitalism was more ethical, because individual liberties are sacred or because God was angry with the heathen communists. Rather, capitalism won the Cold War because distributed data processing works better than centralised data processing, at least in periods of accelerating technological change." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Most sociopolitical hierarchies lack a logical or biological basis – they are nothing but the perpetuation of chance events supported by myths." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“No clear line separates healing from upgrading. Medicine almost always begins by saving people from falling below the norm, but the same tools and know-how can then be used to surpass the norm." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“So if you want to know the truth about the universe, about the meaning of life, and about your own identity, the best place to start is by observing suffering and exploring what it is.The answer isn’t a story." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Individual humans know embarrassingly little about the world, and as history has progressed, they have come to know less and less. A hunter-gatherer in the Stone Age knew how to make her own clothes, how to start a fire, how to hunt rabbits, and how to escape lions. We think we know far more today, but as individuals, we actually know far less. We rely on the expertise of others for almost all our needs." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The Scientific Revolution has not been a revolution of knowledge. It has been above all a revolution of ignorance. The great discovery that launched the Scientific Revolution was the discovery that humans do not know the answers to their most important questions. Premodern traditions of knowledge such as Islam, Christianity, Buddhism and Confucianism asserted that everything that is important to know about the world was already known. The great gods, or the one almighty God, or the wise people of the past possessed all-encompassing wisdom, which they revealed to us in scriptures and oral traditions. Ordinary mortals gained knowledge by delving into these ancient texts and traditions and understanding them properly. It was inconceivable that the Bible, the Qur’an or the Vedas were missing out on a crucial secret of the universe – a secret that might yet be discovered by flesh-and-blood creatures." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In fact, monotheism, as it has played out in history, is a kaleidoscope of monotheist, dualist, polytheist and animist legacies, jumbling together under a single divine umbrella. The average Christian believes in the monotheist God, but also in the dualist Devil, in polytheist saints, and in animist ghosts. Scholars of religion have a name for this simultaneous avowal of different and even contradictory ideas and the combination of rituals and practices taken from different sources. It’s called syncretism. Syncretism might, in fact, be the single great world religion." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Sapiens can cooperate in extremely flexible ways with countless numbers of strangers. That’s why Sapiens rule the world, whereas ants eat our leftovers and chimps are locked up in zoos and research laboratories." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In the age of Facebook and Instagram you can observe this myth-making process more clearly than ever before, because some of it has been outsourced from the mind to the computer. It is fascinating and terrifying to behold people who spend countless hours constructing and embellishing a perfect self online, becoming attached to their own creation, and mistaking it for the truth about themselves.20 That’s how a family holiday fraught with traffic jams, petty squabbles and tense silences becomes a collection of beautiful panoramas, perfect dinners and smiling faces; 99 per cent of what we experience never becomes part of the story of the self.It is particularly noteworthy that our fantasy self tends to be very visual, whereas our actual experiences are corporeal. In the fantasy, you observe a scene in your mind’s eye or on the computer screen. You see yourself standing on a tropical beach, the blue sea behind you, a big smile on your face, one hand holding a cocktail, the other arm around your lover’s waist. Paradise. What the picture does not show is the annoying fly that bites your leg, the cramped feeling in your stomach from eating that rotten fish soup, the tension in your jaw as you fake a big smile, and the ugly fight the happy couple had five minutes ago. If we could only feel what the people in the photos felt while taking them!Hence if you really want to understand yourself, you should not identify with your Facebook account or with the inner story of the self. Instead, you should observe the actual flow of body and mind. You will see thoughts, emotions and desires appear and disappear without much reason and without any command from you, just as different winds blow from this or that direction and mess up your hair. And just as you are not the winds, so also you are not the jumble of thoughts, emotions and desires you experience, and you are certainly not the sanitised story you tell about them with hindsight.You experience all of them, but you don’t control them, you don’t own them, and you are not them. People ask ‘Who am I?’ and expect to be told a story. The first thing you need to know about yourself, is that you are not a story." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Indeed, many movies about artificial intelligence are so divorced from scientific reality that one suspects they are just allegories of completely different concerns. Thus the 2015 movie Ex Machina seems to be about an AI expert who falls in love with a female robot only to be duped and manipulated by her. But in reality, this is not a movie about the human fear of intelligent robots. It is a movie about the male fear of intelligent women, and in particular the fear that female liberation might lead to female domination. Whenever you see a movie about an AI in which the AI is female and the scientist is male, it’s probably a movie about feminism rather than cybernetics. For why on earth would an AI have a sexual or a gender identity? Sex is a characteristic of organic multicellular beings. What can it possibly mean for a non-organic cybernetic being?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“our DNA still thinks we are in the savannah." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“There is some evidence that the size of the average Sapiens brain has actually decreased since the age of foraging.5 Survival in that era required superb mental abilities from everyone. When agriculture and industry came along people could increasingly rely on the skills of others for survival, and new ‘niches for imbeciles’ were opened up. You could survive and pass your unremarkable genes to the next generation by working as a water carrier or an assembly-line worker." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The most common theory points to the fact that men are stronger than women and that they have used their greater physical power to force women into submission. A more subtle version of this claim argues that their strength allows men to monopolize tasks that demand hard manual labor, such as plowing and harvesting. This gives them control of food production, which in turn translates into political clout. There are two problems with this emphasis on muscle power. First, the statement that men are stronger is true only on average and only with regard to certain types of strength. Women are generally more resistant to hunger, disease, and fatigue than men. There are also many women who can run faster and lift heavier weights than many men. Furthermore, and most problematically for this theory, women have, throughout history, mainly been excluded from jobs that required little physical effort, such as the priesthood, law, and politics, while engaging in hard manual labor in the fields....and in the household. If social power were divided in direct relation to physical strength or stamina, women should have got far more of it. Even more importantly, there simply is no direct relation between physical strength and social power among humans. People in their sixties usually exercise power over people in their twenties, even though twenty-somethings are much stronger than their elders. ...Boxing matches were not used to select Egyptian pharaohs or Catholic popes. In forager societies, political dominance generally resides with the person possessing the best social skills rather than the most developed musculature. In fact, human history shows that there is often an inverse relation between physical prowess and social power. In most societies, it’s the lower classes who do the manual labor. Another theory explains that masculine dominance results not from strength but from aggression. Millions of years of evolution have made men far more violent than women. Women can match men as far as hatred, greed, and abuse are concern, but when push comes to shove…men are more willing to engage in raw physical violence. This is why, throughout history, warfare has been a masculine prerogative. In times of war, men’s control of the armed forces has made them the masters of civilian society too. They then use their control of civilian society to fight more and more wars. …Recent studies of the hormonal and cognitive systems of men and women strengthen the assumption that men indeed have more aggressive and violent tendencies and are…on average, better suited to serve as common soldiers. Yet, granted that the common soldiers are all men, does it follow that the ones managing the war and enjoying its fruits must also be men? That makes no sense. It’s like assuming that because all the slaves cultivating cotton fields are all Black, plantation owners will be Black as well. Just as an all-Black workforce might be controlled by an all-White management, why couldn’t an all-male soldiery be controlled by an all-female government?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Terrorists are like a fly that tries to destroy a china shop. The fly is so weak that it cannot budge even a single teacup. So it finds a bull, gets inside its ear and starts buzzing. The bull goes wild with fear and anger, and destroys the china shop. (p.21)" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“You want to know how super-intelligent cyborgs might treat ordinary flesh-and-blood humans? Better start by investigating how humans treat their less intelligent animal cousins. It’s not a perfect analogy, of course, but it is the best archetype we can actually observe rather than just imagine." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Traditionally, life has been divided into two main parts: a period of learning followed by a period of working. Very soon this traditional model will become utterly obsolete, and the only way for humans to stay in the game will be to keep learning throughout their lives, and to reinvent themselves repeatedly. Many if not most humans may be unable to do so." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Over the past 10,000 years, Homo sapiens has grown so accustomed to being the only human species that it’s hard for us to conceive of any other possibility. Our lack of brothers and sisters makes it easier to imagine that we are the epitome of creation, and that a chasm separates us from the rest of the animal kingdom. When Charles Darwin indicated that Homo sapiens was just another kind of animal, people were outraged. Even today many refuse to believe it. Had the Neanderthals survived, would we still imagine ourselves to be a creature apart? Perhaps this is exactly why our ancestors wiped out the Neanderthals. They were too familiar to ignore, but too different to tolerate." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you want to see philosophy in action, pay a visit to a robo-rat laboratory. A robo-rat is a run-ofthe-mill rat with a twist: scientists have implanted electrodes into the sensory and reward areas in the rat’s brain. This enables the scientists to manoeuvre the rat by remote control. After short training sessions, researchers have managed not only to make the rats turn left or right, but also to climb ladders, sniff around garbage piles, and do things that rats normally dislike, such as jumping from great heights. Armies and corporations show keen interest in the robo-rats, hoping they could prove useful in many tasks and situations. For example, robo-rats could help detect survivors trapped under collapsed buildings, locate bombs and booby traps, and map underground tunnels and caves. Animal-welfare activists have voiced concern about the suffering such experiments inflict on the rats. Professor Sanjiv Talwar of the State University of New York, one of the leading robo-rat researchers, has dismissed these concerns, arguing that the rats actually enjoy the experiments. After all, explains Talwar, the rats ‘work for pleasure’ and when the electrodes stimulate the reward centre in their brain, ‘the rat feels Nirvana’.To the best of our understanding, the rat doesn’t feel that somebody else controls her, and she doesn’t feel that she is being coerced to do something against her will. When Professor Talwar presses the remote control, the rat wants to move to the left, which is why she moves to the left. When the professor presses another switch, the rat wants to climb a ladder, which is why she climbs the ladder. After all, the rat’s desires are nothing but a pattern of firing neurons. What does it matter whether the neurons are firing because they are stimulated by other neurons, or because they are stimulated by transplanted electrodes connected to Professor Talwar’s remote control? If you asked the rat about it, she might well have told you, ‘Sure I have free will! Look, I want to turn left – and I turn left. I want to climb a ladder – and I climb a ladder. Doesn’t that prove that I have free will?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“People fear that being trapped inside a box, they will miss out on all the wonders of the world. As long as Neo is stuck inside the matrix, and Truman is stuck inside the TV studio, they will never visit Fiji, or Paris, or Machu Picchu. But in truth, everything you will ever experience in life is within your own body and your own mind. Breaking out of the matrix or travelling to Fiji won’t make any difference. It’s not that somewhere in your mind there is an iron chest with a big red warning sign ‘Open only in Fiji!’ and when you finally travel to the South Pacific you get to open the chest, and out come all kinds of special emotions and feelings that you can have only in Fiji. And if you never visit Fiji in your life, then you missed these special feelings for ever. No. Whatever you can feel in Fiji, you can feel anywhere in the world; even inside the matrix." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Centuries ago human knowledge increased slowly, so politics and economics changed at a leisurely pace too. Today our knowledge is increasing at breakneck speed, and theoretically we should understand the world better and better. But the very opposite is happening. Our new-found knowledge leads to faster economic, social and political changes; in an attempt to understand what is happening, we accelerate the accumulation of knowledge, which leads only to faster and greater upheavals. Consequently we are less and less able to make sense of the present or forecast the future. In 1016 it was relatively easy to predict how Europe would look in 1050. Sure, dynasties might fall, unknown raiders might invade, and natural disasters might strike; yet it was clear that in 1050 Europe would still be ruled by kings and priests, that it would be an agricultural society, that most of its inhabitants would be peasants, and that it would continue to suffer greatly from famines, plagues and wars. In contrast, in 2016 we have no idea how Europe will look in 2050. We cannot say what kind of political system it will have, how its job market will be structured, or even what kind of bodies its inhabitants will possess." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Consistency is the playground of dull minds" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The greatest scientific discovery was the discovery of ignorance." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If Kindle is upgraded with face recognition and biometric sensors, it can know what made you laugh, what made you sad and what made you angry. Soon, books will read you while you are reading them." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“First, if you want reliable information, pay good money for it. If you get your news for free, you might well be the product." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The Theory of Relativity makes nobody angry because it doesn't contradict any of our cherished beliefs. Most people don't care an iota whether space and time are absolute or relative. If you think it is possible to bend space and time, well be my guest. ...In contrast, Darwin has deprived us of our souls. If you really understand the Theory of Evolution, you understand that there is no soul. This is a terrifying thought, not only to devote Christians and Muslims, but also to many secular people who don't hold any clear religious dogma, but nevertheless, want to believe that each human possess an eternal, individual essence that remains unchanged throughout life and can survive even death intact." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The glass ceiling of happiness is held in place by two stout pillars, one psychological, the other biological. On the psychological level, happiness depends on expectations rather than objective conditions. We don’t become satisfied by leading a peaceful and prosperous existence. Rather, we become satisfied when reality matches our expectations. The bad news is that as conditions improve, expectations balloon. Dramatic improvements in conditions, as humankind has experienced in recent decades, translate into greater expectations rather than greater contentment. If we don’t do something about this, our future achievements too might leave us as dissatisfied as ever. On" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If pupils suffer from attention disorders, stress and low grades, perhaps we ought to blame outdated teaching methods, overcrowded classrooms and an unnaturally fast tempo of life." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The first step is to tone down the prophecies of doom, and switch from panic mode to bewilderment. Panic is a form of hubris. It comes from the smug feeling that I know exactly where the world is heading – down. Bewilderment is more humble, and therefore more clear-sighted. If you feel like running down the street crying ‘The apocalypse is upon us!’, try telling yourself ‘No, it’s not that. Truth is, I just don’t understand what’s going on in the world." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Poverty, sickness, wars, famines old age and death itself were not the inevitable fate of humankind. They were simply the fruits of our ignorance." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Immediately after birth the calf is separated from its mother and locked inside a tiny cage not much bigger than the calf’s own body. There the calf spends its entire life – about four months on average. It never leaves its cage, nor is it allowed to play with other calves or even walk – all so that its muscles will not grow strong. Soft muscles mean a soft and juicy steak. The first time the calf has a chance to walk, stretch its muscles and touch other calves is on its way to the slaughterhouse. In evolutionary terms, cattle represent one of the most successful animal species ever to exist. At the same time, they are some of the most miserable animals on the planet." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights, that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. According to the science of biology, people were not ‘created’. They have evolved. And they certainly did not evolve to be ‘equal’. The idea of equality is inextricably intertwined with the idea of creation. The Americans got the idea of equality from Christianity, which argues that every person has a divinely created soul, and that all souls are equal before God. However, if we do not believe in the Christian myths about God, creation and souls, what does it mean that all people are ‘equal’? Evolution is based on difference, not on equality. Every person carries a somewhat different genetic code, and is exposed from birth to different environmental influences. This leads to the development of different qualities that carry with them different chances of survival. ‘Created equal’ should therefore be translated into ‘evolved differently’. Just as people were never created, neither, according to the science of biology, is there a ‘Creator’ who ‘endows’ them with anything. There is only a blind evolutionary process, devoid of any purpose, leading to the birth of individuals. ‘Endowed by their creator’ should be translated simply into ‘born’. Equally, there are no such things as rights in biology. There are only organs, abilities and characteristics. Birds fly not because they have a right to fly, but because they have wings. And it’s not true that these organs, abilities and characteristics are ‘unalienable’. Many of them undergo constant mutations, and may well be completely lost over time. The ostrich is a bird that lost its ability to fly. So ‘unalienable rights’ should be translated into ‘mutable characteristics’. And what are the characteristics that evolved in humans? ‘Life’, certainly. But ‘liberty’? There is no such thing in biology. Just like equality, rights and limited liability companies, liberty is something that people invented and that exists only in their imagination. From a biological viewpoint, it is meaningless to say that humans in democratic societies are free, whereas humans in dictatorships are unfree. And what about ‘happiness’? So far biological research has failed to come up with a clear definition of happiness or a way to measure it objectively. Most biological studies acknowledge only the existence of pleasure, which is more easily defined and measured. So ‘life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness’ should be translated into ‘life and the pursuit of pleasure’. So here is that line from the American Declaration of Independence translated into biological terms: We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men evolved differently, that they are born with certain mutable characteristics, and that among these are life and the pursuit of pleasure." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The body of Homo sapiens had not evolved for such tasks. It was adapted to climbing apple trees and running after gazelles, not to clearing rocks and carrying water buckets. Human spines, knees, necks and arches paid the price. Studies of ancient skeletons indicate that the transition to agriculture brought about a plethora of ailments, such as slipped discs, arthritis and hernias. Moreover, the new agricultural tasks demanded so much time that people were forced to settle permanently next to their wheat fields. This completely changed their way of life. We did not domesticate wheat. It domesticated us. The word ‘domesticate’ comes from the Latin domus, which means ‘house’. Who’s the one living in a house? Not the wheat. It’s the Sapiens." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The fundamental insight of polytheism, which distinguishes it from monotheism, is that the supreme power governing the world is devoid of interests and biases, and therefore it is unconcerned with the mundane desires, cares and worries of humans." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“How do you cause people to believe in an imagined order such as Christianity, democracy or capitalism? First, you never admit that the order is imagined. You always insist that the order sustaining society is an objective reality created by the great gods or by the laws of nature. People are unequal, not because Hammurabi said so, but because Enlil and Marduk decreed it. People are equal, not because Thomas Jefferson said so, but because God created them that way. Free markets are the best economic system, not because Adam Smith said so, but because these are the immutable laws of nature." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Does happiness really depend on self-delusion?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In the wake of the Cognitive Revolution, gossip helped Homo sapiens to form larger and more stable bands. But even gossip has its limits. Sociological research has shown that the maximum ‘natural’ size of a group bonded by gossip is about 150 individuals. Most people can neither intimately know, nor gossip effectively about, more than 150 human beings." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“To attain real happiness, humans need to slow down the pursuit of pleasant sensations, not accelerate it." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“History cannot be explained deterministically and it cannot be predicted because it is chaotic. So many forces are at work and their interactions are so complex that extremely small variations in the strength of the forces and the way they interact produce huge differences in outcomes. Not only that, but history is what is called a ‘level two’ chaotic system. Chaotic systems come in two shapes. Level one chaos is chaos that does not react to predictions about it. The weather, for example, is a level one chaotic system. Though it is influenced by myriad factors, we can build computer models that take more and more of them into consideration, and produce better and better weather forecasts. Level two chaos is chaos that reacts to predictions about it, and therefore can never be predicted accurately. Markets, for example, are a level two chaotic system. What will happen if we develop a computer program that forecasts with 100 per cent accuracy the price of oil tomorrow? The price of oil will immediately react to the forecast, which would consequently fail to materialise. If the current price of oil is $90 a barrel, and the infallible computer program predicts that tomorrow it will be $100, traders will rush to buy oil so that they can profit from the predicted price rise. As a result, the price will shoot up to $100 a barrel today rather than tomorrow. Then what will happen tomorrow? Nobody knows." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Not only rationality, but individuality too is a myth. Humans rarely think for themselves. Rather, we think in groups. Just as it takes a tribe to raise a child, it also takes a tribe to invent a tool, solve a conflict, or cure a disease. No individual knows everything it takes to build a cathedral, an atom bomb, or an aircraft. What gave Homo sapiens an edge over all other animals and turned us into the masters of the planet was not our individual rationality but our unparalleled ability to think together in large groups.1" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Thousands of years before our liberal age, ancient Buddhism went further by denying not just all cosmic dramas, but even the inner drama of human creation. The universe has no meaning, and human feelings too are not part of a great cosmic tale. They are ephemeral vibrations, appearing and disappearing for no particular purpose. That’s the truth. Get over it." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“So perhaps happiness is synchronizing one's personal delusions of meaning with the prevailing collective delusions. As long as my personal narrative is in line with the narratives of the people around me, I can convince myself that my life is meaningful, and find happiness in that conviction." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Romanticism, which encourages variety, meshes perfectly with consumerism." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“We are full of fears and anxieties over our position, which makes us doubly cruel and dangerous." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Modern business-people and lawyers are, in fact, powerful sorcerers. The principal difference between them and tribal shamans is that modern lawyers tell far stranger tales." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Homo sapiens is just not built for satisfaction. Human happiness depends less on objective condition and more on our own expectations. Expectations, however, tend to adapt to conditions, including to the condition of other people. When things improve, expectations balloon, and consequently even dramatic improvement in conditions might leave us as dissatisfied as before." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“When the Spaniards first arrived in Mexico, natives bearing incense burners were assigned to accompany them wherever they went. The Spaniards thought it was a mark of divine honour. We know from native sources that they found the newcomers’ smell unbearable.)" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The liberal story instructs me to seek freedom to express and realise myself. But both the ‘self’ and freedom are mythological chimeras borrowed from the fairy tales of ancient times. Liberalism has a particularly confused notion of ‘free will’. Humans obviously have a will, they have desires, and they are sometimes free to fulfil their desires. If by ‘free will’ you mean the freedom to do what you desire – then yes, humans have free will. But if by ‘free will’ you mean the freedom to choose what to desire – then no, humans have no free will." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Intelligence is the ability to solve problems. Consciousness is the ability to feel things such as pain, joy, love, and anger. We tend to confuse the two because in humans and other mammals intelligence goes hand in hand with consciousness. Mammals solve most problems by feeling things. Computers, however, solve problems in a very different way." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It’s relatively easy to agree that only Homo sapiens can speak about things that don’t really exist, and believe six impossible things before breakfast. You could never convince a monkey to give you a banana by promising him limitless bananas after death in monkey heaven. But why is it important? After all, fiction can be dangerously misleading or distracting. People who go to the forest looking for fairies and unicorns would seem to have less chance of survival than people who go looking for mushrooms and deer. And if you spend hours praying to non-existing guardian spirits, aren’t you wasting precious time, time better spent foraging, fighting, and fornicating?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Whatever is possible is by definition also natural." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Gautama's insight was that no matter what the mind experiences, it usually reacts with craving, and craving always involves dissatisfaction. When the mind experiences something distasteful it craves to be rid of the irritation. When the mind experiences something pleasant, it craves that the pleasure will remain and will intensify. Therefore, the mind is always dissatisfied and restless. This is very clear when we experience unpleasant things, such as pain. As long as the pain continues, we are dissatisfied and do all we can to avoid it. Yet even when we experience pleasant things we are never content. We either fear that the pleasure might disappear, or we hope that it will intensify." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“When we break down our prison walls and run towards freedom, we are in fact running into the more spacious exercise yard of a bigger prison." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you are really in love with someone, you never worry about the meaning of life." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The first principle of monotheist religions is ‘God exists. What does He want from me?’ The first principle of Buddhism is ‘Suffering exists. How do I escape it?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In the past, censorship worked by blocking the flow of information. In the 21st century, censorship works by flooding people with irrelevant information. People just don't know what to pay attention to, and they often spend their time investigating and debating side issues." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Homo sapiens has no natural rights, just as spiders, hyenas and chimpanzees have no natural rights." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The insight of polytheism is conducive to far-reaching religious tolerance. Since polytheists believe, on the one hand, in one supreme and completely disinterested power, and on the other hand in many partial and biased powers, there is no difficulty for the devotees of one god to accept the existence and efficacy of other gods. Polytheism is inherently open-minded, and rarely persecutes ‘heretics’ and ‘infidels’." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“A good rule of thumb is ‘Biology enables, culture forbids.’ Biology is willing to tolerate a very wide spectrum of possibilities. It’s culture that obliges people to realise some possibilities while forbidding others." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“And what is ‘sensitivity’? It means two things. Firstly, paying attention to my sensations, emotions and thoughts. Secondly, allowing these sensations, emotions and thoughts to influence me." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Following Homo sapiens, domesticated cattle, pigs and sheep are the second, third and fourth most widespread large mammals in the world. From a narrow evolutionary perspective, which measures success by the number of DNA copies, the Agricultural Revolution was a wonderful boon for chickens, cattle, pigs and sheep. Unfortunately, the evolutionary perspective is an incomplete measure of success. It judges everything by the criteria of survival and reproduction, with no regard for individual suffering and happiness. Domesticated chickens and cattle may well be an evolutionary success story, but they are also among the most miserable creatures that ever lived. The domestication of animals was founded on a series of brutal practices that only became crueller with the passing of the centuries. The natural lifespan of wild chickens is about seven to twelve years, and of cattle about twenty to twenty-five years. In the wild, most chickens and cattle died long before that, but they still had a fair chance of living for a respectable number of years. In contrast, the vast majority of domesticated chickens and cattle are slaughtered at the age of between a few weeks and a few months, because this has always been the optimal slaughtering age from an economic perspective. (Why keep feeding a cock for three years if it has already reached its maximum weight after three months?) Egg-laying hens, dairy cows and draught animals are sometimes allowed to live for many years. But the price is subjugation to a way of life completely alien to their urges and desires. It’s reasonable to assume, for example, that bulls prefer to spend their days wandering over open prairies in the company of other bulls and cows rather than pulling carts and ploughshares under the yoke of a whip-wielding ape. In order for humans to turn bulls, horses, donkeys and camels into obedient draught animals, their natural instincts and social ties had to be broken, their aggression and sexuality contained, and their freedom of movement curtailed. Farmers developed techniques such as locking animals inside pens and cages, bridling them in harnesses and leashes, training them with whips and cattle prods, and mutilating them. The process of taming almost always involves the castration of males. This restrains male aggression and enables humans selectively to control the herd’s procreation." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Diogenes, the Greek philosopher who founded the Cynical school, lived in a barrel. When Alexander the Great once visited Diogenes as he was relaxing in the sun, and asked if there were anything he might do for him, the Cynic answered the all-powerful conqueror, ‘Yes, there is something you can do for me. Please move a little to the side. You are blocking the sunlight." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“How did Homo sapiens manage to cross this critical threshold, eventually founding cities comprising tens of thousands of inhabitants and empires ruling hundreds of millions? The secret was probably the appearance of fiction. Large numbers of strangers can cooperate successfully by believing in common myths. Any large-scale human cooperation – whether a modern state, a medieval church, an ancient city or an archaic tribe – is rooted in common myths that exist only in people’s collective imagination. Churches are rooted in common religious myths. Two Catholics who have never met can nevertheless go together on crusade or pool funds to build a hospital because they both believe that God was incarnated in human flesh and allowed Himself to be crucified to redeem our sins. States are rooted in common national myths. Two Serbs who have never met might risk their lives to save one another because both believe in the existence of the Serbian nation, the Serbian homeland and the Serbian flag. Judicial systems are rooted in common legal myths. Two lawyers who have never met can nevertheless combine efforts to defend a complete stranger because they both believe in the existence of laws, justice, human rights – and the money paid out in fees." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you were an eighteen-year-old youth in a small village 5,000 years ago you’d probably think you were good-looking because there were only fifty other men in your village and most of them were either old, scarred and wrinkled, or still little kids. But if you are a teenager today you are a lot more likely to feel inadequate. Even if the other guys at school are an ugly lot, you don’t measure yourself against them but against the movie stars, athletes and supermodels you see all day on television, Facebook and giant billboards." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“We cannot explain the choices that history makes, but we can say something very important about them: history’s choices are not made for the benefit of humans." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Similar ecological disasters occurred on almost every one of the thousands of islands that pepper the Atlantic Ocean, Indian Ocean, Arctic Ocean and Mediterranean Sea. Archaeologists have discovered on even the tiniest islands evidence of the existence of birds, insects and snails that lived there for countless generations, only to vanish when the first human farmers arrived. None but a few extremely remote islands escaped man’s notice until the modern age, and these islands kept their fauna intact. The Galapagos Islands, to give one famous example, remained uninhabited by humans until the nineteenth century, thus preserving their unique menagerie, including their giant tortoises, which, like the ancient diprotodons, show no fear of humans. The First Wave Extinction, which accompanied the spread of the foragers, was followed by the Second Wave Extinction, which accompanied the spread of the farmers, and gives us an important perspective on the Third Wave Extinction, which industrial activity is causing today. Don’t believe tree-huggers who claim that our ancestors lived in harmony with nature. Long before the Industrial Revolution, Homo sapiens held the record among all organisms for driving the most plant and animal species to their extinctions. We have the dubious distinction of being the deadliest species in the annals of biology. Perhaps if more people were aware of the First Wave and Second Wave extinctions, they’d be less nonchalant about the Third Wave they are part of. If we knew how many species we’ve already eradicated, we might be more motivated to protect those that still survive. This is especially relevant to the large animals of the oceans." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If happiness is determined by expectations, then two pillars of our society – mass media and the advertising industry – may unwittingly be depleting the globe’s reservoirs of contentment. If you were an eighteen-year-old youth in a small village 5,000 years ago you’d probably think you were good-looking because there were only fifty other men in your village and most of them were either old, scarred and wrinkled, or still little kids. But if you are a teenager today you are a lot more likely to feel inadequate. Even if the other guys at school are an ugly lot, you don’t measure yourself against them but against the movie stars, athletes and supermodels you see all day on television, Facebook and giant billboards." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Farmers tend to eat a very limited and unbalanced diet. Especially in premodern times, most of the calories feeding an agricultural population came from a single crop – such as wheat, potatoes or rice – that lacks some of the vitamins, minerals and other nutritional materials humans need. The typical peasant in traditional China ate rice for breakfast, rice for lunch, and rice for dinner. If she were lucky, she could expect to eat the same on the following day. By contrast, ancient foragers regularly ate dozens of different foodstuffs. The peasant’s ancient ancestor, the forager, may have eaten berries and mushrooms for breakfast; fruits, snails and turtle for lunch; and rabbit steak with wild onions for dinner. Tomorrow’s menu might have been completely different. This variety ensured that the ancient foragers received all the necessary nutrients." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In a world in which everything is interconnected, the supreme moral imperative becomes the imperative to know." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The slave trade was not controlled by any state or government. It was a purely economic enterprise, organised and financed by the free market according to the laws of supply and demand. Private slave-trading companies sold shares on the Amsterdam, London and Paris stock exchanges. Middle-class Europeans looking for a good investment bought these shares. Relying on this money, the companies bought ships, hired sailors and soldiers, purchased slaves in Africa, and transported them to America. There they sold the slaves to the plantation owners, using the proceeds to purchase plantation products such as sugar, cocoa, coffee, tobacco, cotton and rum." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“When people design web pages, they often cater to the taste of the Google search algorithm rather than to the taste of any human being." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Secularism should not be equated with Stalinist dogmatism or with the bitter fruits of Western imperialism and runaway industrialisation. Yet it cannot shirk all responsibility for them, either. Secular movements and scientific institutions have mesmerised billions with promises to perfect humanity and to utilise the bounty of planet Earth for the benefit of our species. Such promises resulted not just in overcoming plagues and famines, but also in gulags and melting ice caps. You might well argue that this is all the fault of people misunderstanding and distorting the core secular ideals and the true facts of science. And you are absolutely right. But that is a common problem for all influential movements.For example, Christianity has been responsible for great crimes such as the Inquisition, the Crusades, the oppression of native cultures across the world, and the disempowerment of women. A Christian might take offence at this and retort that all these crimes resulted from a complete misunderstanding of Christianity. Jesus preached only love, and the Inquisition was based on a horrific distortion of his teachings. We can sympathise with this claim, but it would be a mistake to let Christianity off the hook so easily. Christians appalled by the Inquisition and by the Crusades cannot just wash their hands of these atrocities – they should rather ask themselves some very tough questions. How exactly did their ‘religion of love’ allow itself to be distorted in such a way, and not once, but numerous times? Protestants who try to blame it all on Catholic fanaticism are advised to read a book about the behaviour of Protestant colonists in Ireland or in North America. Similarly, Marxists should ask themselves what it was about the teachings of Marx that paved the way to the Gulag, scientists should consider how the scientific project lent itself so easily to destabilising the global ecosystem, and geneticists in particular should take warning from the way the Nazis hijacked Darwinian theories." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Earlier traditions usually formulated their theories in terms of stories. Modern science uses mathematics." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The most famous lenders in nature are vampire bats. These bats congregate in the thousands inside caves, and every night fly out to look for prey. When they find a sleeping bird or careless mammal, they make a small incision in its skin, and suck its blood. But not all vampire bats find a victim every night. In order to cope with the uncertainty of their life, the vampires loan blood to each other. A vampire that fails to find prey will come home and ask a more fortunate friend to regurgitate some stolen blood. Vampires remember very well to whom they loaned blood, so at a later date if the friend returns home hungry, he will approach his debtor, who will reciprocate the favour. However, unlike human bankers, vampires never charge interest." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Whichever way it happened, the Neanderthals (and the other human species) pose one of history’s great what ifs. Imagine how things might have turned out had the Neanderthals or Denisovans survived alongside Homo sapiens. What kind of cultures, societies and political structures would have emerged in a world where several different human species coexisted? How, for example, would religious faiths have unfolded? Would the book of Genesis have declared that Neanderthals descend from Adam and Eve, would Jesus have died for the sins of the Denisovans, and would the Qur’an have reserved seats in heaven for all righteous humans, whatever their species? Would Neanderthals have been able to serve in the Roman legions, or in the sprawling bureaucracy of imperial China? Would the American Declaration of Independence hold as a self-evident truth that all members of the genus Homo are created equal? Would Karl Marx have urged workers of all species to unite?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Humans have this remarkable ability to know and not to know at the same time. Or more correctly, they can know something when they really think about it, but most of the time they don’t think about it, so they don’t know it. If you really focus, you realise that money is fiction. But usually you don’t focus. If you are asked about it, you know that football is a human invention. But in the heat of the match, nobody asks you about it. If you devote the time and energy, you can discover that nations are elaborate yarns. But in the midst of a war you don’t have the time and energy. If you demand the ultimate truth, you realise that the story of Adam and Eve is a myth. But how often do you demand the ultimate truth?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you cannot afford to waste time, you will never find the truth." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Gender is a race in which some of the runners compete only for the bronze medal." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In fact, as time goes by, it becomes easier and easier to replace humans with computer algorithms, not merely because the algorithms are getting smarter, but also because humans are professionalising. Ancient hunter-gatherers mastered a very wide variety of skills in order to survive, which is why it would be immensely difficult to design a robotic hunter-gatherer. Such a robot would have to know how to prepare spear points from flint stones, how to find edible mushrooms in a forest, how to use medicinal herbs to bandage a wound, how to track down a mammoth and how to coordinate a charge with a dozen other hunters. However, over the last few thousand years we humans have been specialising. A taxi driver or a cardiologist specialises in a much narrower niche than a hunter-gatherer, which makes it easier to replace them with AI." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“For the first time in history, more people die today from eating too much than from eating too little; more people die from old age than from infectious diseases; and more people commit suicide than are killed by soldiers, terrorists and criminals combined." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The scientist who says her life is meaningful because she increases the store of human knowledge, the soldier who declares that his life is meaningful because he fights to defend his homeland, and the entrepreneur who finds meaning in building a new company are no less delusional than their medieval counterparts who found meaning in reading scriptures, going on a crusade or building a new cathedral." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“When a thousand people believe some made-up story for a month - that's fake news. When a billion people believe it for a thousand years - that's religion, and we are admonished to call it fake news in oder not to for the feelings of the faithful." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The first thing you need to know about yourself is that you are not a story." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“This is a key to understanding our history and psychology. Genus Homo’s position in the food chain was, until quite recently, solidly in the middle. For millions of years, humans hunted smaller creatures and gathered what they could, all the while being hunted by larger predators. It was only 400,000 years ago that several species of man began to hunt large game on a regular basis, and only in the last 100,000 years – with the rise of Homo sapiens – that man jumped to the top of the food chain. That spectacular leap from the middle to the top had enormous consequences. Other animals at the top of the pyramid, such as lions and sharks, evolved into that position very gradually, over millions of years. This enabled the ecosystem to develop checks and balances that prevent lions and sharks from wreaking too much havoc. As lions became deadlier, so gazelles evolved to run faster, hyenas to cooperate better, and rhinoceroses to be more bad-tempered. In contrast, humankind ascended to the top so quickly that the ecosystem was not given time to adjust. Moreover, humans themselves failed to adjust. Most top predators of the planet are majestic creatures. Millions of years of dominion have filled them with self-confidence. Sapiens by contrast is more like a banana republic dictator. Having so recently been one of the underdogs of the savannah, we are full of fears and anxieties over our position, which makes us doubly cruel and dangerous. Many historical calamities, from deadly wars to ecological catastrophes, have resulted from this over-hasty jump." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Humans in Europe and western Asia evolved into Homo neanderthalensis (‘Man from the Neander Valley’), popularly referred to simply as ‘Neanderthals’. Neanderthals, bulkier and more muscular than us Sapiens, were well adapted to the cold climate of Ice Age western Eurasia. The more eastern regions of Asia were populated by Homo erectus, ‘Upright Man’, who survived there for close to 2 million years, making it the most durable human species ever. This record is unlikely to be broken even by our own species. It is doubtful whether Homo sapiens will still be around a thousand years from now, so 2 million years is really out of our league." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“More than 90 percent of these accidents are caused by very human errors: somebody drinking alcohol and driving, somebody texting a message while driving, somebody falling asleep at the wheel, somebody daydreaming instead of paying attention to the road. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration estimated in 2012 that 31 percent of fatal crashes in the United States involved alcohol abuse, 30 percent involved speeding, and 21 percent involved distracted drivers.7 Self-driving vehicles will never do any of these things. Though they suffer from their own problems and limitations, and though some accidents are inevitable, replacing all human drivers by computers is expected to reduce deaths and injuries on the road by about 90 percent.8 In other words, switching to autonomous vehicles is likely to save the lives of one million people every year." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“By equating the human experience with data patterns, Dataism undermines our main source of authority and meaning, and heralds a tremendous religious revolution, the like of which has not been seen since the eighteenth century. In the days of Locke, Hume and Voltaire humanists argued that ‘God is a product of the human imagination’. Dataism now gives humanists a taste of their own medicine, and tells them: ‘Yes, God is a product of the human imagination, but human imagination in turn is the product of biochemical algorithms.’ In the eighteenth century, humanism sidelined God by shifting from a deo-centric to a homo-centric world view. In the twenty-first century, Dataism may sideline humans by shifting from a homo-centric to a data-centric view. The" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“So if you blame Facebook, Trump, or Putin for ushering in a new and frightening era of post-truth, remind yourself that centuries ago millions of Christians locked themselves inside a self-reinforcing mythological bubble, never daring to question the factual veracity of the Bible, while millions of Muslims put their unquestioning faith in the Quran. For millennia, much of what passed for “news” and “facts” in human social networks were stories about miracles, angels, demons, and witches, with bold reporters giving live coverage straight from the deepest pits of the underworld. We have zero scientific evidence that Eve was tempted by the serpent, that the souls of all infidels burn in hell after they die, or that the creator of the universe doesn’t like it when a Brahmin marries a Dalit—yet billions of people have believed in these stories for thousands of years. Some fake news lasts forever." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“the St Bartholomew’s Day Massacre, between 5,000 and 10,000 Protestants were slaughtered in less than twenty-four hours. When the pope in Rome heard the news from France, he was so overcome by joy that he organised festive prayers to celebrate the occasion and commissioned Giorgio Vasari to decorate one of the Vatican’s rooms with a fresco of the massacre (the room is currently off-limits to visitors).2 More Christians were killed by fellow Christians in those twenty-four hours than by the polytheistic Roman Empire throughout its entire existence." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you want to make people believe in imaginary entities such as gods and nations, you should make them sacrifice something valuable." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“No investigation of our divine future can ignore our own animal past, or our relations with other animals – because the relationship between humans and animals is the best model we have for future relations between superhumans and humans. You" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“For more than 2 million years, human neural networks kept growing and growing, but apart from some flint knives and pointed sticks, humans had precious little to show for it. What then drove forward the evolution of the massive human brain during those 2 million years? Frankly, we don’t know." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“We are now creating tame humans that produce enormous amounts of data and function as very efficient chips in a huge data-processing mechanism, but these data-cows hardly maximize the human potential. Indeed, we have no idea what our full human potential is, because we know so little about the human mind. And yet we don’t invest much in exploring the human mind, instead focusing on increasing the speed of our internet connections and the efficiency of our Big Data algorithms. If we are not careful, we will end up with downgraded humans misusing upgraded computers to wreak havoc on themselves and on the world." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Most previous ethical systems presented people with a pretty tough deal. They were promised paradise, but only if they cultivated compassion and tolerance, overcame craving and anger, and restrained their selfish interests. This was too tough for most. The history of ethics is a sad tale of wonderful ideals that nobody can live up to. Most Christians did not imitate Christ, most Buddhists failed to follow Buddha, and most Confucians would have caused Confucius a temper tantrum. In contrast, most people today successfully live up to the capitalist–consumerist ideal. The new ethic promises paradise on condition that the rich remain greedy and spend their time making more money, and that the masses give free rein to their cravings and passions – and buy more and more. This is the first religion in history whose followers actually do what they are asked to do. How, though, do we know that we’ll really get paradise in return? We’ve seen it on television." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If Marx came back to life today, he would probably urge his few remaining disciples to devote less time to reading Das Kapital and more time to studying the Internet and the human genome." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“So the best advice I can give a fifteen-year-old stuck in an outdated school somewhere in Mexico, India, or Alabama is: don’t rely on the adults too much. Most of them mean well, but they just don’t understand the world. In the past, it was a relatively safe bet to follow the adults, because they knew the world quite well, and the world changed slowly. But the twenty-first century is going to be different. Because of the increasing pace of change, you can never be certain whether what the adults are telling you is timeless wisdom or outdated bias." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“There are no longer natural famines in the world; there are only political famines. If people in Syria, Sudan or Somalia starve to death, it is because some politician wants them to. In" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“For religions, spirituality is a dangerous threat." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If we think in term of months, we had probably focus on immediate problems such as the turmoil in the Middle East, the refugee crisis in Europe and the slowing of the Chinese economy. If we think in terms of decades, then global warming, growing inequality and the disruption of the job market loom large. Yet if we take the really grand view of life, all other problems and developments are overshadowed by three interlinked processes: 1.​Science is converging on an all-encompassing dogma, which says that organisms are algorithms and life is data processing. 2.​Intelligence is decoupling from consciousness. 3.​Non-conscious but highly intelligent algorithms may soon know us better than we know ourselves. These three processes raise three key questions, which I hope will stick in your mind long after you have finished this book: 1.​Are organisms really just algorithms, and is life really just data processing? 2.​What’s more valuable – intelligence or consciousness? 3.​What will happen to society, politics and daily life when non-conscious but highly intelligent algorithms know us better than we know ourselves?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Yet Smith’s claim that the selfish human urge to increase private profits is the basis for collective wealth is one of the most revolutionary ideas in human history – revolutionary not just from an economic perspective, but even more so from a moral and political perspective. What Smith says is, in fact, that greed is good, and that by becoming richer I benefit everybody, not just myself. Egoism is altruism." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The natural lifespan of wild chickens is about seven to twelve years, and of cattle about twenty to twenty-five years. In the wild, most chickens and cattle died long before that, but they still had a fair chance of living for a respectable number of years. In contrast, the vast majority of domesticated chickens and cattle are slaughtered at the age of between a few weeks and a few months, because this has always been the optimal slaughtering age from an economic perspective. (Why keep feeding a cock for three years if it has already reached its maximum weight after three months?) Egg-laying hens, dairy cows and draught animals are sometimes allowed to live for many years. But the price is subjugation to a way of life completely alien to their urges and desires. It’s reasonable to assume, for example, that bulls prefer to spend their days wandering over open prairies in the company of other bulls and cows rather than pulling carts and ploughshares under the yoke of a whip-wielding ape." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you want to make people believe in imaginary entities such as gods and nations, you should make them sacrifice something valuable. The more painful the sacrifice, the more convinced people are of the existence of the imaginary recipient." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If modernity has a motto, it is ‘shit happens’. On" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“We cannot explain the choices that history makes, but we can say something very important about them: history’s choices are not made for the benefit of humans. There is absolutely no proof that human well-being inevitably improves as history rolls along." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Christians and Muslims who could not agree on religious beliefs could nevertheless agree on a monetary belief, because whereas religion asks us to believe in something, money asks us to believe that other people believe in something." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It is an iron rule of history that what looks inevitable in hindsight was far from obvious at the time." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“How did Homo sapiens manage to cross this critical threshold, eventually founding cities comprising tens of thousands of inhabitants and empires ruling hundreds of millions? The secret was probably the appearance of fiction. Large numbers of strangers can cooperate successfully by believing in common myths. Any large-scale human cooperation – whether a modern state, a medieval church, an ancient city or an archaic tribe – is rooted in common myths that exist only in people’s collective imagination." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“People rarely appreciate their ignorance, because they lock themselves inside an echo chamber of like-minded friends and self-confirming news feeds, where their beliefs are constantly reinforced and seldom challenged.3" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Medieval crusaders believed that God and heaven provided their lives with meaning; modern liberals believe that individual free choices provide life with meaning. They are all equally delusional." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“the better we understand history, the faster history alters its course, and the faster our knowledge becomes outdated." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“When Epicurus defined happiness as the supreme good, he warned his disciples that it is hard work to be happy. Material achievements alone will not satisfy us for long. Indeed, the blind pursuit of money, fame and pleasure will only make us miserable. Epicurus recommended, for example, to eat and drink in moderation, and to curb one’s sexual appetites. In the long run, a deep friendship will make us more content than a frenzied orgy. Epicurus" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Humans vote with their feet." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Starving children have no liberties." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What some people hope to get by studying, working or raising a family, others try to obtain far more easily through the right dosage of molecules. This is an existential threat to the social and economic order, which is why countries wage a stubborn, bloody and hopeless war on biochemical crime." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Have you seen those zombies who roam the streets with their faces glued to their smartphones? Do you think they control the technology, or does the technology control them?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Money is accordingly a system of mutual trust, and not just any system of mutual trust: money is the most universal and most efficient system of mutual trust ever devised." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“[Many people] are happy to follow the advice of their smartphones or to take whatever drug the doctor prescribes, but when they hear of upgraded superhumans, they say: 'I hope, I will be dead before that happens" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Climbing Mount Everest is more satisfying than standing at the top; flirting and foreplay are more exciting than having an orgasm; and conducting groundbreaking lab experiments is more interesting than receiving praise and prizes." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“This discrepancy between evolutionary success and individual suffering is perhaps the most important lesson we can draw from the Agricultural Revolution. When we study the narrative of plants such as wheat and maize, maybe the purely evolutionary perspective makes sense. Yet in the case of animals such as cattle, sheep and Sapiens, each with a complex world of sensations and emotions, we have to consider how evolutionary success translates into individual experience." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Anyone who has ever dealt with the tax authorities, the educational system or any other complex bureaucracy knows that the truth hardly matters. What’s written on your form is far more important." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Survival in that era required superb mental abilities from everyone. When agriculture and industry came along people could increasingly rely on the skills of others for survival, and new ‘niches for imbeciles’ were opened up. You could survive and pass your unremarkable genes to the next generation by working as a water carrier or an assembly-line worker." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Finally, we can congratulate ourselves on the unprecedented accomplishments of modern Sapiens only if we completely ignore the fate of all other animals. Much of the vaunted material wealth that shields us from disease and famine was accumulated at the expense of laboratory monkeys, dairy cows and conveyor-belt chickens. Over the last two centuries tens of billions of them have been subjected to a regime of industrial exploitation whose cruelty has no precedent in the annals of planet Earth. If we accept a mere tenth of what animal-rights activists are claiming, then modern industrial agriculture might well be the greatest crime in history. When evaluating global happiness, it is wrong to count the happiness only of the upper classes, of Europeans or of men. Perhaps it is also wrong to consider only the happiness of humans." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“How can we distinguish what is biologically determined from what people merely try to justify through biological myths? A good rule of thumb is ‘Biology enables, culture forbids.’ Biology is willing to tolerate a very wide spectrum of possibilities. It’s culture that obliges people to realise some possibilities while forbidding others. Biology enables women to have children – some cultures oblige women to realise this possibility. Biology enables men to enjoy sex with one another – some cultures forbid them to realise this possibility. Culture tends to argue that it forbids only that which is unnatural. But from a biological perspective, nothing is unnatural. Whatever is possible is by definition also natural. A truly unnatural behaviour, one that goes against the laws of nature, simply cannot exist, so it would need no prohibition. No culture has ever bothered to forbid men to photosynthesise, women to run faster than the speed of light, or negatively charged electrons to be attracted to each other. In truth, our concepts ‘natural’ and ‘unnatural’ are taken not from biology, but from Christian theology. The theological meaning of ‘natural’ is ‘in accordance with the intentions of the God who created nature’. Christian theologians argued that God created the human body, intending each limb and organ to serve a particular purpose. If we use our limbs and organs for the purpose envisioned by God, then it is a natural activity. To use them differently than God intends is unnatural. But evolution has no purpose. Organs have not evolved with a purpose, and the way they are used is in constant flux. There is not a single organ in the human body that only does the job its prototype did when it first appeared hundreds of millions of years ago. Organs evolve to perform a particular function, but once they exist, they can be adapted for other usages as well. Mouths, for example, appeared because the earliest multicellular organisms needed a way to take nutrients into their bodies. We still use our mouths for that purpose, but we also use them to kiss, speak and, if we are Rambo, to pull the pins out of hand grenades. Are any of these uses unnatural simply because our worm-like ancestors 600 million years ago didn’t do those things with their mouths?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Imagined orders are not evil conspiracies or useless mirages. Rather, they are the only way large numbers of humans can cooperate effectively." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The danger is that if we invest too much in developing AI and too little in developing human consciousness, the very sophisticated artificial intelligence of computers might only serve to empower the natural stupidity of humans." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Religion cannot be equated with superstition, because most people are unlikely to call their cherished beliefs ‘superstitions’. We always believe in ‘the truth’. It’s only other people who believe in superstitions." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Many call this process 'the destruction of nature.' But it's not really destruction, it's change. Nature cannot be destroyed." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The pursuit of an easier life resulted in much hardship, and not for the last time. It happens to us today. How many young college graduates have taken demanding jobs in high-powered firms, vowing that they will work hard to earn money that will enable them to retire and pursue their real interests when they are thirty-five? But by the time they reach that age, they have large mortgages, children to school, houses in the suburbs that necessitate at least two cars per family, and a sense that life is not worth living without really good wine and expensive holidays abroad. What are they supposed to do, go back to digging up roots? No, they double their efforts and keep slaving away." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Whereas in 2010 obesity and related illnesses killed about 3 million people, terrorists killed a total of 7,697 people across the globe," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In modern affluent societies it is customary to take a shower and change your clothes every day. Medieval peasants went without washing for months on end, and hardly ever changed their clothes. The very thought of living like that, filthy and reeking to the bone, is abhorrent to us. Yet medieval peasants seem not to have minded. They were used to the feel and smell of a long-unlaundered shirt. It’s not that they wanted a change of clothes but couldn’t get it – they had what they wanted. So, at least as far as clothing goes, they were content. That’s not so surprising, when you think of it. After all, our chimpanzee cousins seldom wash and never change their clothes. Nor are we disgusted by the fact that our pet dogs and cats don’t shower or change their coats daily. We pat, hug and kiss them all the same. Small children in affluent societies often dislike showering, and it takes them years of education and parental discipline to adopt this supposedly attractive custom. It is all a matter of expectations." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“A new branch of mathematics was developed over the last 200 years to deal with the more complex aspects of reality: statistics." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“However, once technology enables us to re-engineer human minds, Homo sapiens will disappear, human history will come to an end and a completely new kind of process will begin, which people like you and me cannot comprehend. Many scholars try to predict how the world will look in the year 2100 or 2200. This is a waste of time. Any worthwhile prediction must take into account the ability to re-engineer human minds, and this is impossible. There are many wise answers to the question, ‘What would people with minds like ours do with biotechnology?’ Yet there are no good answers to the question, ‘What would beings with a different kind of mind do with biotechnology?’ All we can say is that people similar to us are likely to use biotechnology to re-engineer their own minds, and our present-day minds cannot grasp what might happen next." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Imagine how things might have turned out had the Neanderthals or Denisovans survived alongside Homo sapiens. What kind of cultures, societies and political structures would have emerged in a world where several different human species coexisted? How, for example, would religious faiths have unfolded? Would the book of Genesis have declared that Neanderthals descend from Adam and Eve, would Jesus have died for the sins of the Denisovans, and would the Qur’an have reserved seats in heaven for all righteous humans, whatever their species? Would Neanderthals have been able to serve in the Roman legions, or in the sprawling bureaucracy of imperial China? Would the American Declaration of Independence hold as a self-evident truth that all members of the genus Homo are created equal? Would Karl Marx have urged workers of all species to unite?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Gautama found that there was a way to exit this vicious circle. If, when the mind experiences something pleasant or unpleasant, it simply understand things as they are, then there is no suffering. If you experience sadness without craving that the sadness go away, you continue to feel sadness but you do not suffer from it. There can actually be richness in the sadness. If you experience joy without craving that the joy linger and intensify, you continue to feel joy without losing your peace of mind." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“So here is that line from the American Declaration of Independence translated into biological terms: We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men evolved differently, that they are born with certain mutable characteristics, and that among these are life and the pursuit of pleasure." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Even more money is transferred to the bank accounts of fashion designers, gym managers, dieticians, cosmeticians and plastic surgeons, who help us arrive at the café looking as similar as possible to the market’s ideal of beauty." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Christians slaughtered Christians by the millions to defend slightly different interpretations of the religion of love and compassion." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The wandering bands of storytelling Sapiens were the most important and most destructive force the animal kingdom had ever produced." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Just as when two clashing musical notes played together force a piece of music forward, so discord in our thoughts, ideas and values compel us to think, re-evaluate and criticise. Consistency is the playground of dull minds." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Islamic fundamentalists could never have toppled Saddam Hussein by themselves. Instead they enraged the USA by the 9/11 attacks, and the USA destroyed the Middle Eastern china shop for them. Now they flourish in the wreckage." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“As of 2016, humankind indeed manages to hold the stick at both ends. Not only do we possess far more power than ever before, but against all expectations, God’s death did not lead to social collapse. Throughout history prophets and philosophers have argued that if humans stopped believing in a great cosmic plan, all law and order would vanish. Yet today, those who pose the greatest threat to global law and order are precisely those people who continue to believe in God and His all-encompassing plans. God-fearing Syria is a far more violent place than the atheist Netherlands." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Scientists, for their part, need to be far more engaged with current public debates. They “should not be afraid of making their voice heard when the debate wanders into their field of expertise, be it medicine or history. Silence isn’t neuatrality; it is supporting the status quo. Of course, it is extremely important to go on doing academic research and to publish the results in scientific journals that only a few experts read. But it is equally important to communicate the latest scientific theories to the general public through popular-science books, and even through the skilful use of art and fiction." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“True, hundreds of millions may nevertheless go on believing in Islam, Christianity or Hinduism. But numbers alone don’t count for much in history. History is often shaped by small groups of forward-looking innovators rather than by the backward-looking masses. Ten thousand years ago most people were hunter-gatherers and only a few pioneers in the Middle East were farmers. Yet the future belonged to the farmers. In 1850 more than 90 per cent of humans were peasants, and in the small villages along the Ganges, the Nile and the Yangtze nobody knew anything about steam engines, railroads or telegraph lines. Yet the fate of those peasants had already been sealed in Manchester and Birmingham by the handful of engineers, politicians and financiers who spearheaded the Industrial Revolution. Steam engines, railroads and telegraphs transformed the production of food, textiles, vehicles and weapons, giving industrial powers a decisive edge over traditional agricultural societies." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you really want truth, you need to escape the black hole of power and allow yourself to waste a lot of time wandering here and there on the periphery. Revolutionary knowledge rarely makes it to the center, because the center is built on existing knowledge" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Suffering arises from craving; the only way to be fully liberated from suffering is to be fully liberated from craving; and the only way to be liberated from craving is to train the mind to experience reality as it is." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“As the twenty-first century unfolds, nationalism is fast losing ground. More and more people believe that all of humankind is the legitimate source of political authority, rather than the members of a particular nationality, and that safeguarding human rights and protecting the interests of the entire human species should be the guiding light of politics." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“While people in today’s affluent societies work an average of forty to forty-five hours a week, and people in the developing world work sixty and even eighty hours a week, hunter-gatherers living today in the most inhospitable of habitats – such as the Kalahari Desert – work on average for just thirty-five to forty-five hours a week. They hunt only one day out of three, and gathering takes up just three to six hours daily. In normal times, this is enough to feed the band. It may well be that ancient hunter-gatherers living in zones more fertile than the Kalahari spent even less time obtaining food and raw materials. On top of that, foragers enjoyed a lighter load of household chores. They had no dishes to wash, no carpets to vacuum, no floors to polish, no nappies to change and no bills to pay." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Three important revolutions shaped the course of history: the Cognitive Revolution kick-started history about 70,000 years ago. The Agricultural Revolution sped it up about 12,000 years ago. The Scientific Revolution, which got under way only 500 years ago, may well end history and start something completely different. This book tells the story of how these three revolutions have affected humans and their fellow organisms." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Instead of studying old traditions, emphasis is now placed on new observations and experiments. When present observation collides with past tradition, we give precedence to the observation. Of course, physicists analysing the spectra of distant galaxies, archaeologists analysing the finds from a Bronze Age city, and political scientists studying the emergence of capitalism do not disregard tradition. They start by studying what the wise people of the past have said and written. But from their first year in college, aspiring physicists, archaeologists and political scientists are taught that it is their mission to go beyond what Einstein, Heinrich Schliemann and Max Weber ever knew." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Each and every one of us has been born into a given historical reality, ruled by particular norms and values, and managed by a unique economic and political system. We take this reality for granted, thinking it is natural, inevitable and immutable. We forget that our world was created by an accidental chain of events, and that history shaped not only our technology, politics and society, but also our thoughts, fears and dreams. The cold hand of the past emerges from the grave of our ancestors, grips us by the neck and directs our gaze towards a single future. We have felt that grip from the moment we were born, so we assume that it is a natural and inescapable part of who we are. Therefore we seldom try to shake ourselves free, and envision alternative futures." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“religion is created by humans rather than by gods, and it is defined by its social function rather than by the existence of deities. Religion is anything that confers superhuman legitimacy on human social structures. It legitimises human norms and values by arguing that they reflect superhuman laws. Religion" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The global empire being forged before our eyes is not governed by any particular state or ethnic group. Much like the Late Roman Empire, it is ruled by a multi-ethnic elite, and is held together by a common culture and common interests." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Precisely because technology is now moving so fast, and parliaments and dictators alike are overwhelmed by data they cannot process quickly enough, present-day politicians are thinking on a far smaller scale than their predecessors a century ago. Consequently, in the early twenty-first century politics is bereft of grand visions. Government has become mere administration. It manages the country, but it no longer leads it." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“This is all the fault of evolution. For countless generations our biochemical system adapted to increasing our chances of survival and reproduction, not our happiness. The" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Consumerism tells us that in order to be happy we must consume as many products and services as possible." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“According to Buddhism, most people identify happiness with pleasant feelings, while identifying suffering with unpleasant feelings. People consequently ascribe immense importance to what they feel, craving to experience more and more pleasures, while avoiding pain. Whatever we do throughout our lives, whether scratching our leg, fidgeting slightly in the chair, or fighting world wars, we are just trying to get pleasant feelings. The problem, according to Buddhism, is that our feelings are no more than fleeting vibrations, changing every moment, like the ocean waves. If five minutes ago I felt joyful and purposeful, now these feelings are gone, and I might well feel sad and dejected. So if I want to experience pleasant feelings, I have to constantly chase them, while driving away the unpleasant feelings. Even if I succeed, I immediately have to start all over again, without ever getting any lasting reward for my troubles." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Perhaps in the twenty-first century populist revolts will be staged not against an economic elite that exploits people but against an economic elite that does not need them anymore." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Shepherds and farmers throughout history showed affection for their animals and have taken great care of them, just as many slaveholders felt affection and concern for their slaves. It was no accident that kings and prophets styled themselves as shepherds and likened the way they and the gods cared for their people to a shepherd’s care for his flock." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The antidote to a meaningless and lawless existence was provided by humanism, a revolutionary new creed that conquered the world during the last few centuries. The humanist religion worships humanity, and expects humanity to play the part that God played in Christianity and Islam, and that the laws of nature played in Buddhism and Daoism. Whereas traditionally the great cosmic plan gave meaning to the life of humans, humanism reverses the roles and expects the experiences of humans to give meaning to the cosmos. According to humanism, humans must draw from within their inner experiences not only the meaning of their own lives, but also the meaning of the entire universe. This is the primary commandment humanism has given us: create meaning for a meaningless world. Accordingly," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Tolerance is not a Sapiens trademark. In modern times, a small difference in skin colour, dialect or religion has been enough to prompt one group of Sapiens to set about exterminating another group. Would ancient Sapiens have been more tolerant towards an entirely different human species?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Unfortunately, teaching kids to embrace the unknown while maintaining their mental balance is far more difficult than teaching them an equation in physics or the causes of the First World War. You cannot learn resilience by reading a book or listening to a lecture. Teachers themselves usually lack the mental flexibility that the twenty-first century demands, since they themselves are the product of the old educational system." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“After all, when ‘the Lord saw how great the wickedness of the human race had become’ He resolved to ‘wipe from the face of the earth the human race I have created – and with them the animals, the birds and the creatures that move along the ground – for I regret that I have made them’ (Genesis 6:7). The Bible thinks it is perfectly all right to destroy all animals as punishment for the crimes of Homo sapiens, as if the existence of giraffes, pelicans and ladybirds has lost all purpose if humans misbehave. The Bible could not imagine a scenario in which God repents having created Homo sapiens, wipes this sinful ape off the face of the earth, and then spends eternity enjoying the antics of ostriches, kangaroos and panda bears." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Algorithm’ is arguably the single most important concept in our world. If we want to understand our life and our future, we should make every effort to understand what an algorithm is, and how algorithms are connected with emotions. An algorithm is a methodical set of steps that can be used to make calculations, resolve problems and reach decisions. An algorithm isn’t a particular calculation, but the method followed when making the calculation. For example, if you want to calculate the average between two numbers, you can use a simple algorithm. The algorithm says: ‘First step: add the two numbers together. Second step: divide the sum by two.’ When you enter the numbers 4 and 8, you get 6. When you enter 117 and 231, you get 174." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Just as medieval culture did not manage to square chivalry with Christianity, so the modern world fails to square liberty with equality. But this is no defect. Such contradictions are an inseparable part of every human culture. In fact, they are culture’s engines, responsible for the creativity and dynamism of our species. Just as when two clashing musical notes played together force a piece of music forward, so discord in our thoughts, ideas and values compel us to think, re-evaluate and criticise. Consistency is the playground of dull minds." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“As Nietzsche put it, if you have a why to live, you can bear almost any how. A meaningful life can be extremely satisfying even in the midst of hardship, whereas a meaningless life is a terrible ordeal no matter how comfortable it is." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“monotheism explains order, but is mystified by evil. Dualism explains evil, but is puzzled by order. There is one logical way of solving the riddle: to argue that there is a single omnipotent God who created the entire universe – and He’s evil. But nobody in history has had the stomach for such a belief." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“More than a century after Nietzsche pronounced Him dead, God seems to be making a comeback. But this is a mirage. God is dead – it’s just taking a while to get rid of the body." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Humans nowadays completely dominate the planet not because the individual human is far smarter and more nimble-fingered than the individual chimp or wolf, but because Homo sapiens is the only species on earth capable of cooperating flexibly in large numbers. Intelligence and toolmaking were obviously very important as well. But if humans had not learned to cooperate flexibly in large numbers, our crafty brains and deft hands would still be splitting flint stones rather than uranium atoms." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“But fiction has enabled us not merely to imagine things, but to do so collectively. We can weave common myths such as the biblical creation story, the Dreamtime myths of Aboriginal Australians, and the nationalist myths of modern states. Such myths give Sapiens the unprecedented ability to cooperate flexibly in large numbers. Ants and bees can also work together in huge numbers, but they do so in a very rigid manner and only with close relatives. Wolves and chimpanzees cooperate far more flexibly than ants, but they can do so only with small numbers of other individuals that they know intimately. Sapiens can cooperate in extremely flexible ways with countless numbers of strangers. That’s why Sapiens rule the world, whereas ants eat our leftovers and chimps are locked up in zoos and research laboratories." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In the nineteenth century the Industrial Revolution created new conditions and problems that none of the existing social, economic, and political models could cope with. Feudalism, monarchism, and traditional religions were not adapted to managing industrial metropolises, millions of uprooted workers, or the constantly changing nature of the modern economy. Consequently, humankind had to develop completely new models—liberal democracies, communist dictatorships, and fascist regimes—and it took more than a century of terrible wars and revolutions to experiment with these models, separate the wheat from the chaff, and implement the best solutions. Child labor in Dickensian coal mines, the First World War, and the Great Ukrainian Famine of 1932–33 constituted just a small part of the tuition fees humankind had to pay." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“1.​Science is converging on an all-encompassing dogma, which says that organisms are algorithms and life is data processing. 2.​Intelligence is decoupling from consciousness. 3.​Non-conscious but highly intelligent algorithms may soon know us better than we know ourselves. These three processes raise three key questions, which I hope will stick in your mind long after you have finished this book: 1.​Are organisms really just algorithms, and is life really just data processing? 2.​What’s more valuable – intelligence or consciousness? 3.​What will happen to society, politics and daily life when non-conscious but highly intelligent algorithms know us better than we know ourselves?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The universe just does not work like a story." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Change Is the Only Constant" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“When humankind possesses enormous new powers, and when the threat of famine, plague and war is finally lifted, what will we do with ourselves? What will the scientists, investors, bankers and presidents do all day? Write poetry? Success" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“One of the wonderful things about science is that when scientists don’t know something, they can try out all kinds of theories and conjunctures, but in the end they can just admit their ignorance. The" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“how long can we maintain the wall separating the department of biology from the departments of law and political science?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Humans are in danger of losing their economic value because intelligence is decoupling from consciousness." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“More Christians were killed by fellow Christians in those twenty-four hours than by the polytheistic Roman Empire throughout its entire existence." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Were the Australian extinction an isolated event, we could grant humans the benefit of the doubt. But the historical record makes Homo sapiens look like an ecological serial killer." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The greatest scientific discovery was the discovery of ignorance. Once humans realised how little they knew about the world, they suddenly had a very good reason to seek new knowledge, which opened up the scientific road to progress. With" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Unlike the everlasting soul, the mind has many parts, it constantly changes, and there is no reason to think it is eternal." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In the twentieth century per capita GDP was perhaps the supreme yardstick for evaluating national success. From this perspective, Singapore, each of whose citizens produces on average $56,000 worth of goods and services a year, is a more successful country than Costa Rica, whose citizens produce only $14,000 a year. But nowadays thinkers, politicians and even economists are calling to supplement or even replace GDP with GDH – gross domestic happiness. After all, what do people want? They don’t want to produce. They want to be happy. Production is important because it provides the material basis for happiness. But it is only the means, not the end. In one survey after another Costa Ricans report far higher levels of life satisfaction than Singaporeans. Would you rather be a highly productive but dissatisfied Singaporean, or a less productive but satisfied Costa Rican?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Modern culture is the most powerful in history, and it is ceaselessly researching, inventing, discovering and growing. At the same time, it is plagued by more existential angst than any previous culture." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Whereas the Agricultural Revolution gave rise to theist religions, the Scientific Revolution gave birth to humanist religions, in which humans replaced gods." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The merger of infotech and biotech might soon push billions of humans out of the job market and undermine both liberty and equality. Big Data algorithms might create digital dictatorships in which all power is concentrated in the hands of a tiny elite while most people suffer not from exploitation but from something far worse—irrelevance." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In the future, however, we may see real gaps in physical and cognitive abilities opening between an upgraded upper class and the rest of society." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Most people claim that their social hierarchy is natural and just, while those of other societies are based on false and ridiculous criteria. Modern Westerners are taught to scoff at the idea of racial hierarchy. They are shocked by laws prohibiting blacks to live in white neighbourhoods, or to study in white schools, or to be treated in white hospitals. But the hierarchy of rich and poor – which mandates that rich people live in separate and more luxurious neighbourhoods, study in separate and more prestigious schools, and receive medical treatment in separate and better-equipped facilities – seems perfectly sensible to many Americans and Europeans. Yet it’s a proven fact that most rich people are rich for the simple reason that they were born into a rich family, while most poor people will remain poor throughout their lives simply because they were born into a poor family." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The Hindu caste system and its attendant laws of purity became deeply embedded in Indian culture. Long after the Indo-Aryan invasion was forgotten, Indians continued to believe in the caste system and to abhor the pollution caused by caste mixing. Castes were not immune to change. In fact, as time went by, large castes were divided into sub-castes. Eventually the original four castes turned into 3,000 different groupings called jati (literally ‘birth’). But this proliferation of castes did not change the basic principle of the system, according to which every person is born into a particular rank, and any infringement of its rules pollutes the person and society as a whole. A person’s jati determines her profession, the food she can eat, her place of residence and her eligible marriage partners. Usually a person can marry only within his or her caste, and the resulting children inherit that status. Whenever a new profession developed or a new group of people appeared on the scene, they had to be recognised as a caste in order to receive a legitimate place within Hindu society. Groups that failed to win recognition as a caste were, literally, outcasts – in this stratified society, they did not even occupy the lowest rung. They became known as Untouchables. They had to live apart from all other people and scrape together a living in humiliating and disgusting ways, such as sifting through garbage dumps for scrap material. Even members of the lowest caste avoided mingling with them, eating with them, touching them and certainly marrying them. In modern India, matters of marriage and work are still heavily influenced by the caste system, despite all attempts by the democratic government of India to break down such distinctions and convince Hindus that there is nothing polluting in caste mixing.3 Purity" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“This fact has contributed greatly both to humankind’s extraordinary social abilities and to its unique social problems. Lone mothers could hardly forage enough food for their offspring and themselves with needy children in tow. Raising children required constant help from other family members and neighbours. It takes a tribe to raise a human. Evolution thus favoured those capable of forming strong social ties. In addition, since humans are born underdeveloped, they can be educated and socialised to a far greater extent than any other animal. Most mammals emerge from the womb like glazed earthenware emerging from a kiln – any attempt at remoulding will only scratch or break them. Humans emerge from the womb like molten glass from a furnace. They can be spun, stretched and shaped with a surprising degree of freedom. This is why today we can educate our children to become Christian or Buddhist, capitalist or socialist, warlike or peace-loving. We assume that a large brain, the use of" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The governmental tortoise cannot keep up with the technological hare." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In the twenty-first century our personal data is probably the most valuable resource most humans still have to offer, and we are giving it to the tech giants in exchange for email services and funny cat videos. From" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Technology isn’t bad. If you know what you want in life, technology can help you get it. But if you don’t know what you want in life, it will be all too easy for technology to shape your aims for you and take control of your life. Especially as technology gets better at understanding humans, you might increasingly find yourself serving it, instead of it serving you." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Science needs more than just research to make progress. It depends on the mutual reinforcement of science, politics and economics." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The current technological and scientific revolution implies not that authentic individuals and authentic realities can be manipulated by algorithms and TV cameras, but rather that authenticity is a myth. People are afraid of being trapped inside a box, but they don’t realise that they are already trapped inside a box – their brain – which is locked within a bigger box – human society with its myriad fictions. When you escape the matrix the only thing you discover is a bigger matrix. When the peasants and workers revolted against the tsar in 1917, they ended up with Stalin; and when you begin to explore the manifold ways the world manipulates you, in the end you realise that your core identity is a complex illusion created by neural networks." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Don’t believe tree-huggers who claim that our ancestors lived in harmony with nature. Long before the Industrial Revolution, Homo sapiens held the record among all organisms for driving the most plant and animal species to their extinctions. We have the dubious distinction of being the deadliest species in the annals of biology." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Today, the richest 1 percent own half the world’s wealth. Even more alarmingly, the richest one hundred people together own more than the poorest four billion." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Telling effective stories is not easy. The difficulty lies not in telling the story, but in convincing everyone else to believe it. Much of history revolves around this question: how does one convince millions of people to believe particular stories about gods, or nations, or limited liability companies? Yet when it succeeds, it gives Sapiens immense power, because it enables millions of strangers to cooperate and work towards common goals." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Homo sapiens look like an ecological serial killer." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“One can try to evade the problem by adopting a ‘morality of intentions’. What’s important is what I intend, not what I actually do or the outcome of what I do. However, in a world in which everything is interconnected, the supreme moral imperative becomes the imperative to know. The greatest crimes in modern history resulted not just from hatred and greed, but even more so from ignorance and indifference. Charming English ladies financed the Atlantic slave trade by buying shares and bonds in the London stock exchange, without ever setting foot in either Africa or the Caribbean. They then sweetened their four o’clock tea with snow-white sugar cubes produced in hellish plantations – about which they knew nothing." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“So why study history? Unlike physics or economics, history is not a means for making accurate predictions. We study history not to know the future but to widen our horizons, to understand that our present situation is neither natural nor inevitable, and that we consequently have many more possibilities before us than we can imagine." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“We are suddenly showing unprecedented interest in the fate of so-called lower life forms, perhaps because we are about to become one." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“There is some evidence that the size of the average Sapiens brain has actually decreased since the age of foraging." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“A cursory look at history reveals that propaganda and disinformation are nothing new, and even the habit of denying entire nations and creating fake countries has a long pedigree. In 1931 the Japanese army staged mock attacks on itself to justify its invasion of China, and then created the fake country of Manchukuo to legitimise its conquests. China itself has long denied that Tibet ever existed as an independent country. British settlement in Australia was justified by the legal doctrine of terra nullius (‘nobody’s land’), which effectively erased 50,000 years of Aboriginal history.In the early twentieth century a favourite Zionist slogan spoke of the return of ‘a people without a land [the Jews] to a land without a people [Palestine]’. The existence of the local Arab population was conveniently ignored. In 1969 Israeli prime minister Golda Meir famously said that there is no Palestinian people and never was. Such views are very common in Israel even today, despite decades of armed conflicts against something that doesn’t exist. For example, in February 2016 MP Anat Berko gave a speech in the Israeli Parliament in which she doubted the reality and history of the Palestinian people. Her proof? The letter ‘p’ does not even exist in Arabic, so how can there be a Palestinian people? (In Arabic, ‘f’ stands for ‘p’, and the Arabic name for Palestine is Falastin.)" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Meaning is created when many people weave together a common network of stories. Why does a particular action – such as getting married in church, fasting on Ramadan or voting on election day – seem meaningful to me? Because my parents also think it is meaningful, as do my brothers, my neighbours, people in nearby cities and even the residents of far-off countries. And why do all these people think it is meaningful? Because their friends and neighbours also share the same view. People constantly reinforce each other’s beliefs in a self-perpetuating loop. Each round of mutual confirmation tightens the web of meaning further, until you have little choice but to believe what everyone else believes." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Social cooperation is our key for survival and reproduction." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“A friend once told me that what she fears most about growing old is becoming irrelevant, turning into a nostalgic old woman who cannot understand the world around her, or contribute much to it. This is what we fear collectively, as a species, when we hear of superhumans. We sense that in such a world, our identity, our dreams and even our fears will be irrelevant, and we will have nothing more to contribute. Whatever you are today – be it a devout Hindu cricket player or an aspiring lesbian journalist – in an upgraded world you will feel like a Neanderthal hunter in Wall Street. You won’t belong." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It takes a tribe to raise a human." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The Google and Facebook algorithms not only know exactly how you feel, they also know myriad other things about you that you hardly suspect. Consequently you should stop listening to your feelings and start listening to these external algorithms instead. What’s the point of having democratic elections when the algorithms know not only how each person is going to vote, but also the underlying neurological reasons why one person votes Democrat while another votes Republican? Whereas humanism commanded: ‘Listen to your feelings!’ Dataism now commands: ‘Listen to the algorithms! They know how you feel.’ When" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Cultures are mental parasites that emerge accidentally, and thereafter take advantage of all people infected by them." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“When you live under such an oligarchy, there is always some crisis or the other that takes priority over boring stuff such as healthcare and pollution. If the nation is facing external invasion or diabolical subversion, who has the time to worry about overcrowded hospitals and polluted rivers? By manufacturing a never-ending stream of crises, a corrupt oligarchy can prolong its rule indefinitely." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The assertion that religion is a tool for preserving social order and for organising large-scale cooperation may vex many people for whom it represents first and foremost a spiritual path. However, just as the gap between religion and science is smaller than we commonly think, so the gap between religion and spirituality is much bigger. Religion is a deal, whereas spirituality is a journey. Religion gives a complete description of the world, and offers us a well-defined contract with predetermined goals. ‘God exists. He told us to behave in certain ways. If you obey God, you’ll be admitted to heaven. If you disobey Him, you’ll burn in hell.’ The very clarity of this deal allows society to define common norms and values that regulate human behaviour. Spiritual journeys are nothing like that. They usually take people in mysterious ways towards unknown destinations. The quest usually begins with some big question, such as who am I? What is the meaning of life? What is good? Whereas many people just accept the ready-made answers provided by the powers that be, spiritual seekers are not so easily satisfied. They are determined to follow the big question wherever it leads, and not just to places you know well or wish to visit. Thus for most people, academic studies are a deal rather than a spiritual journey, because they take us to a predetermined goal approved by our elders, governments and banks." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In the coming decades, it is likely that we will see more Internet-like revolutions, in which technology steals a march on politics. Artificial intelligence and biotechnology might soon overhaul our societies and economies – and our bodies and minds too – but they are hardly a blip on our political radar. Our current democratic structures just cannot collect and process the relevant data fast enough, and most voters don’t understand biology and cybernetics well enough to form any pertinent opinions. Hence traditional democratic politics loses control of events, and fails to provide us with meaningful visions for the future. That" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Whenever politicians start talking in mystical terms, beware. They might be trying to disguise and excuse real suffering by wrapping it up in big incomprehensible words. Be particularly careful about the following four words: sacrifice, eternity, purity, redemption. If you hear any of these, sound the alarm. And if you happen to live in a country whose leader routinely says things like ‘Their sacrifice will redeem the purity of our eternal nation’ – know that you are in deep trouble." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If the future of humanity is decided in your absence, because you are too busy feeding and clothing your kids, you and they will not be exempt from the consequences." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“When a thousand people believe some made-up story for one month, that's fake news. When a billion people believe it for a thousand years, that's a religion, and we are admonished not to call it fake news in order not to hurt the feelings of the faithful (or incur their wrath)." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“War is obsolete You are more likely to commit suicide than be killed in conflict Famine is disappearing You are at more risk of obesity than starvation Death is just a technical problem Equality is out – but immortality is in What does our future hold?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It is much harder to struggle against irrelevance than against exploitation." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Since humans are individuals, it is difficult to connect them to one another and to make sure that they are all up to date. In contrast, computers aren’t individuals, and it is easy to integrate them into a single flexible network." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Data religion now says that your every word and action is part of the great data flow, that the algorithms are constantly watching you and that they care about everything you do and feel. Most people like this very much. For true-believers, to be disconnected from the data flow risks losing the very meaning of life. What’s the point of doing or experiencing anything if nobody knows about it, and if it doesn’t contribute something to the global exchange of information?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Unfortunately, the Sapiens regime on Earth has so far produced little that we can be proud of. We have mastered our surroundings, increased food production, built cities, established empires and created far-flung trade networks. But did we decrease the amount of suffering in the world?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Democracy is based on Abraham Lincoln’s principle that ‘you can fool all the people some of the time, and some of the people all the time, but you cannot fool all the people all the time’." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“As Nietzsche put it, if you have a why to live, you can bear almost any how. A meaningful life can be extremely satisfying even in the midst of hardship, whereas a meaningless life is a terrible ordeal no matter how comfortable it is. Though" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Tolerance is not a Sapiens trademark." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“monkeys must have psychological needs and desires that go beyond their material requirements, and if these are not fulfilled, they will suffer greatly." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The heated debates about Homo sapiens’ ‘natural way of life’ miss the main point. Ever since the Cognitive Revolution, there hasn’t been a single natural way of life for Sapiens. There are only cultural choices, from among a bewildering palette of possibilities." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The greatest victory in living memory – of the United States over the Soviet Union – was achieved without any major military confrontation. The United States then got a fleeting taste of old-fashioned military glory in the First Gulf War, but this only tempted it to waste trillions on humiliating military fiascos in Iraq and Afghanistan. China, the rising power of the early twenty-first century, has assiduously avoided all armed conflicts since its failed invasion of Vietnam in 1979, and it owes its ascent strictly to economic factors. In this it has emulated not the Japanese, German and Italian empires of the pre-1914 era, but rather the Japanese, German and Italian economic miracles of the post-1945 era. In all these cases economic prosperity and geopolitical clout were achieved without firing a shot." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“We like to see underdogs win. But there is no justice in history. Most past cultures have sooner or later fallen prey to the armies of some ruthless empire, which have consigned them to oblivion. Empires, too, ultimately fall, but they tend to leave behind rich and enduring legacies. Almost all people in the twenty-first century are the offspring of one empire or another." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In fact, ecological turmoil might endanger the survival of Homo sapiens itself. Global warming, rising oceans and widespread pollution could make the earth less hospitable to our kind, and the future might consequently see a spiralling race between human power and human-induced natural disasters. As humans use their power to counter the forces of nature and subjugate the ecosystem to their needs and whims, they might cause more and more unanticipated and dangerous side effects. These are likely to be controllable only by even more drastic manipulations of the ecosystem, which would result in even worse chaos." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Fiction isn’t bad. It is vital. Without commonly accepted stories about things like money, states or corporations, no complex human society can function." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Money is the apogee of human tolerance. Money is more open-minded than language, state laws, cultural codes, religious beliefs and social habits. Money is the only trust system created by humans that can bridge almost any cultural gap, and that does not discriminate on the basis of religion, gender, race, age or sexual orientation." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“We have no idea what the builders of Göbekli Tepe actually called the place. With the appearance of writing, we are beginning to hear history through the ears of its protagonists. When Kushim’s neighbours called out to him, they might really have shouted ‘Kushim!’ It is telling that the first recorded name in history belongs to an accountant, rather than a prophet, a poet or a great conqueror.1" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“For the first time in history, more people die today from eating too much than from eating too little; more people die from old age than from infectious diseases; and more people commit suicide than are killed by soldiers, terrorists and criminals combined. In the early twenty-first century, the average human is far more likely to die from bingeing at McDonald’s than from drought, Ebola or an al-Qaeda attack. Hence" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“At present, more than 90 per cent of the large animals of the world (i.e. those weighing more than a few kilograms) are either humans or domesticated animals." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“none of these things exists outside the stories that people invent and tell one another. There are no gods in the universe, no nations, no money, no human rights, no laws and no justice outside the common imagination of human beings." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Prophets of doom warn that sooner or later Homo sapiens will exhaust the raw materials and energy of planet Earth. And what will happen then?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Rather than heralding a new era of easy living, the Agricultural Revolution left farmers with lives generally more difficult and less satisfying than those of foragers. Hunter-gatherers spent their time in more stimulating and varied ways, and were less in danger of starvation and disease. The Agricultural Revolution certainly enlarged the sum total of food at the disposal of humankind, but the extra food did not translate into a better diet or more leisure. Rather, it translated into population explosions and pampered elites. The average farmer worked harder than the average forager, and got a worse diet in return. The Agricultural Revolution was history’s biggest fraud." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“So if you want to know the truth about the universe, about the meaning of life, and about your own identity, the best place to start is by observing suffering and exploring what it is. The answer isn’t a story." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“To survive and flourish in such a world, you will need a lot of mental flexibility and great reserves of emotional balance. You will have to repeatedly let go of some of what you know best, and learn to feel at home with the unknown. Unfortunately, teaching kids to embrace the unknown while maintaining their mental balance is far more difficult than teaching them an equation in physics or the causes of the First World War. You cannot learn resilience by reading a book or listening to a lecture. Teachers themselves usually lack the mental flexibility that the twenty-first century demands, since they themselves are the product of the old educational system." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The currency of evolution is neither hunger nor pain, but rather copies of DNA helixes. Just as the economic success of a company is measured only by the number of dollars in its bank account, not by the happiness of its employees, so the evolutionary success of a species is measured by the number of copies of its DNA." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Homo sapiens is just not built for satisfaction. Human happiness depends less on objective conditions and more on our own expectations. Expectations, however, tend to adapt to conditions, including to the condition of other people." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Corporations, money and nations exist only in our imagination. We invented them to serve us; why do we find ourselves sacrificing our lives in their service? In the twenty-first century we will create more powerful fictions and more totalitarian religions than in any previous era. With the help of biotechnology and computer algorithms these religions will not only control our minute-by-minute existence, but will be able to shape our bodies, brains and minds, and to create entire virtual worlds complete with hells and heavens." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The cold hand of the past emerges from the grave of our ancestors, grips us by the neck and directs our gaze towards a single future. We" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Humans are used to thinking about life as a drama of decision-making." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Ever since the French Revolution, people throughout the world have gradually come to see both equality and individual freedom as fundamental values. Yet the two values contradict each other. Equality can be ensured only by curtailing the freedoms of those who are better off." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In 1568 the Dutch, who were mainly Protestant, revolted against their Catholic Spanish overlord. At first the rebels seemed to play the role of Don Quixote, courageously tilting at invincible windmills. Yet within eighty years the Dutch had not only secured their independence from Spain, but had managed to replace the Spaniards and their Portuguese allies as masters of the ocean highways, build a global Dutch empire, and become the richest state in Europe. The secret of Dutch success was credit. The Dutch burghers, who had little taste for combat on land, hired mercenary armies to fight the Spanish for them. The Dutch themselves meanwhile" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“There are no gods in the universe, no nations, no money, no human rights, no laws, and no justice outside the common imagination of human beings." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Sapiens don’t behave according to a cold mathematical logic, but rather according to a warm social logic. We are ruled by emotions." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“For real peace is not the mere absence of war. Real peace is the implausibility of war. There has never been real peace in the world." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“An empire that cannot sustain a blow and remain standing is not really an empire." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“We cannot search for the truth and for the way out of suffering without the freedom to think, investigate, and experiment. Secular people cherish freedom, and refrain from investing supreme authority in any text, institution or leader as the ultimate judge of what’s true and what’s right. Humans should always retain the freedom to doubt, to check again, to hear a second opinion, to try a different path. Secular people admire Galileo Galilei who dared to question whether the earth really sits motionless at the centre of the universe; they admire the masses of common people who stormed the Bastille in 1789 and brought down the despotic regime of Louis XVI; and they admire Rosa Parks who had the courage to sit down on a bus seat reserved for white passengers only." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The algorithms controlling humans work through sensations, emotions and thoughts." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Telling effective stories is not easy. The difficulty lies not in telling the story, but in convincing everyone else to believe it." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Think for a moment about the Agricultural Revolution from the viewpoint of wheat. Ten thousand years ago wheat was just a wild grass, one of many, confined to a small range in the Middle East. Suddenly, within just a few short millennia, it was growing all over the world. According to the basic evolutionary criteria of survival and reproduction, wheat has become one of the most successful plants in the history of the earth. In areas such as the Great Plains of North America, where not a single wheat stalk grew 10,000 years ago, you can today walk for hundreds upon hundreds of miles without encountering any other plant. Worldwide, wheat covers about 870,000 square miles of the globe’s surface, almost ten times the size of Britain. How did this grass turn from insignificant to ubiquitous? Wheat did it by manipulating Homo sapiens to its advantage. This ape had been living a fairly comfortable life hunting and gathering until about 10,000 years ago, but then began to invest more and more effort in cultivating wheat. Within a couple of millennia, humans in many parts of the world were doing little from dawn to dusk other than taking care of wheat plants. It wasn’t easy. Wheat demanded a lot of them. Wheat didn’t like rocks and pebbles, so Sapiens broke their backs clearing fields. Wheat didn’t like sharing its space, water and nutrients with other plants, so men and women laboured long days weeding under the scorching sun. Wheat got sick, so Sapiens had to keep a watch out for worms and blight. Wheat was attacked by rabbits and locust swarms, so the farmers built fences and stood guard over the fields. Wheat was thirsty, so humans dug irrigation canals or lugged heavy buckets from the well to water it. Sapiens even collected animal faeces to nourish the ground in which wheat grew." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“That’s why the theory of evolution cannot accept the idea of souls, at least if by ‘soul’ we mean something indivisible, immutable and potentially eternal. Such an entity cannot possibly result from a step-by-step evolution. Natural" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Nothing is inherently beautiful, sacred, or sexy; human feelings make it so." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“How, then, can terrorists hope to achieve much? Following an act of terrorism, the enemy continues to have the same number of soldiers, tanks and ships as before. The enemy’s communication network, roads and railways are largely intact. His factories, ports and bases are hardly touched. However, the terrorists hope that even though they can barely dent the enemy’s material power, fear and confusion will cause the enemy to misuse his intact strength and overreact. Terrorists calculate that when the enraged enemy uses his massive power against them, he will raise a much more violent military and political storm than the terrorists themselves could ever create. During every storm, many unforeseen things happen. Mistakes are made, atrocities are committed, public opinion wavers, neutrals change their stance, and the balance of power shifts." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Identity is defined by conflicts and dilemmas more than by agreement." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“One on one, even ten on ten, we are embarrassingly similar to chimpanzees." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“We see then that the self too is an imaginary story, just like nations, gods and money. Each of us has a sophisticated system that throws away most of our experiences, keeps only a few choice samples, mixes them up with bits from movies we’ve seen, novels we’ve read, speeches we’ve heard, and daydreams we’ve savoured, and out of all that jumble it weaves a seemingly coherent story about who I am, where I came from and where I am going. This story tells me what to love, whom to hate and what to do with myself. This story may even cause me to sacrifice my life, if that’s what the plot requires. We all have our genre. Some people live a tragedy, others inhabit a never-ending religious drama, some approach life as if it were an action film, and not a few act as if in a comedy. But in the end, they are all just stories." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Different societies adopt different kinds of imagined hierarchies. Race is very important to modern Americans but was relatively insignificant to medieval Muslims. Caste was a matter of life and death in medieval India, whereas in modern Europe it is practically non-existent. One hierarchy, however, has been of supreme importance in all known human societies: the hierarchy of gender. People everywhere have divided themselves into men and women. And almost everywhere men have got the better deal, at least since the Agricultural Revolution." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Most mammals emerge from the womb like glazed earthenware emerging from a kiln – any attempt at remoulding will only scratch or break them. Humans emerge from the womb like molten glass from a furnace. They can be spun, stretched and shaped with a surprising degree of freedom." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Another example is the modern political order. Ever since the French Revolution, people throughout the world have gradually come to see both equality and individual freedom as fundamental values. Yet the two values contradict each other. Equality can be ensured only by curtailing the freedoms of those who are better off. Guaranteeing that every individual will be free to do as he wishes inevitably short-changes equality. The entire political history of the world since 1789 can be seen as a series of attempts to reconcile this contradiction. Anyone who has read a novel by Charles Dickens knows that the liberal regimes of nineteenth-century Europe gave priority to individual freedom even if it meant throwing insolvent poor families in prison and giving orphans little choice but to join schools for pickpockets. Anyone who has read a novel by Alexander Solzhenitsyn knows how Communism’s egalitarian ideal produced brutal tyrannies that tried to control every aspect of daily life. Contemporary American politics also revolve around this contradiction. Democrats want a more equitable society, even if it means raising taxes to fund programmes to help the poor, elderly and infirm. But that infringes on the freedom of individuals to spend their money as they wish. Why should the government force me to buy health insurance if I prefer using the money to put my kids through college? Republicans, on the other hand, want to maximise individual freedom, even if it means that the income gap between rich and poor will grow wider and that many Americans will not be able to afford health care. Just as medieval culture did not manage to square chivalry with Christianity, so the modern world fails to square liberty with equality. But this is no defect. Such contradictions are an inseparable part of every human culture. In fact, they are culture’s engines, responsible for the creativity and dynamism of our species. Just" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Our feelings provide meaning not only for our private lives, but also for social and political processes. When we want to know who should rule the country, what foreign policy to adopt and what economic steps to take, we don’t look for the answers in scriptures. Nor do we obey the commands of the Pope or the Council of Nobel Laureates. Rather, in most countries, we hold democratic elections and ask people what they think about the matter at hand. We believe that the voter knows best, and that the free choices of individual humans are the ultimate political authority. Yet how does the voter know what to choose? Theoretically at least, the voter is supposed to consult his or her innermost feelings, and follow their lead. It is not always easy. In order to get in touch with my feelings, I need to filter out the empty propaganda slogans, the endless lies of ruthless politicians, the distracting noise created by cunning spin doctors, and the learned opinions of hired pundits. I need to ignore all this racket, and attend only to my authentic inner voice. And then my authentic inner voice whispers in my ear ‘Vote Cameron’ or ‘Vote Modi’ or ‘Vote Clinton’ or whomever, and I put a cross against that name on the ballot paper – and that’s how we know who should rule the country." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Like the elite of ancient Egypt, most people in most cultures dedicate their lives to building pyramids. Only the names, shapes and sizes of these pyramids change from one culture to the other. They may take the form, for example, of a suburban cottage with a swimming pool and an evergreen lawn, or a gleaming penthouse with an enviable view. Few question the myths that cause us to desire the pyramid in the first place." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The real test of ‘knowledge’ is not whether it is true, but whether it empowers us." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Seventy thousand years ago, Homo sapiens was still an insignificant animal minding its own business in a corner of Africa. In the following millennia it transformed itself into the master of the entire planet and the terror of the ecosystem. Today it stands on the verge of becoming a god, poised to acquire not only eternal youth, but also the divine abilities of creation and destruction." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Most religions and ideologies throughout history stated that there are objective yardsticks for goodness and beauty, and for how things ought to be. They were suspicious of the feelings and preferences of the ordinary person. At the entrance of the temple of Apollo at Delphi, pilgrims were greeted by the inscription: ‘Know thyself!’ The implication was that the average person is ignorant of his true self, and is therefore likely to be ignorant of true happiness. Freud would probably concur." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Terrorism works by pressing the fear button deep in our minds and hijacking the private imagination of millions of individuals." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“For thousands of years, philosophers, thinkers and prophets have besmirched money and called it the root of all evil. Be that as it may, money is also the apogee of human tolerance. Money is more open-minded than language, state laws, cultural codes, religious beliefs and social habits. Money is the only trust system created by humans that can bridge almost any cultural gap, and that does not discriminate on the basis of religion, gender, race, age or sexual orientation. Thanks to money, even people who don’t know each other and don’t trust each other can nevertheless cooperate effectively." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“So why study history? Unlike physics or economics, history is not a means for making accurate predictions. We study history not to know the future but to widen our horizons, to understand that our present situation is neither natural nor inevitable, and that we consequently have many more possibilities before us than we imagine. For example, studying how Europeans came to dominate Africans enables us to realise that there is nothing natural or inevitable about the racial hierarchy, and that the world might well be arranged differently. 2." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Big Data algorithms might create digital dictatorships in which all power is concentrated in the hands of a tiny elite while most people suffer not from exploitation, but from something far worse – irrelevance." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Successful cultures are those that excel in reproducing their memes, irrespective of the costs and benefits to their human hosts." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“While a good story must give me a role, and must extend beyond my horizons, it need not be true. A story can be pure fiction, and yet provide me with an identity and make me feel that my life has meaning. Indeed, to the best of our scientific understanding, none of the thousands of stories that different cultures, religions and tribes have invented throughout history is true. They are all just human inventions. If you ask for the true meaning of life and get a story in reply, know that this is the wrong answer. The exact details don’t really matter. Any story is wrong, simply for being a story. The universe just does not work like a story.So why do people believe in these fictions? One reason is that their personal identity is built on the story. People are taught to believe in the story from early childhood. They hear it from their parents, their teachers, their neighbours and the general culture long before they develop the intellectual and emotional independence necessary to question and verify such stories. By the time their intellect matures, they are so heavily invested in the story, that they are far more likely to use their intellect to rationalise the story than to doubt it. Most people who go on identity quests are like children going treasure hunting. They find only what their parents have hidden for them in advance.Second, not only our personal identities but also our collective institutions are built on the story. Consequently, it is extremely frightening to doubt the story. In many societies, anyone who tries to do so is ostracised or persecuted. Even if not, it takes strong nerves to question the very fabric of society. For if indeed the story is false, then the entire world as we know it makes no sense. State laws, social norms, economic institutions – they might all collapse." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The only thing we can try to do is to influence the direction scientists are taking. Since we might soon be able to engineer our desires too, perhaps the real questions facing us is not 'What do we want to become?', but What do we want to want?' Those who are not spooked by this question probably haven't given it enough thought." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Money, social status, plastic surgery, beautiful houses, powerful positions – none of these will bring you happiness. Lasting happiness comes only from serotonin, dopamine and oxytocin.1" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Another is that the findings demonstrate that happiness is not the surplus of pleasant over unpleasant moments. Rather, happiness consists in seeing one’s life in its entirety as meaningful and worthwhile. There is an important cognitive and ethical component to happiness. Our values make all the difference to whether we see ourselves as ‘miserable slaves to a baby dictator’ or as ‘lovingly nurturing a new life’.2 As Nietzsche put it, if you have a why to live, you can bear almost any how. A meaningful life can be extremely satisfying even in the midst of hardship, whereas a meaningless life is a terrible ordeal no matter how comfortable it is." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Religion can thus be defined as a system of human norms and values that is founded on a belief in a superhuman order." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If we are not careful, we will end up with downgraded humans misusing upgraded computers to wreak havoc on themselves and on the world." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If I identify happiness with fleeting pleasant sensations, and crave to experience more and more of them, I have no choice but to pursue them constantly." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The Russian, Chinese, and Cuban revolutions were made by people who were vital to the economy but who lacked political power; in 2016, Trump and Brexit were supported by many people who still enjoyed political power but who feared that they were losing their economic worth." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“since there is only one real world, whereas the number of potential virtual worlds is infinite, the probability that you happen to inhabit the sole real world is almost zero." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“A common enemy is the best catalyst for forging a common identity, and humankind now has at least three such enemies - nuclear war, climate change, and technological disruption." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Global warming, in contrast, will probably have different impacts on different nations. Some countries, most notably Russia, might actually benefit from it. Because Russia has relatively few coastline assets, it is far less worried than China or Kiribati about rising sea levels. And whereas higher temperatures are likely to turn Chad into a desert, they might simultaneously turn Siberia into the breadbasket of the world. Moreover, as the ice melts in the far north, the Russian-dominated Arctic sea lanes might become the artery of global commerce, and Kamchatka might replace Singapore as the crossroad of the world." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In year 1500, there were about 500 million Homo Sapiens in the entire world. Today, there are 7 billion. The total value of goods and services produced by humankind in the year 1500 is estimated at $250 billion, in today's dollars. Nowadays the value of a year of human production is close to $60 trillion. In 1500 humanity consumed about 13 trillion calories of energy per day. Today, we consume 1,500 trillion calories a day. (Take a second look at those figures -- human population has increased fourteen-fold, production 240-fold, and energy consumption 115-fold.)" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Though the challenges are unprecedented, and though the disagreements are intense, humankind can rise to the occasion if we keep our fears under control and be a bit more humble about our views." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“for every dollar and every minute we invest in improving artificial intelligence, it would be wise to invest a dollar and a minute in advancing human consciousness." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Since humans are individuals, it is difficult to connect them to one another and to make sure that they are all up to date." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“1. Science is converging on an all-encompassing dogma, which says that organisms are algorithms, and life is data processing. 2. Intelligence is decoupling from consciousness. 3. Non-conscious but highly intelligent algorithms may soon know us better than we know ourselves." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In truth, so far modern medicine hasn’t extended our natural life span by a single year. Its great achievement has been to save us from premature death, and allow us to enjoy the full measure of our years." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Meaning and authority always go hand in hand. Whoever determines the meaning of our actions – whether they are good or evil, right or wrong, beautiful or ugly – also gains the authority to tell us what to think and how to behave." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Nobody is ever made happy by winning the lottery, buying a house, getting a promotion or even finding true love. Peopleare made happy by one thing and one thing only – pleasant sensations in their bodies." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Bust most experts think on a timescale of academic grants and college jobs. Hence, 'very far away' may mean twenty years, 'never' may denote no more than fifty" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In the heyday of European imperialism, conquistadors and merchants bought entire islands and countries in exchange for coloured beads. In the twenty-first century our personal data is probably the most valuable resource most humans still have to offer, and we are giving it to the tech giants in exchange for email services and funny cat videos." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Many pedagogical experts argue that schools should switch to teaching “the four Cs”—critical thinking, communication, collaboration, and creativity.3 More broadly, they believe, schools should downplay technical skills and emphasize general-purpose life skills. Most important of all will be the ability to deal with change, learn new things, and preserve your mental balance in unfamiliar situations." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Our narrating self would much prefer to continue suffering in the future, just so it won't have to admit that our past suffering was devoid of all meaning. Eventually, if we want to come clean about past mistakes, our narrating self must invent some twist in the plot that will infuse these mistakes with meaning." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Had the Neanderthals survived, would we still imagine ourselves to be a creature apart? Perhaps this is exactly why our ancestors wiped out the Neanderthals. They were too familiar to ignore, but too different to tolerate." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Similarly, the fact that another person believes in cowry shells, or dollars, or electronic data, is enough to strengthen our own belief in them, even if that person is otherwise hated, despised or ridiculed by us. Christians and Muslims who could not agree on religious beliefs could nevertheless agree on a monetary belief, because whereas religion asks us to believe in something, money asks us to believe that other people believe in something. For thousands of years, philosophers, thinkers and prophets have besmirched money and called it the root of all evil. Be that as it may, money is also the apogee of human tolerance. Money is more open-minded than language, state laws, cultural codes, religious beliefs and social habits. Money is the only trust system created by humans that can bridge almost any cultural gap, and that does not discriminate on the basis of religion, gender, race, age or sexual orientation. Thanks to money, even people who don’t know each other and don’t trust each other can nevertheless cooperate effectively. The" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In truth, neither the narrative of oppression and exploitation nor that of ‘The White Man’s Burden’ completely matches the facts. The European empires did so many different things on such a large scale, that you can find plenty of examples to support whatever you want to say about them. You think that these empires were evil monstrosities that spread death, oppression and injustice around the world? You could easily fill an encyclopedia with their crimes. You want to argue that they in fact improved the conditions of their subjects with new medicines, better economic conditions and greater security? You could fill another encyclopedia with their achievements. Due to their close cooperation with science, these empires wielded so much power and changed the world to such an extent that perhaps they cannot be simply labelled as good or evil. They created the world as we know it, including the ideologies we use in order to judge them." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In this, humans are similar to other domesticated animals. We have bred docile cows that produce enormous amounts of milk but are otherwise far inferior to their wild ancestors. They are less agile, less curious, and less resourceful.34 We are now creating tame humans that produce enormous amounts of data and function as very efficient chips in a huge data-processing mechanism, but these data-cows hardly maximize the human potential. Indeed, we have no idea what our full human potential is, because we know so little about the human mind. And yet we don’t invest much in exploring the human mind, instead focusing on increasing the speed of our internet connections and the efficiency of our Big Data algorithms. If we are not careful, we will end up with downgraded humans misusing upgraded computers to wreak havoc on themselves and on the world." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Religion is interested above all in order. It aims to create and maintain the social structure. Science is interested above all in power. Through research, it aims to acquire the power to cure diseases, fight wars and produce food. As individuals, scientists and priests may give immense importance to the truth; but as collective institutions, science and religion prefer order and power over truth. They therefore make good bedfellows. The uncompromising quest for truth is a spiritual journey, which can seldom remain within the confines of either religious or scientific establishments." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Consider a resident of Berlin, born in 1900 and living to the ripe age of one hundred. She spent her childhood in the Hohenzollern Empire of William II; her adult years in the Weimar Republic, the Nazi Third Reich and Communist East Germany; and she died a citizen of a democratic and reunified Germany. She had managed to be a part of five very different sociopolitical systems, though her DNA remained exactly the same." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In the 300 years from the crucifixion of Christ to the conversion of Emperor Constantine, polytheistic Roman emperors initiated no more than four general persecutions of Christians. Local administrators and governors incited some anti-Christian violence of their own. Still, if we combine all the victims of all these persecutions, it turns out that in these three centuries, the polytheistic Romans killed no more than a few thousand Christians.1 In contrast, over the course of the next 1,500 years, Christians slaughtered Christians by the millions to defend slightly different interpretations of the religion of love and compassion." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It is extremely hard to discover the truth when you are ruling the world. You are just far too busy." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Romantic literature often presents the individual as somebody caught in a struggle against the state and the market. Nothing could be further from the truth. The state and the market are the mother and father of the individual, and the individual can survive only thanks to them. The market provides us with work, insurance and a pension. If we want to study a profession, the government’s schools are there to teach us. If we want to open a business, the bank loans us money. If we want to build a house, a construction company builds it and the bank gives us a mortgage, in some cases subsidised or insured by the state. If violence flares up, the police protect us. If we are sick for a few days, our health insurance takes care of us. If we are debilitated for months, social security steps in. If we need around-the-clock assistance, we can go to the market and hire a nurse – usually some stranger from the other side of the world who takes care of us with the kind of devotion that we no longer expect from our own children. If we have the means, we can spend our golden years at a senior citizens’ home. The tax authorities treat us as individuals, and do not expect us to pay the neighbours’ taxes. The courts, too, see us as individuals, and never punish us for the crimes of our cousins.Not only adult men, but also women and children, are recognised as individuals. Throughout most of history, women were often seen as the property of family or community. Modern states, on the other hand, see women as individuals, enjoying economic and legal rights independently of their family and community. They may hold their own bank accounts, decide whom to marry, and even choose to divorce or live on their own.But the liberation of the individual comes at a cost. Many of us now bewail the loss of strong families and communities and feel alienated and threatened by the power the impersonal state and market wield over our lives. States and markets composed of alienated individuals can intervene in the lives of their members much more easily than states and markets composed of strong families and communities. When neighbours in a high-rise apartment building cannot even agree on how much to pay their janitor, how can we expect them to resist the state?The deal between states, markets and individuals is an uneasy one. The state and the market disagree about their mutual rights and obligations, and individuals complain that both demand too much and provide too little. In many cases individuals are exploited by markets, and states employ their armies, police forces and bureaucracies to persecute individuals instead of defending them. Yet it is amazing that this deal works at all – however imperfectly. For it breaches countless generations of human social arrangements. Millions of years of evolution have designed us to live and think as community members. Within a mere two centuries we have become alienated individuals. Nothing testifies better to the awesome power of culture." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Tolerance is not a Sapiens trademark." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Most sociopolitical hierarchies lack a logical or biological basis – they are nothing but the perpetuation of chance events supported by myths. That is one good reason to study history." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Nothing was as revolting to American southerners (and many northerners) as sexual relations and marriage between black men and white women. Sex between the races became the greatest taboo and any violation, or suspected violation, was viewed as deserving immediate and summary punishment in the form of lynching. The Ku Klux Klan, a white supremacist secret society, perpetrated many such killings. They could have taught the Hindu Brahmins a thing or two about purity laws." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“There are no gods in the universe, no nations, no money, no human rights, no laws, and no justice outside the common imagination of human beings" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Most top predators of the planet are majestic creatures. Millions of years of dominion have filled them with self-confidence. Sapiens by contrast is more like a banana republic dictator. Having so recently been one of the underdogs of the savannah, we are full of fears and anxieties over our position, which makes us doubly cruel and dangerous." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“To survive and flourish in such a world, you will need a lot of mental flexibility and great reserves of emotional balance. You will have to repeatedly let go of some of what you know best, and feel at home with the unknown." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The Battle of Good and Evil Polytheism gave birth not merely to monotheist religions, but also to dualistic ones. Dualistic religions espouse the existence of two opposing powers: good and evil. Unlike monotheism, dualism believes that evil is an independent power, neither created by the good God, nor subordinate to it. Dualism explains that the entire universe is a battleground between these two forces, and that everything that happens in the world is part of the struggle. Dualism is a very attractive world view because it has a short and simple answer to the famous Problem of Evil, one of the fundamental concerns of human thought. ‘Why is there evil in the world? Why is there suffering? Why do bad things happen to good people?’ Monotheists have to practise intellectual gymnastics to explain how an all-knowing, all-powerful and perfectly good God allows so much suffering in the world. One well-known explanation is that this is God’s way of allowing for human free will. Were there no evil, humans could not choose between good and evil, and hence there would be no free will. This, however, is a non-intuitive answer that immediately raises a host of new questions. Freedom of will allows humans to choose evil. Many indeed choose evil and, according to the standard monotheist account, this choice must bring divine punishment in its wake. If God knew in advance that a particular person would use her free will to choose evil, and that as a result she would be punished for this by eternal tortures in hell, why did God create her? Theologians have written countless books to answer such questions. Some find the answers convincing. Some don’t. What’s undeniable is that monotheists have a hard time dealing with the Problem of Evil. For dualists, it’s easy to explain evil. Bad things happen even to good people because the world is not governed single-handedly by a good God. There is an independent evil power loose in the world. The evil power does bad things. Dualism has its own drawbacks. While solving the Problem of Evil, it is unnerved by the Problem of Order. If the world was created by a single God, it’s clear why it is such an orderly place, where everything obeys the same laws. But if Good and Evil battle for control of the world, who enforces the laws governing this cosmic war? Two rival states can fight one another because both obey the same laws of physics. A missile launched from Pakistan can hit targets in India because gravity works the same way in both countries. When Good and Evil fight, what common laws do they obey, and who decreed these laws? So, monotheism explains order, but is mystified by evil. Dualism explains evil, but is puzzled by order. There is one logical way of solving the riddle: to argue that there is a single omnipotent God who created the entire universe – and He’s evil. But nobody in history has had the stomach for such a belief. Dualistic" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Would the book of Genesis have declared that Neanderthals descend from Adam and Eve, would Jesus have died for the sins of the Denisovans, and would the Qur’an have reserved seats in heaven for all righteous humans, whatever their species?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Whereas in ancient agricultural societies human violence caused about 15 per cent of all deaths, during the twentieth century violence caused only 5 per cent of deaths, and in the early twenty-first century it is responsible for about 1 per cent of global mortality.22 In 2012 about 56 million people died throughout the world; 620,000 of them died due to human violence (war killed 120,000 people, and crime killed another 500,000). In contrast, 800,000 committed suicide, and 1.5 million died of diabetes.23 Sugar is now more dangerous than gunpowder. Even" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“We aren’t born with a ready-made conscience. As we pass through life, we hurt people and people hurt us, we act compassionately and others show compassion to us. If we pay attention, our moral sensitivity sharpens, and these experiences become a source of valuable ethical knowledge about what is good, what is right and who I really am.Humanism thus sees life as a gradual process of inner change, leading from ignorance to enlightenment by means of experiences. The highest aim of humanist life is to fully develop your knowledge through a large variety of intellectual, emotional and physical experiences. In the early nineteenth century, Wilhelm von Humboldt – one of the chief architects of the modern education system – said that the aim of existence is ‘a distillation of the widest possible experience of life into wisdom’. He also wrote that ‘there is only one summit in life – to have taken the measure in feeling of everything human’. This could well be the humanist motto." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Almost everything people did throughout history was fuelled by solar energy that was captured by plants and converted into muscle power. Human history was consequently dominated by two main cycles: the growth cycles of plants and the changing cycles of solar energy (day and night, summer and winter). When sunlight was scarce and when wheat fields were still green, humans had little energy. Granaries were empty, tax collectors were idle, soldiers found it difficult to move and fight, and kings tended to keep the peace. When the sun shone brightly and the wheat ripened, peasants harvested the crops and filled the granaries. Tax collectors hurried to take their share. Soldiers flexed their muscles and sharpened their swords. Kings convened councils and planned their next campaigns. Everyone was fuelled by solar energy – captured and packaged in wheat, rice and potatoes." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Mathematics leads you to a very scary conclusion: since there is only one real world, whereas the number of potential virtual worlds is infinite, the probability that you happen to inhabit the sole real world is almost zero." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It is the responsibility of all of us to invest time and effort in uncovering our biases and in verifying our sources of information. As noted in earlier chapters, we cannot investigate everything ourselves. But precisely because of that, we need at least to investigate carefully our favourite sources of information – be they a newspaper, a website, a TV network or a person. In Chapter 20 we will explore in far greater depth how to avoid brainwashing and how to distinguish reality from fiction. Here I would like to offer two simple rules of thumb.First, if you want reliable information – pay good money for it. If you get your news for free, you might well be the product. Suppose a shady billionaire offered you the following deal: ‘I will pay you $30 a month, and in exchange, you will allow me to brainwash you for an hour every day, installing in your mind whichever political and commercial biases I want.’ Would you take the deal? Few sane people would. So the shady billionaire offers a slightly different deal: ‘You will allow me to brainwash you for one hour every day, and in exchange, I will not charge you anything for this service.The second rule of thumb is that if some issue seems exceptionally important to you, make the effort to read the relevant scientific literature. And by scientific literature I mean peer-reviewed articles, books published by well-known academic publishers, and the writings of professors from reputable institutions. Science obviously has its limitations, and it has got many things wrong in the past. Nevertheless, the scientific community has been our most reliable source of knowledge for centuries. If you think that the scientific community is wrong about something, that’s certainly possible, but at least know the scientific theories you are rejecting, and provide some empirical evidence to support your claim." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Politics, too, is a second-order chaotic system. Many people criticise Sovietologists for failing to predict the 1989 revolutions and castigate Middle East experts for not anticipating the Arab Spring revolutions of 2011. This is unfair. Revolutions are, by definition, unpredictable. A predictable revolution never erupts." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Though it has no intrinsic value – you cannot eat or drink a dollar bill – trust in the dollar and in the wisdom of the Federal Reserve is so firm that it is shared even by Islamic fundamentalists, Mexican drug lords and North Korean tyrants." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“terrorists resemble a fly that tries to destroy a china shop. The fly is so weak that it cannot move even a single teacup. So how does a fly destroy a china shop? It finds a bull, gets inside its ear, and starts buzzing. The bull goes wild with fear and anger, and destroys the china shop. This is what happened after 9/ 11, as Islamic fundamentalists incited the American bull to destroy the Middle Eastern china shop. Now they flourish in the wreckage. And there is no shortage of short-tempered bulls in the world." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“You might object that people were asked ‘What do you think?’ rather than ‘What do you feel?’, but this is a common misperception. Referendums and elections are always about human feelings, not about human rationality. If democracy were a matter of rational decision-making, there would be absolutely no reason to give all people equal voting rights – or perhaps any voting rights. There is ample evidence that some people are far more knowledgeable and rational than others, certainly when it comes to specific economic and political questions." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“People feel bound by democratic elections only when they share a basic bond with most other voters. If the experience of other voters is alien to me, and if I believe they don’t understand my feelings and don’t care about my vital interests, then even if I am outvoted by a hundred to one I have absolutely no reason to accept the verdict. Democratic elections usually work only within populations that have some prior common bond, such as shared religious beliefs or national myths. They are a method to settle disagreements among people who already agree on the basics." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The real difference between us and chimpanzees is the mythical glue that binds together large numbers of individuals, families and groups." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“One of history’s few iron laws is that luxuries tend to become necessities and to spawn new obligations" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Whereas in 2010 obesity and related illnesses killed about 3 million people, terrorists killed a total of 7,697 people across the globe, most of them in developing countries.25 For the average American or European, Coca-Cola poses a far deadlier threat than al-Qaeda. How," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It isn’t a coincidence that skepticism about climate change tends to be the preserve of the nationalist right. You rarely see left-wing socialists tweet that “climate change is a Chinese hoax.” Since there is no national answer to the problem of global warming, some nationalist politicians prefer to believe the problem does not exist.15" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If somebody describes to you the world of the mid twenty-first century and it sounds like science fiction, it is probably false. But then if somebody describes to you the world of the mid twenty-first century and it doesn’t sound like science fiction – it is certainly false. We cannot be sure of the specifics, but change itself is the only certainty." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What is happening right now? What are today’s greatest challenges and most important choices? What should we pay attention to? What should we teach our kids?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Yet like many other human traits that made sense in past ages but cause trouble in the modern age, the knowledge illusion has its downside. The world is becoming ever more complex, and people fail to realise just how ignorant they are of what’s going on. Consequently some who know next to nothing about meteorology or biology nevertheless propose policies regarding climate change and genetically modified crops, while others hold extremely strong views about what should be done in Iraq or Ukraine without being able to locate these countries on a map. People rarely appreciate their ignorance, because they lock themselves inside an echo chamber of like-minded friends and self-confirming newsfeeds, where their beliefs are constantly reinforced and seldom challenged.Providing people with more and better information is unlikely to improve matters. Scientists hope to dispel wrong views by better science education, and pundits hope to sway public opinion on issues such as Obamacare or global warming by presenting the public with accurate facts and expert reports. Such hopes are grounded in a misunderstanding of how humans actually think. Most of our views are shaped by communal groupthink rather than individual rationality, and we hold on to these views out of group loyalty. Bombarding people with facts and exposing their individual ignorance is likely to backfire. Most people don’t like too many facts, and they certainly don’t like to feel stupid. Don’t be so sure that you can convince Tea Party supporters of the truth of global warming by presenting them with sheets of statistical data." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Even worse, greedy bosses might curtail the workers’ freedom of movement through debt peonage or slavery. At the end of the Middle Ages, slavery was almost unknown in Christian Europe. During the early modern period, the rise of European capitalism went hand in hand with the rise of the Atlantic slave trade. Unrestrained market forces, rather than tyrannical kings or racist ideologues, were responsible for this calamity." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Just as the Atlantic slave trade did not stem from hatred towards Africans, so the modern animal industry is not motivated by animosity. Again, it is fuelled by indifference." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“They were too familiar to ignore, but too different to tolerate." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The third of the biblical Ten Commandments instructs humans never to make wrongful use of the name of God. People tend to understand this in a childish way, as a prohibition on uttering the explicit name of God (as in the famous Monty Python sketch 'If you say Jehovah...'). Perhaps the deeper meaning of this commandment is that we should never use the name of God to justify our political interests, our economic ambitions, or our personal hatreds. As a resident of the Middle East I am keenly aware how often people break this commandment. The world would be a much better place if we followed it more devotedly. You want to wage war on your neighbours and steal their land? Leave God out of it, and find yourself some other excuse." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Some of the cultural, legal and political disparities between men and women reflect the obvious biological differences between the sexes. Childbearing has always been women’s job, because men don’t have wombs. Yet around this hard universal kernel, every society accumulated layer upon layer of cultural ideas and norms that have little to do with biology. Societies associate a host of attributes with masculinity and femininity that, for the most part, lack a firm biological basis." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Much of the vaunted material wealth that shields us from disease and famine was accumulated at the expense of laboratory monkeys, dairy cows and conveyor-belt chickens. Over the last two centuries tens of billions of them have been subjected to a regime of industrial exploitation whose cruelty has no precedent in the annals of planet Earth. If we accept a mere tenth of what animal-rights activists are claiming, then modern industrial agriculture might well be the greatest crime in history. When evaluating global happiness, it is wrong to count the happiness only of the upper classes, of Europeans or of men. Perhaps it is also wrong to consider only the happiness of humans." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Democratic elections usually work only within populations that have some prior common bond, such as shared religious beliefs or national myths. They are a method to settle disagreements among people who already agree on the basics." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“How then should the state deal with terrorism? A successful counter-terrorism struggle should be conducted on three fronts. First, governments should focus on clandestine actions against the terror networks. Second, the media should keep things in perspective and avoid hysteria. The theatre of terror cannot succeed without publicity. Unfortunately, the media all too often provides this publicity for free. It obsessively reports terror attacks and greatly inflates their danger, because reports on terrorism sell newspapers much better than reports on diabetes or air pollution.The third front is the imagination of each and every one of us. Terrorists hold our imagination captive, and use it against us. Again and again we rehearse the terrorist attack on the stage of our mind – remembering 9/11 or the latest suicide bombings. The terrorists kill a hundred people – and cause 100 million to imagine that there is a murderer lurking behind every tree. It is the responsibility of every citizen to liberate his or her imagination from the terrorists, and to remind ourselves of the true dimensions of this threat. It is our own inner terror that prompts the media to obsess about terrorism, and the government to overreact.The success or failure of terrorism thus depends on us. If we allow our imagination to be captured by the terrorists, and then overreact to our own fears – terrorism will succeed. If we free our imagination from the terrorists, and react in a balanced and cool way – terrorism will fail." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In the Middle Ages, marriage was considered a sacrament ordained by God, and God also authorised the father to marry his children according to his wishes and interests. An extramarital affair was accordingly a brazen rebellion against both divine and parental authority. It was a mortal sin, no matter what the lovers felt and thought about it. Today people marry for love, and it is their inner feelings that give value to this bond. Hence, if the very same feelings that once drove you into the arms of one man now drive you into the arms of another, what’s wrong with that? If an extramarital affair provides an outlet for emotional and sexual desires that are not satisfied by your spouse of twenty years, and if your new lover is kind, passionate and sensitive to your needs – why not enjoy it?But wait a minute, you might say. We cannot ignore the feelings of the other concerned parties. The woman and her lover might feel wonderful in each other’s arms, but if their respective spouses find out, everybody will probably feel awful for quite some time. And if it leads to divorce, their children might carry the emotional scars for decades. Even if the affair is never discovered, hiding it involves a lot of tension, and may lead to growing feelings of alienation and resentment.The most interesting discussions in humanist ethics concern situations like extramarital affairs, when human feelings collide. What happens when the same action causes one person to feel good, and another to feel bad? How do we weigh the feelings against each other? Do the good feelings of the two lovers outweigh the bad feelings of their spouses and children?It doesn’t matter what you think about this particular question. It is far more important to understand the kind of arguments both sides deploy. Modern people have differing ideas about extramarital affairs, but no matter what their position is, they tend to justify it in the name of human feelings rather than in the name of holy scriptures and divine commandments. Humanism has taught us that something can be bad only if it causes somebody to feel bad. Murder is wrong not because some god once said, ‘Thou shalt not kill.’ Rather, murder is wrong because it causes terrible suffering to the victim, to his family members, and to his friends and acquaintances. Theft is wrong not because some ancient text says, ‘Thou shalt not steal.’ Rather, theft is wrong because when you lose your property, you feel bad about it. And if an action does not cause anyone to feel bad, there can be nothing wrong about it. If the same ancient text says that God commanded us not to make any images of either humans or animals (Exodus 20:4), but I enjoy sculpting such figures, and I don’t harm anyone in the process – then what could possibly be wrong with it?The same logic dominates current debates on homosexuality. If two adult men enjoy having sex with one another, and they don’t harm anyone while doing so, why should it be wrong, and why should we outlaw it? It is a private matter between these two men, and they are free to decide about it according to their inner feelings. In the Middle Ages, if two men confessed to a priest that they were in love with one another, and that they never felt so happy, their good feelings would not have changed the priest’s damning judgement – indeed, their happiness would only have worsened the situation. Today, in contrast, if two men love one another, they are told: ‘If it feels good – do it! Don’t let any priest mess with your mind. Just follow your heart. You know best what’s good for you." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“This is the best reason to learn history: not in order to predict the future, but to free yourself of the past and imagine alternative destinies. Of course this is not total freedom - we cannot avoid being shaped by the past. But some freedom is better than none." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“That's how history unfolds. People weave a web of meaning, believe in it with all their heart, but sooner or later the web unravels, and when we look back we cannot understand how anybody could have taken it seriously. (p.175)" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Perhaps we are all living inside a giant computer simulation, Matrix-style. That would contradict all our national, religious and ideological stories. But our mental experiences would still be real. If it turns out that human history is an elaborate simulation run on a super-computer by rat scientists from the planet Zircon, that would be rather embarrassing for Karl Marx and the Islamic State. But these rat scientists would still have to answer for the Armenian genocide and for Auschwitz. How did they get that one past the Zircon University’s ethics committee? Even if the gas chambers were just electric signals in silicon chips, the experiences of pain, fear and despair were not one iota less excruciating for that.Pain is pain, fear is fear, and love is love – even in the matrix. It doesn’t matter if the fear you feel is inspired by a collection of atoms in the outside world or by electrical signals manipulated by a computer. The fear is still real. So if you want to explore the reality of your mind, you can do that inside the matrix as well as outside it." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Feelings are thus not the opposite of rationality - they embody evolutionary rationality." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Modern culture rejects this belief in a great cosmic plan. We are not actors in any larger-than-life drama. Life has no script, no playwright, no director, no producer – and no meaning. To the best of our scientific understanding, the universe is a blind and purposeless process, full of sound and fury but signifying nothing. During our infinitesimally brief stay on our tiny speck of a planet, we fret and strut this way and that, and then are heard of no more. Since there is no script, and since humans fulfil no role in any great drama, terrible things might befall us and no power will come to save us or give meaning to our suffering. There won’t be a happy ending, or a bad ending, or any ending at all. Things just happen, one after the other. The modern world does not believe in purpose, only in cause. If modernity has a motto, it is ‘shit happens’." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you really want truth, you need to escape the black hole of power, and allow yourself to waste a lot of time wandering here and there on the periphery. Revolutionary knowledge rarely makes it to the centre, because the centre is built on existing knowledge." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Moreover, despite the astonishing things that humans are capable of doing, we remain unsure of our goals and we seem to be as discontented as ever. We have advanced from canoes to galleys to steamships to space shuttles – but nobody knows where we’re going. We are more powerful than ever before, but have very little idea what to do with all that power. Worse still, humans seem to be more irresponsible than ever. Self-made gods with only the laws of physics to keep us company, we are accountable to no one. We are consequently wreaking havoc on our fellow animals and on the surrounding ecosystem, seeking little more than our own comfort and amusement, yet never finding satisfaction. Is there anything more dangerous than dissatisfied and irresponsible gods who don’t know what they want?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The advent of cooking enabled humans to eat more kinds of food, to devote less time to eating, and to make do with smaller teeth and shorter intestines. Some scholars believe there is a direct link between the advent of cooking, the shortening of the human intestinal track, and the growth of the human brain. Since long intestines and large brains are both massive energy consumers, it’s hard to have both. By shortening the intestines and decreasing their energy consumption, cooking inadvertently opened the way to the jumbo brains of Neanderthals and Sapiens." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Consumerism tells us that in order to be happy we must consume as many products and services as possible. If we feel that something is missing or not quite right, then we probably need to buy a product (a car, new clothes, organic food) or a service (housekeeping, relationship therapy, yoga classes). Every television commercial is another little legend about how consuming some product or service will make life better." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Thus the Brexit debate in Britain –a major nuclear power –revolved mainly around questions of economics and immigration, while the vital contribution of the EU to European and global peace has largely been ignored. After centuries of terrible bloodshed, French, Germans, Italians and Britons have finally built a mechanism that ensures continental harmony –only to have the British public throw a spanner into the miracle machine." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Studying history aims to loosen the grip of the past. It enables us to turn our head this way and that, and begin to notice possibilities that our ancestors could not imagine, or didn’t want us to imagine. By observing the accidental chain of events that led us here, we realise how our very thoughts and dreams took shape – and we can begin to think and dream differently. Studying history will not tell us what to choose, but at least it gives us more options.Movements seeking to change the world often begin by rewriting history, thereby enabling people to reimagine the future. Whether you want workers to go on a general strike, women to take possession of their bodies, or oppressed minorities to demand political rights – the first step is to retell their history. The new history will explain that ‘our present situation is neither natural nor eternal. Things were different once. Only a string of chance events created the unjust world we know today. If we act wisely, we can change that world, and create a much better one.’ This is why Marxists recount the history of capitalism; why feminists study the formation of patriarchal societies; and why African Americans commemorate the horrors of the slave trade. They aim not to perpetuate the past, but rather to be liberated from it." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Voltaire said about God that ‘there is no God, but don’t tell that to my servant, lest he murder me at night’." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“When it comes to climate, countries are just not sovereign. They are at the mercy of actions taken by people on the other side of the planet. The Republic of Kiribati, an island nation in the Pacific Ocean, could reduce its greenhouse gas emissions to zero and nevertheless be submerged under the rising waves if other countries don’t follow suit." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“La búsqueda de una vida más fácil trajo muchas privaciones, y no por última vez. En la actualidad nos ocurre a nosotros. ¿Cuántos jóvenes graduados universitarios han accedido a puestos de trabajo exigentes en empresas potentes, y se han comprometido solemnemente a trabajar duro para ganar dinero que les permita retirarse y dedicarse a sus intereses reales cuando lleguen a los treinta y cinco años? Pero cuando llegan a esa edad, tienen hipotecas elevadas, hijos que van a la escuela, casa en las urbanizaciones, dos coches como mínimo por familia y la sensación de que la vida no vale la pena vivirla sin vino realmente bueno y unas vacaciones caras en el extranjero. ¿Qué se supone que tienen que hacer, volver a excavar raíces? No, redoblan sus esfuerzos y siguen trabajando como esclavos." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“once you stop craving particular feelings, you can just accept them for what they are. You live in the present moment instead of fantasising about what might have been. The resulting serenity is so profound that those who spend their lives in the frenzied pursuit of pleasant feelings can hardly imagine it. It is like a man standing for decades on the seashore, embracing certain ‘good’ waves and trying to prevent them from disintegrating, while simultaneously pushing back ‘bad’ waves to prevent them from getting near him. Day in, day out, the man stands on the beach, driving himself crazy with this fruitless exercise. Eventually, he sits down on the sand and just allows the waves to come and go as they please. How peaceful!" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Those living in palaces have always had different agendas to those living in shacks, and that is unlikely to change in the twenty-first century." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“How did wheat convince Homo sapiens to exchange a rather good life for a more miserable existence? What did it offer in return? It did not offer a better diet. Remember, humans are omnivorous apes who thrive on a wide variety of foods. Grains made up only a small fraction of the human diet before the Agricultural Revolution. A diet based on cereals is poor in minerals and vitamins, hard to digest, and really bad for your teeth and gums." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Abraham Lincoln said you cannot deceive everybody all the time. Well, that’s wishful thinking. In practice, the power of human cooperation networks depends on a delicate balance between truth and fiction. If you distort reality too much, it will weaken you, and you will not be able to compete against more clear-sighted rivals. On the other hand, you cannot organise masses of people effectively without relying on some fictional myths. So if you stick to unalloyed reality, without mixing any fiction with it, few people will follow you." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Chapter 20 we will explore in far greater depth how to avoid brainwashing and how to distinguish reality from fiction. Here I would like to offer two simple rules of thumb. First, if you want reliable information, pay good money for it. If you get your news for free, you might well be the product. Suppose a shady billionaire offered you the following deal: “I will pay you $30 a month, and in exchange you will allow me to brainwash you for an hour every day, installing in your mind whichever political and commercial biases I want.” Would you take the deal? Few sane people would. So the shady billionaire offers a slightly different deal: “You will allow me to brainwash you for one hour every day, and in exchange, I will not charge you anything for this service.” Now the deal suddenly sounds tempting to hundreds of millions of people. Don’t follow their example. The second rule of thumb is that if some issue seems exceptionally important to you, make the effort to read the relevant scientific literature. And by scientific literature I mean peer-reviewed articles, books published by well-known academic publishers, and the writings of professors from reputable institutions. Science obviously has its limitations, and it has gotten many things wrong in the past. Nevertheless, the scientific community has been our most reliable source of knowledge for centuries. If you think the scientific community is wrong about something, that’s certainly possible, but at least know the scientific theories you are rejecting, and provide some empirical evidence to support your claim. Scientists, for their part, need to be far more engaged with current public debates. Scientists should not be afraid of making their voices heard when the debate wanders into their field of expertise, be it medicine or history. Of course, it is extremely important to go on doing academic research and to publish the results in scientific journals that only a few experts read. But it is equally important to communicate the latest scientific theories to the general public through popular science books, and even through the skillful use of art and fiction. Does that mean scientists should start writing science fiction? That is actually not such a bad idea. Art plays a key role in shaping people’s views of the world, and in the twenty-first century science fiction is arguably the most important genre of all, for it shapes how most people understand things such as AI, bioengineering, and climate change. We certainly need good science, but from a political perspective, a good science-fiction movie is worth far more than an article in Science or Nature." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“A global world puts unprecedented pressure on our personal conduct and morality. Each of us is ensnared within numerous all-encompassing spider webs, which on the one hand restrict our movements, but at the same time transmit our tiniest jiggle to faraway destinations. Our daily routines influence the lives of people and animals halfway across the world, and some personal gestures can unexpectedly set the entire world ablaze, as happened with the self-immolation of Mohamed Bouazizi in Tunisia, which ignited the Arab Spring, and with the women who shared their stories of sexual harassment and sparked the #MeToo movement. This global dimension of our personal lives means that it is more important than ever to uncover our religious and political biases, our racial and gender privileges, and our unwitting complicity in institutional oppression. But is that a realistic enterprise? How can I find a firm ethical ground in a world that extends far beyond my horizons, that spins completely out of human control, and that holds all gods and ideologies suspect?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“THE INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION OPENED up new ways to convert energy and to produce goods, largely liberating humankind from its dependence on the surrounding ecosystem. Humans cut down forests, drained swamps, dammed rivers, flooded plains, laid down hundreds of thousands of miles of railroad tracks, and built skyscraping metropolises. As the world was moulded to fit the needs of Homo sapiens, habitats were destroyed and species went extinct. Our once green and blue planet is becoming a concrete and plastic shopping centre." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Yet even though Herodotus and Thucydides understood reality much better than the authors of the Bible, when the two world views collided, the Bible won by a knockout. The Greeks adopted the Jewish view of history, rather than vice versa. A thousand years after Thucydides, the Greeks became convinced that if some barbarian horde invaded, surely it was divine punishment for their sins. No matter how mistaken the biblical world view was, it provided a better basis for large-scale human cooperation." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In order to flourish we still need to ground ourselves in intimate communities. For millions of years, humans have been adapted to living in small bands of no more than a few dozen people. Even today most of us find it impossible to really know more than 150 individuals, irrespective of how many Facebook friends we boast.4 And if we don’t belong to any intimate community, we humans feel lonely and alienated." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Notwithstanding the danger of mass unemployment, what we should worry about even more is the shift in authority from humans to algorithms, which might destroy any remaining faith in the liberal story and open the way to the rise of digital dictatorships." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“At the age of twenty-nine Gautama slipped away from his palace in the middle of the night, leaving behind his family and possessions. He travelled as a homeless vagabond throughout northern India, searching for a way out of suffering. He visited ashrams and sat at the feet of gurus but nothing liberated him entirely – some dissatisfaction always remained. He did not despair. He resolved to investigate suffering on his own until he found a method for complete liberation. He spent six years meditating on the essence, causes and cures for human anguish. In the end he came to the realisation that suffering is not caused by ill fortune, by social injustice, or by divine whims. Rather, suffering is caused by the behaviour patterns of one’s own mind. Gautama’s insight was that no matter what the mind experiences, it usually reacts with craving, and craving always involves dissatisfaction. When the mind experiences something distasteful it craves to be rid of the irritation. When the mind experiences something pleasant, it craves that the pleasure will remain and will intensify. Therefore, the mind is always dissatisfied and restless. This is very clear when we experience unpleasant things, such as pain. As long as the pain continues, we are dissatisfied and do all we can to avoid it. Yet even when we experience pleasant things we are never content. We either fear that the pleasure might disappear, or we hope that it will intensify. People dream for years about finding love but are rarely satisfied when they find it. Some become anxious that their partner will leave; others feel that they have settled cheaply, and could have found someone better. And we all know people who manage to do both." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Contrary to common wisdom, nationalism is not a natural and eternal part of the human psyche, and it is not rooted in human biology." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Terrorists are like a fly that tries to destroy a china shop. The fly is so weak that it cannot budge even a single teacup. So it finds a bull, gets inside its ear and starts buzzing." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“THE ANCIENT ROMANS WERE USED TO being defeated. Like the rulers of most of history’s great empires, they could lose battle after battle but still win the war." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Then what will happen tomorrow? Nobody knows." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The inter-subjective is something that exists within the communication network linking the subjective consciousness of many individuals. If a single individual changes his or her beliefs, or even dies, it is of little importance. However, if most individuals in the network die or change their beliefs, the inter-subjective phenomenon will mutate or disappear. Inter-subjective phenomena are neither malevolent frauds nor insignificant charades. They exist in a different way from physical phenomena such as radioactivity, but their impact on the world may still be enormous. Many of history’s most important drivers are inter-subjective: law, money, gods, nations." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If a species boasts many DNA copies, it is a success, and the species flourishes. From such a perspective, 1,000 copies are always better than a hundred copies. This is the essence of the Agricultural Revolution: the ability to keep more people alive under worse conditions." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“One interesting conclusion is that money does indeed bring happiness. But only up to a point, and beyond that point it has little significance. For" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The ability to navigate is like a muscle—use it or lose it." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Due to this dualist legacy, every journey on which we doubt the conventions and deals of the mundane world and walk towards an unknown destination is called ‘a spiritual journey’.Such journeys are fundamentally different from religions, because religions seek to cement the worldly order whereas spirituality seeks to escape it." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The world’s first commercial railroad opened for business in 1830, in Britain. By 1850, Western nations were criss-crossed by almost 25,000 miles of railroads – but in the whole of Asia, Africa and Latin America there were only 2,500 miles of tracks. In 1880, the West boasted more than 220,000 miles of railroads, whereas in the rest of the world there were but 22,000 miles of train lines (and most of these were laid by the British in India).5 The first railroad in China opened only in 1876. It was 15 miles long and built by Europeans – the Chinese government destroyed it the following year. In 1880 the Chinese Empire did not operate a single railroad. The first railroad in Persia was built only in 1888, and it connected Tehran with a Muslim holy site about 6 miles south of the capital. It was constructed and operated by a Belgian company. In 1950, the total railway network of Persia still amounted to a meagre 1,500 miles, in a country seven times the size of Britain." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Most humans never enjoyed greater peace or prosperity than they did under the aegis of the liberal order of the early twenty-first century. For the first time in history, infectious diseases kill fewer people than old age, famine kills fewer people than obesity, and violence kills fewer people than accidents." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“how does a fascist decide what to teach kids in school? He uses the same yardstick. Teach the kids whatever serves the interests of the nation; the truth does not matter." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“La historia de la ética es un triste relato de ideales maravillosos que nadie cumple." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“But fiction has enabled us not merely to imagine things, but to do so collectively. We can weave common myths such as the biblical creation story, the Dreamtime myths of Aboriginal Australians, and the nationalist myths of modern states. Such myths give Sapiens the unprecedented ability to cooperate flexibly in large numbers." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“hence few try to understand what they have signed up for. Like when you download some software and are asked to sign an accompanying contract that consists of dozens of pages of legaleseyou take one look at it, immediately scroll down to the last page, tick ‘I agree’ and forget about it. Yet in fact modernity is a surprisingly simple deal. The entire contract can be summarised in a single phrase: humans agree to give up meaning in exchange for power." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“So our medieval ancestors were happy because they found meaning to life in collective delusions about the afterlife? Yes. As long as nobody punctured their fantasies, why shouldn’t they?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The Hindu caste system and its attendant laws of purity became deeply embedded in Indian culture. Long after the Indo-Aryan invasion was forgotten, Indians continued to believe in the caste system and to abhor the pollution caused by caste mixing." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Vaunted “human intuition” is in reality “pattern recognition." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Feelings are therefore not the opposite of rationality—they embody evolutionary rationality." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“However, over the last few decades the life sciences have reached the conclusion that this liberal story is pure mythology. The single authentic self is as real as the eternal soul, Santa Claus and the Easter Bunny. If I look really deep within myself, the seeming unity that I take for granted dissolves into a cacophony of conflicting voices, none of which is ‘my true self’. Humans aren’t individuals. They are ‘dividuals’." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“both Republicans and Democrats should occasionally take a break from their heated quarrels to remind themselves that they all agree on fundamentals, such as free elections, an independent judiciary, and human rights." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I encourage all of us, whatever our beliefs, to question the basic narratives of our world, to connect past developments with present concerns, and not to be afraid of controversial issues." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“So the best advice I could give a fifteen-year-old stuck in an outdated school somewhere in Mexico, India or Alabama is: don’t rely on the adults too much. Most of them mean well, but they just don’t understand the world." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Unlike the laws of physics, which are free of inconsistencies, every man-made order is packed with internal contradictions. Cultures are constantly trying to reconcile these contradictions, and this process fuels change." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Religion is a system of human norms and values that is founded on belief in a superhuman order." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The first English settlements in North America were established in the early seventeenth century by joint-stock companies such as the London Company, the Plymouth Company, the Dorchester Company and the Massachusetts Company. The Indian subcontinent too was conquered not by the British state, but by the mercenary army of the British East India Company. This company outperformed even the VOC. From its headquarters in Leadenhall Street, London, it ruled a mighty Indian empire for about a century, maintaining a huge military force of up to 350,000 soldiers, considerably outnumbering the armed forces of the British monarchy. Only in 1858 did the British crown nationalise India along with the company’s private army. Napoleon made fun of the British, calling them a nation of shopkeepers. Yet these shopkeepers defeated Napoleon himself, and their empire was the largest the world has ever seen." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you suffer because of your belief in God or in the nation, that does not prove that your beliefs are true. Maybe you are just paying the price of your gullibility. However, most people don't like to admit that they are fools. Consequently, the more they sacrifice for a particular belief, the stronger their faith becomes." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Findings demonstrate that happiness is not the surplus of pleasant over unpleasant moments. Rather, happiness consists in seeing one’s life in its entirety as meaningful and worthwhile. There is an important cognitive and ethical component to happiness. Our values make all the difference to whether we see ourselves as ‘miserable slaves to a baby dictator’ or as ‘lovingly nurturing a new life’. 2 As Nietzsche put it, if you have a why to live, you can bear almost any how. A meaningful life can be extremely satisfying even in the midst of hardship, whereas a meaningless life is a terrible ordeal no matter how comfortable it is. Though people in all cultures and eras have felt the same type of pleasures and pains, the meaning they have ascribed to their experiences has probably varied widely." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“within a mere two decades, billions of people have come to entrust the Google search algorithm with one of the most important tasks of all: searching for relevant and trustworthy information. We no longer search for information. Instead, we google" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Consumerism and nationalism work extra hours to make us imagine that millions of strangers belong to the same community as ourselves, that we have a common past, common interests and a common future. This isn't a lie. It's imagination. Like money, limited liability companies and human rights, nations and consumer tribes are inter-subjective realities. They exist only in our collective imagination, yet their power is immense." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It is relatively easy to accept that money is an intersubjective reality. Most people are also happy to acknowledge that ancient Greek gods, evil empires and the values of alien cultures exist only in the imagination. Yet we don't want to accept that our God, our nation or our values are mere fictions, because these are the things that give meaning to our lives. We want to believe that our lives have some objective meaning, and that our sacrifices matter to something beyond the stories in our head. Yet in truth the lives of most people have meaning only within the network of stories they tell one another." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Today the main source of wealth is knowledge. And whereas you can conquer oil fields through war, you cannot acquire knowledge that way." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The human collective knows far more today than did the ancient bands. But at the individual level, ancient foragers were the most knowledgeable and skilful people in history." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Ever since the Cognitive Revolution, Sapiens have thus been living in a dual reality. On the one hand, the objective reality of rivers, trees and lions; and on the other hand, the imagined reality of gods, nations and corporations. As time went by, the imagined reality became ever more powerful, so that today the very survival of rivers, trees and lions depends on the grace of imagined entities such as the United States and Google" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Corporations, money and nations exist only in our imagination. We invented them to serve us; why do we find ourselves sacrificing our lives in their services?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The most common reaction of the human mind to achievement is not satisfaction, but craving for more. Humans are always on the lookout for something better, bigger, tastier. When humankind possesses enormous new powers, and when the threat of famine, plague and war is finally lifted, what will we do with ourselves? What will the scientists, investors, bankers and presidents do all day? Write poetry? Success breeds ambition, and our recent achievements are now pushing humankind to set itself even more daring goals. Having secured unprecedented levels of prosperity, health and harmony, and given our past record and our current values, humanity’s next targets are likely to be immortality, happiness and divinity. Having reduced mortality from starvation, disease and violence, we will now aim to overcome old age and even death itself. Having saved people from abject misery, we will now aim to make them positively happy. And having raised humanity above the beastly level of survival struggles, we will now aim to upgrade humans into gods, and turn Homo sapiens into Homo deus." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“other organisms are doing quite well. Rats and cockroaches, for example, are in their heyday. These tenacious creatures would probably creep out from beneath the smoking rubble of a nuclear Armageddon, ready and able to spread their DNA. Perhaps 65 million years from now, intelligent rats will look back gratefully on the decimation wrought by humankind, just as we today can thank that dinosaur-busting asteroid." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What then is the secular ideal? The most important secular commitment is to the truth, which is based on observation and evidence rather than on mere faith. Seculars strive not to confuse truth with belief. If you have a very strong belief in some story, that may tell us a lot of interesting things about your psychology, about your childhood, and about your brain structure – but it does not prove that the story is true. (Often, strong beliefs are needed precisely when the story isn’t true.)" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Anton Chekhov famously said that a gun appearing in the first act of a play will inevitably be fired in the third. Throughout" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Розповідати ефективні фантазії нелегко. Складність полягає не у власне розповіданні байки, а в тому, щоб переконати в неї повірити. Більша частина світової історії обертається саме навколо цього питання: як переконати мільйони людей повірити в конкретні розповіді про богів, нації або товариства з обмеженою відповідальністю? А проте коли це вдається, величезна влада дозволяє мільйонам чужих людей співпрацювати та рухатися до спільної мети." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The big question facing humans isn’t “what is the meaning of life?” but rather “how do we stop suffering?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“what people might really need are the tools to connect to their own experiences." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Consequently, people live ever more lonely lives in an ever more connected planet. Many of the social and political disruptions of our time can be traced back to this malaise." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Why does the theory of evolution provoke such objections, whereas nobody seems to care about the theory of relativity or quantum mechanics? How come politicians don’t ask that kids be exposed to alternative theories about matter, energy, space and time? After all, Darwin’s ideas seem at first sight far less threatening than the monstrosities of Einstein and Werner Heisenberg. The theory of evolution rests on the principle of the survival of the fittest, which is a clear and simple – not to say humdrum – idea. In contrast, the theory of relativity and quantum mechanics argue that you can twist time and space, that something can appear out of nothing, and that a cat can be both alive and dead at the same time. This makes a mockery of our common sense, yet nobody seeks to protect innocent schoolchildren from these scandalous ideas. Why?The theory of relativity makes nobody angry, because it doesn’t contradict any of our cherished beliefs. Most people don’t care an iota whether space and time are absolute or relative. If you think it is possible to bend space and time, well, be my guest. Go ahead and bend them. What do I care? In contrast, Darwin has deprived us of our souls. If you really understand the theory of evolution, you understand that there is no soul. This is a terrifying thought not only to devout Christians and Muslims, but also to many secular people who don’t hold any clear religious dogma, but nevertheless want to believe that each human possesses an eternal individual essence that remains unchanged throughout life, and can survive even death intact." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“China the Communist Party still pays lip service to traditional Marxist–Leninist ideals, but in practice it is guided by Deng Xiaoping’s famous maxims that ‘development is the only hard truth’ and that ‘it doesn’t matter if a cat is black or white, so long as it catches mice’. Which means, in plain language: do anything it takes to promote economic growth, even if Marx and Lenin wouldn’t have been happy with it. In Singapore, as befits that no-nonsense city state, they followed this line of thinking even further, and pegged ministerial salaries to the national GDP. When the Singaporean economy grows, ministers get a raise, as if that is what their job is all about" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In the early twenty-first century the train of progress is again pulling out of the station – and this will probably be the last train ever to leave the station called Homo sapiens. Those who miss this train will never get a second chance. In order to get a seat on it you need to understand twenty-first-century technology, and in particular the powers of biotechnology and computer algorithms. These powers are far more potent than steam and the telegraph, and they will not be used merely for the production of food, textiles, vehicles and weapons. The main products of the twenty-first century will be bodies, brains and minds, and the gap between those who know how to engineer bodies and brains and those who do not will be far bigger than the gap between Dickens’s Britain and the Mahdi’s Sudan. Indeed, it will be bigger than the gap between Sapiens and Neanderthals. In the twenty-first century, those who ride the train of progress will acquire divine abilities of creation and destruction, while those left behind will face extinction." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Money comes to money, and poverty to poverty. Education comes to education, and ignorance to ignorance. Those once victimised by history are likely to be victimised yet again. And those whom history has privileged are more likely to be privileged again." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“By 2050, not only the idea of a job for life but even that of a profession for life might seem antediluvian." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“With regard to other animals, humans have long since become gods. We don’t like to reflect on this too deeply, because we have not been particularly just or merciful gods." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I choose to want to. This is of course false. I don’t choose my desires. I only feel them, and act accordingly." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“As bureaucracies accumulate power, they become immune to their own mistakes. Instead of changing their stories to fit reality, they can change reality to fit their stories. In" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Any large-scale human cooperation – whether a modern state, a medieval church, an ancient city or an archaic tribe – is rooted in common myths that exist only in people’s collective imagination." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Democracy is based on Abraham Lincoln’s principle that ‘you can fool all the people some of the time, and some of the people all the time, but you cannot fool all the people all the time’. If a government is corrupt and fails to improve people’s lives, enough citizens will eventually realise this and replace the government. But government control of the media undermines Lincoln’s logic, because it prevents citizens from realising the truth. Through its monopoly over the media, the ruling oligarchy can repeatedly blame all its failures on others, and divert attention to external threats – either real or imaginary." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Merchants, conquerors and prophets were the first people who managed to transcend the binary evolutionary division, ‘us vs them’, and to foresee the potential unity of humankind." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Similarly, the dollar, human rights and the United States of America exist in the shared imagination of billions, and no single individual can threaten their existence. If I alone were to stop believing in the dollar, in human rights, or in the United States, it wouldn’t much matter. These imagined orders are inter-subjective, so in order to change them we must simultaneously change the consciousness of billions of people, which is not easy. A change of such magnitude can be accomplished only with the help of a complex organisation, such as a political party, an ideological movement, or a religious cult. However, in order to establish such complex organisations, it’s necessary to convince many strangers to cooperate with one another. And this will happen only if these strangers believe in some shared myths. It follows that in order to change an existing imagined order, we must first believe in an alternative imagined order.In order to dismantle Peugeot, for example, we need to imagine something more powerful, such as the French legal system. In order to dismantle the French legal system we need to imagine something even more powerful, such as the French state. And if we would like to dismantle that too, we will have to imagine something yet more powerful.There is no way out of the imagined order. When we break down our prison walls and run towards freedom, we are in fact running into the more spacious exercise yard of a bigger prison." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In the ceremony of Mass, the priest takes a piece of bread and a glass of wine and proclaims that the bread is Christ’s flesh, the wine is Christ’s blood, and by eating and drinking them the faithful attain communion with Christ. What could be more real than actually tasting Christ in your mouth? Traditionally, the priest made these bold proclamations in Latin, the ancient language of religion, law, and the secrets of life. In front of the amazed eyes of the assembled peasants the priest held high a piece of bread and exclaimed “Hoc est corpus!”—“This is the body!”—and the bread supposedly became the flesh of Christ. In the minds of the illiterate peasants, who did not speak Latin, “Hoc est corpus!” got garbled into “Hocus-pocus!” Thus was born the powerful spell that can transform a frog into a prince and a pumpkin into a carriage.6" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“most schools also focus too much on providing students with a set of predetermined skills, such as solving differential equations, writing computer code in C++, identifying chemicals in a test tube, or conversing in Chinese. Yet since we have no idea what the world and the job market will look like in 2050, we don’t really know what particular skills people will need. We might invest a lot of effort teaching kids how to write in C++ or speak Chinese, only to discover that by 2050 AI can code software far better than humans, and a new Google Translate app will enable you to conduct a conversation in almost flawless Mandarin, Cantonese, or Hakka, even though you only know how to say “Ni hao." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Organisms are Algorithms How can we be sure that animals such as pigs actually have a subjective world of needs, sensations and emotions? Aren’t we guilty of humanising animals, i.e. ascribing human qualities to non-human entities, like children believing that dolls feel love and anger? In fact, attributing emotions to pigs doesn’t humanise them. It ‘mammalises’ them. For emotions are not a uniquely human quality – they are common to all mammals (as well as to all birds and probably to some reptiles and even fish). All mammals evolved emotional abilities and needs, and from the fact that pigs are mammals we can safely deduce that they have emotions.16 In recent decades life scientists have demonstrated that emotions are not some mysterious spiritual phenomenon that is useful just for writing poetry and composing symphonies. Rather, emotions are biochemical algorithms that are vital for the survival and reproduction of all mammals. What does this mean? Well, let’s begin by explaining what an algorithm is. This is of great importance not only because this key concept will reappear in many of the following chapters, but also because the twenty-first century will be dominated by algorithms. ‘Algorithm’ is arguably the single most important concept in our world. If we want to understand our life and our future, we should make every effort to understand what an algorithm is, and how algorithms are connected with emotions. An algorithm is a methodical set of steps that can be used to make calculations, resolve problems and reach decisions. An algorithm isn’t a particular calculation, but the method followed when making the calculation." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Radical Islam is in a far worse position than socialism. It has not yet come to terms even with the Industrial Revolution" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“People who believe in the hi-tech Ark should not be put in charge of the global ecology, for the same reason that people who believe in a heavenly afterlife should not be given nuclear weapons." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The experiment changed Sally’s life. In the following days she realised she has been through a ‘near-spiritual experience…what defined the experience was not feeling smarter or learning faster: the thing that made the earth drop out from under my feet was that for the first time in my life, everything in my head finally shut up…My brain without self-doubt was a revelation. There was suddenly this incredible silence in my head…I hope you can sympathise with me when I tell you that the thing I wanted most acutely for the weeks following my experience was to go back and strap on those electrodes. I also started to have a lot of questions. Who was I apart from the angry bitter gnomes that populate my mind and drive me to failure because I’m too scared to try? And where did those voices come from?’7 Some of those voices repeat society’s prejudices, some echo our personal history, and some articulate our genetic legacy. All of them together, says Sally, create an invisible story that shapes our conscious decisions in ways we seldom grasp. What would happen if we could rewrite our inner monologues, or even silence them completely on occasion? 8" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Modernity, in contrast, is based on the firm belief that economic growth is not only possible, but absolutely essential... Modernity has turned 'more stuff' into a panacea applicable to almost all public and private problems, from religious fundamentalism through Third World authoritarianism down to a failed marriage... Economic growth has thus become the crucial juncture where almost all modern religions, ideologies and movements meet." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The Scientific Revolution proposed a very different formula for knowledge: Knowledge = Empirical Data × Mathematics. If we want to know the answer to some question, we need to gather relevant empirical data, and then use mathematical tools to analyse the data. For" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Ordinary humans will find it very difficult to resist this process. At present, people are happy to give away their most valuable asset—their personal data—in exchange for free email services and funny cat videos. It’s a bit like African and Native American tribes who unwittingly sold entire countries to European imperialists in exchange for colorful beads and cheap trinkets. If, later on, ordinary people decide to try to block the flow of data, they might find it increasingly difficult, especially as they might come to rely on the network for all their decisions, and even for their healthcare and physical survival." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“However, just as the gap between religion and science is narrower than we commonly think, so the gap between religion and spirituality is much wider. Religion is a deal, whereas spirituality is a journey." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“scientific research can flourish only in alliance with some religion or ideology. The ideology justifies the costs of the research. In exchange, the ideology influences the scientific agenda and determines what to do with the discoveries." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Previous generations thought about peace as the temporary absence of war. Today we think about peace as the implausibility of war." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“As far as we can tell, from a purely scientific viewpoint, human life has absolutely no meaning. Humans are the outcome of blind evolutionary processes that operate without goal or purpose. Our actions are not part of some divine cosmic plan, and if planet Earth were to blow up tomorrow morning, the universe would probably keep going about its business as usual. As far as we can tell at this point, human subjectivity would not be missed. Hence any meaning that people ascribe to their lives is just a delusion. The other-worldly meanings medieval people found in their lives were no more deluded than the modern humanist, nationalist and capitalist meanings modern people find. The scientist who says her life is meaningful because she increases the store of human knowledge, the soldier who declares that his life is meaningful because he fights to defend his homeland, and the entrepreneur who finds meaning in building a new company are no less delusional than their medieval counterparts who found meaning in reading scriptures, going on a crusade or building a new cathedral.So perhaps happiness is synchronising one’s personal delusions of meaning with the prevailing collective delusions. As long as my personal narrative is in line with the narratives of the people around me, I can convince myself that my life is meaningful, and find happiness in that conviction.This is quite a depressing conclusion. Does happiness really depend on self-delusion?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Most people who voted for Trump and Brexit didn’t reject the liberal package in its entirety –they lost faith mainly in its globalising part. They still believe in democracy, free markets, human rights and social responsibility, but they think these fine ideas can stop at the border." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Some religions, such as Christianity and Nazism, have killed millions out of burning hatred. Capitalism has killed millions out of cold indifference coupled with greed." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In Homers  scheint Thetis jedenfalls keine Einwände gegen die Beziehung ihres Sohnes Achilles zu Patrokles gehabt zu haben. Und Königin Olympias von Makedonien (eine der mächtigsten Frauen der Antike, die angeblich ihren Mann ermorden ließ) hatte offenbar nichts dagegen, als ihr Sohn Alexander der Große seinen Geliebten Hephaestion zum Essen nach Hause brachte." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“From a historical perspective, the spiritual journey is always tragic, for it is a lonely path fit for individuals rather than for entire societies. Human cooperation requires firm answers rather than just questions, and those who foam against stultified religious structures end up forging new structures in their place." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Religions that lose touch with the technological realities of the day lose their ability even to understand the questions being asked." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Well, suppose you observe a pride of lions take down and devour a giraffe. You wait patiently until they’re done. But it’s still not your turn because first the hyenas and jackals – and you don’t dare interfere with them – scavenge the leftovers. Only then would you and your band dare approach the carcass, look cautiously left and right – and dig into the edible tissue that remained." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“For the first time in history, more people die today from eating too much than from eating too little; more people die from old age than from infectious diseases; and more people commit suicide than are killed by soldiers, terrorists and criminals combined. In the early twenty-first century, the average human is far more likely to die from bingeing at McDonald’s than from drought, Ebola or an al-Qaeda attack." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Consumerism has worked very hard, with the help of popular psychology (‘Just do it!’) to convince people that indulgence is good for you, whereas frugality is self-oppression. It" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The feminine genes that made it to the next generation belonged to women who were submissive caretakers. Women who spent to much time fighting for power did not leave any of those powerful genes for future generations." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“People feel bound by democratic elections only when they share a basic bond with most other voters. If the experience of other voters is alien to me, and if I believe they don't understand my feelings and don't care about my vital interests, then even if I am outvoted by a hundred to one I have absolutely no reason to accept the verdict. Democratic elections usually work only within populations that have some prior common bond, such as shared religious beliefs or national myths. They are a method to settle disagreements among people who already agree on the basics." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Of all human collective activities, the one most difficult to organise is violence." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Every religion, ideology and creed has its shadow, and no matter which creed you follow you should acknowledge your shadow and avoid the naïve reassurance that ‘it cannot happen to us’. Secular science has at least one big advantage over most traditional religions, namely that it is not terrified of its shadow, and it is in principle willing to admit its mistakes and blind spots. If you believe in an absolute truth revealed by a transcendent power, you cannot allow yourself to admit any error – for that would nullify your whole story. But if you believe in a quest for truth by fallible humans, admitting blunders is an inherent part of the game." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I never react to events in the outside world; I always react to the sensations in my own body. (...) Even when we think we react to what another person has done, to President Trump's latest tweet, or to a distant childhood memory, the truth is we always react to our immediate bodily sensations. If we are outraged that somebody insulted our nation or our god, what makes the insult unbearable is the burning sensations in the pit of our stomach and the band of pain that grips our heart. Our nation feels nothing, but our body really hurts." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In fact, in the first recorded encounter between Sapiens and Neanderthals, the Neanderthals won." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Humans should always retain the freedom to doubt, to check again, to hear a second opinion, to try a different path." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Our language evolved as a way of gossiping. According to this theory Homo sapiens is primarily a social animal. Social cooperation is our key for survival and reproduction. It is not enough for individual men and women to know the whereabouts of lions and bison. It’s much more important for them to know who in their band hates whom, who is sleeping with whom, who is honest, and who is a cheat." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In ancient agricultural societies, most religions revolved not around metaphysical questions and the afterlife, but around the very mundane issue of increasing agricultural output. Thus" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Behind this monstrous shield, liberal democracy and the free market managed to hold out in their last bastions, and Westerners could enjoy sex, drugs and rock and roll, as well as washing machines, refrigerators and televisions. Without nukes, there would have been no Woodstock, no Beatles and no overflowing supermarkets. But in the mid-1970s it seemed that nuclear weapons notwithstanding, the future belonged to socialism." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“We are suddenly showing unprecedented interest in the fate of so-called lower life forms, perhaps because we are about to become one. If and when computer programs attain superhuman intelligence and unprecedented power, should we begin valuing these programs more than we value humans? Would it be okay, for example, for an artificial intelligence to exploit humans and even kill them to further its own needs and desires? If it should never be allowed to do that, despite its superior intelligence" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Ironically, the better we map this process, the harder it becomes to explain conscious feelings. The better we understand the brain, the more redundant the mind seems. If the entire system works by electric signals passing from here to there, why the hell do we also need to feel fear?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In 1939 war was probably a counterproductive move for the Axis powers – yet it did not save the world. One of the astounding things about the Second World War is that following the war the defeated powers prospered as never before. Twenty years after the complete annihilation of their armies and the utter collapse of their empires, Germans, Italians and Japanese were enjoying unprecedented levels of affluence. Why, then, did they go to war in the first place? Why did they inflict unnecessary death and destruction on countless millions? It was all just a stupid miscalculation. In the 1930s Japanese generals, admirals, economists and journalists concurred that without control of Korea, Manchuria and the Chinese coast, Japan was doomed to economic stagnation.8 They were all wrong. In fact, the famed Japanese economic miracle began only after Japan lost all its mainland conquests." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Suffering is not an objective condition in the outside world. It is a mental reaction generated by my own mind." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“A typical forager 30,000 years ago had access to only one type of sweet food – ripe fruit. If a Stone Age woman came across a tree groaning with figs, the most sensible thing to do was to eat as many of them as she could on the spot, before the local baboon band picked the tree bare. The instinct to gorge on high-calorie food was hard-wired into our genes. Today we may be living in high-rise apartments with over-stuffed refrigerators, but our DNA still thinks we are in the savannah. That’s what makes some of us spoon down an entire tub of Ben & Jerry’s when we find one in the freezer and wash it down with a jumbo Coke." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“When the Nazis overran France in the spring of 1940, much of its Jewish population tried to escape the country. In order to cross the border south, they needed visas to Spain and Portugal, and tens of thousands of Jews, along with many other refugees, besieged the Portuguese consulate in Bordeaux in a desperate attempt to get the life-saving piece of paper. The Portuguese government forbade its consuls in France to issue visas without prior approval from the Foreign Ministry, but the consul in Bordeaux, Aristides de Sousa Mendes, decided to disregard the order, throwing to the wind a thirty-year diplomatic career. As Nazi tanks were closing in on Bordeaux, Sousa Mendes and his team worked around the clock for ten days and nights, barely stopping to sleep, just issuing visas and stamping pieces of paper. Sousa Mendes issued thousands of visas before collapsing from exhaustion.The Portuguese government – which had little desire to accept any of these refugees – sent agents to escort the disobedient consul back home, and fired him from the foreign office. Yet officials who cared little for the plight of human beings nevertheless had deep respect for documents, and the visas Sousa Mendes issued against orders were respected by French, Spanish and Portuguese bureaucrats alike, spiriting up to 30,000 people out of the Nazi death trap. Sousa Mendes, armed with little more than a rubber stamp, was responsible for the largest rescue operation by a single individual during the Holocaust." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Individual humans know embarrassingly little about the world, and as history progressed, they came to know less and less. A hunter-gatherer in the Stone Age knew how to make her own clothes, how to start a fire, how to hunt rabbits and how to escape lions. We think we know far more today, but as individuals, we actually know far less. We rely on the expertise of others for almost all our needs. In one humbling experiment, people were asked to evaluate how well they understood the workings of an ordinary zip. Most people confidently replied that they understood them very well – after all, they use zips all the time. They were then asked to describe in as much detail as possible all the steps involved in the zip’s operation. Most had no idea.2 This is what Steven Sloman and Philip Fernbach have termed ‘the knowledge illusion’. We think we know a lot, even though individually we know very little, because we treat knowledge in the minds of others as if it were our own." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“A person who does not crave cannot suffer." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“How do you live in an age of bewilderment, when the old stories have collapsed and no new story has yet emerged to replace them?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It is an iron rule of history that what looks inevitable in hindsight was far from obvious at the time. Today is no different. Are we out of the global economic crisis, or is the worst still to come? Will China continue growing until it becomes the leading superpower? Will the United States lose its hegemony? Is the upsurge of monotheistic fundamentalism the wave of the future or a local whirlpool of little long-term significance? Are we heading towards ecological disaster or technological paradise? There are good arguments to be made for all of these outcomes, but no way of knowing for sure. In a few decades, people will look back and think that the answers to all of these questions were obvious. It" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Next time a mosquito buzzes in your ear, accuse her of unnatural behaviour. If she were well behaved and content with what God gave her, she’d use her wings only as solar panels. The" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Don’t believe tree-huggers who claim that our ancestors lived in harmony with nature. Long before the Industrial Revolution, Homo sapiens held the record among all organisms for driving the most plant and animal species to their extinctions. We have the dubious distinction of being the deadliest species in the annals of biology. Perhaps if more people were aware of the First Wave and Second Wave extinctions, they’d be less nonchalant about the Third Wave they are part of. If we knew how many species we’ve already eradicated, we might be more motivated to protect those that still survive" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Ours is the first time in history that the world is dominated by a peace-loving elite – politicians, business people, intellectuals and artists who genuinely see war as both evil and avoidable." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“We assume that a large brain, the use of tools, superior learning abilities and complex social structures are huge advantages. It seems self-evident that these have made humankind the most powerful animal on earth. But humans enjoyed all of these advantages for a full 2 million years during which they remained weak and marginal creatures. Thus humans who lived a million years ago, despite their big brains and sharp stone tools, dwelt in constant fear of predators, rarely hunted large game, and subsisted mainly by gathering plants, scooping up insects, stalking small animals, and eating the carrion left behind by other more powerful carnivores." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Perhaps the best example for the continuing power and importance of traditional religions in the modern world comes from Japan. In 1853 an American fleet forced Japan to open itself to the modern world. In response, the Japanese state embarked on a rapid and extremely successful process of modernisation. Within a few decades, it became a powerful bureaucratic state relying on science, capitalism and the latest military technology to defeat China and Russia, occupy Taiwan and Korea, and ultimately sink the American fleet at Pearl Harbor and destroy the European empires in the Far East. Yet Japan did not copy blindly the Western blueprint. It was fiercely determined to protect its unique identity, and to ensure that modern Japanese will be loyal to Japan rather than to science, to modernity, or to some nebulous global community.To that end, Japan upheld the native religion of Shinto as the cornerstone of Japanese identity. In truth, the Japanese state reinvented Shinto. Traditional Shinto was a hodge-podge of animist beliefs in various deities, spirits and ghosts, and every village and temple had its own favourite spirits and local customs. In the late nineteenth century and early twentieth century, the Japanese state created an official version of Shinto, while discouraging many local traditions. This ‘State Shinto’ was fused with very modern ideas of nationality and race, which the Japanese elite picked from the European imperialists. Any element in Buddhism, Confucianism and the samurai feudal ethos that could be helpful in cementing loyalty to the state was added to the mix. To top it all, State Shinto enshrined as its supreme principle the worship of the Japanese emperor, who was considered a direct descendant of the sun goddess Amaterasu, and himself no less than a living god." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“We aren't born with a ready-made conscience. As we pass through life, we hurt people and people hurt us, we act compassionately and others show compassion to us. if we pay attention, our moral sensitivity sharpens and these experiences become a source of valuable ethical knowledge about what is good, what is right and who I really am." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“According to the Buddha, then, life has no meaning, and people don’t need to create any meaning. They just need to realise that there is no meaning, and thus be liberated from the suffering caused by our attachments and our identification with empty phenomena." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Rightly or wrongly, people might reach the same conclusions about Big Data algorithms: they have lots of hitches, but we have no better alternative." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“At present, humankind is far from reaching any consensus on these questions. We are still in the nihilist moment of disillusionment and anger, after people have lost faith in the old stories but before they have embraced a new one. So what next? The first step is to tone down the prophecies of doom and switch from panic mode to bewilderment. Panic is a form of hubris. It comes from the smug feeling that one knows exactly where the world is heading: down. Bewilderment is more humble and therefore more clear-sighted. Do you feel like running down the street crying “The apocalypse is upon us”? Try telling yourself, “No, it’s not that. Truth is, I just don’t understand what’s going on in the world." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Much of ancient mythology is in fact a legal contract in which humans promise everlasting devotion to the gods in exchange for mastery over plants and animals" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Revolutions are usually made by small networks of agitators rather than by the masses. If you want to launch a revolution, don’t ask yourself, ‘How many people support my ideas?’ Instead, ask yourself, ‘How many of my supporters are capable of effective collaboration?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Homo sapiens is a storytelling animal that thinks in stories rather than in numbers or graphs, and believes that the universe itself works like a story, replete with heroes and villains, conflicts and resolutions, climaxes and happy endings. When we look for the meaning of life, we want a story that will explain what reality is all about and what my particular role is in the cosmic drama. This role makes me a part of something bigger than myself, and gives meaning to all my experiences and choices." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Studying history aims to loosen the grip of the past. It enables us to turn our head this way and that, and begin to notice possibilities that our ancestors could not imagine, or didn’t want us to imagine." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“History isn’t a single narrative, but thousands of alternative narratives. Whenever we choose to tell one, we are also choosing to silence others." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“We want the ability to re-engineer our bodies and minds in order, above all, to escape old age, death and misery, but once we have it, who knows what else we might do with such ability? So we may well think of the new human agenda as consisting really of only one project (with many branches): attaining divinity. If this sounds unscientific or downright eccentric, it is because people often misunderstand the meaning of divinity. Divinity isn’t a vague metaphysical quality. And it isn’t the same as omnipotence. When speaking of upgrading humans into gods, think more in terms of Greek gods or Hindu devas rather than the omnipotent biblical sky father. Our descendants would still have their foibles, kinks and limitations, just as Zeus and Indra had theirs. But they could love, hate, create and destroy on a much grander scale than us. Throughout history most gods were believed to enjoy not omnipotence but rather specific super-abilities such as the ability to design and create living beings; to transform their own bodies; to control the environment and the weather; to read minds and to communicate at a distance; to travel at very high speeds; and of course to escape death and live indefinitely. Humans are in the business of acquiring all these abilities, and then some." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If we accept a mere tenth of what animal-rights activists are claiming, then modern industrial agriculture might well be the greatest crime in history. When" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Hunter-gatherers spent their time in more stimulating and varied ways, and were less in danger of starvation and disease. The Agricultural Revolution certainly enlarged the sum total of food at the disposal of humankind, but the extra food did not translate into a better diet or more leisure. Rather, it translated into population explosions and pampered elites. The average farmer worked harder than the average forager, and got a worse diet in return. The Agricultural Revolution was history’s biggest fraud." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Sapiens by contrast is more like a banana republic dictator. Having so recently been one of the underdogs of the savannah, we are full of fears and anxieties over our position, which makes us doubly cruel and dangerous. Many historical calamities, from deadly wars to ecological catastrophes, have resulted from this over-hasty jump." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Total annihilation has a way of sharpening people's minds." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Other animals at the top of the pyramid, such as lions and sharks, evolved into that position very gradually, over millions of years. This enabled the ecosystem to develop checks and balances that prevent lions and sharks from wreaking too much havoc. As lions became deadlier, so gazelles evolved to run faster, hyenas to cooperate better, and rhinoceroses to be more bad-tempered. In contrast, humankind ascended to the top so quickly that the ecosystem was not given time to adjust." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“A Christian may be a capitalist as easily as a socialist, and even though a few things Jesus said smack of downright communism, during the Cold War good American capitalists went on reading the Sermon on the Mount without taking much notice." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Though historians occasionally try their hand at prophecy (without notable success), the study of history aims above all to make us aware of possibilities we don’t normally consider. Historians study the past not in order to repeat it, but in order to be liberated from it." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Ever since the Cognitive Revolution, Sapiens have thus been living in a dual reality. On the one hand, the objective reality of rivers, trees and lions; and on the other hand, the imagined reality of gods, nations and corporations. As time went by, the imagined reality became ever more powerful, so that today the very survival of rivers, trees and lions depends on the grace of imagined entities such as the United States and Google. Bypassing" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Perhaps I am the only being in the entire universe who feels anything, and all other humans and animals are just mindless robots? Perhaps I am dreaming, and everyone I meet is just a character in my dream? Perhaps I am trapped inside a virtual world, and all the beings I see are merely simulations?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Most history books focus on the ideas of great thinkers, the bravery of warriors, the charity of saints and the creativity of artists. They have much to tell about the weaving and unravelling of social structures, about the rise and fall of empires, about the discovery and spread of technologies. Yet they say nothing about how all this influenced the happiness and suffering of individuals. This is the biggest lacuna in our understanding of history. We had better start filling it." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Dataism adopts a strictly functional approach to humanity, appraising the value of human experiences according to their function in data-processing mechanisms. If we develop an algorithm that fulfils the same function better, human experiences will lose their value. Thus if we can replace not just taxi drivers and doctors but also lawyers, poets and musicians with superior computer programs, why should we care if these programs have no consciousness and no subjective experiences? If some humanist starts adulating the sacredness of human experience, Dataists would dismiss such sentimental humbug. ‘The experience you praise is just an outdated biochemical algorithm. In the African savannah 70,000 years ago, that algorithm was state-of-the-art. Even in the twentieth century it was vital for the army and for the economy. But soon we will have much better algorithms." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“When you inflict suffering on yourself in the name of some story, it give you a choice: 'Either the story is true, or I am a gullible fool.' When you inflict suffering on others, you are also given a choice: 'Either the story is true, or I am a cruel villain.' And just as we don't want to admit we are fools, we also don't want to admit we are villains, so we prefer to believe that the story is true." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“the historical record makes Homo sapiens look like an ecological serial killer. All" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Ordinary people may not understand artificial intelligence and biotechnology, but they can sense that the future is passing them by." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“During the Agricultural Revolution humankind silenced animals and plants, and turned the animist grand opera into a dialogue between man and gods. During the Scientific Revolution humankind silenced the gods too." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In 1775 Asia accounted for 80 per cent of the world economy. The combined economies of India and China alone represented two-thirds of global production. In comparison, Europe was an economic dwarf.3" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“By contrast, AlphaZero had not been taught any chess strategies by its human creators—not even standard openings. Rather, it used the latest machine-learning principles to teach itself chess by playing against itself. Nevertheless, out of 100 games that the novice AlphaZero played against Stockfish 8, AlphaZero won 28 and tied 72—it didn’t lose once. Since AlphaZero had learned nothing from any human, many of its winning moves and strategies seemed unconventional to the human eye." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Famine, plague and war will probably continue to claim millions of victims in the coming decades. Yet they are no longer unavoidable tragedies beyond the understanding and control of a helpless humanity." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“This ability to speak about fictions is the most unique feature of Sapiens language." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Modernity is a surprisingly simple deal. The entire contract can be summarised in a single phrase: humans agree to give up meaning in exchange for power." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Democracy is based on Abraham Lincoln's principal than you 'can fool all the people some of the time, and some of the people all the time, but you cannot fool all the people all the time. If a government is corrupt and fails to improve people's lives, enough citizens will eventually realise this and replace the government. But government control of the media undermines Lincoln's logic, because it prevents citizens from realising the truth. Trough its monopoly over the media, the ruling oligarchy can repeatedly blame all its failures on others, and divert attention to external threats - either real or imaginary.When you live under such an oligarchy, there is always some crisis or other that takes priority over boring stuff such as healthcare and pollution. If the nation is facing external invasion or diabolical subversion, who has time to worry about overcrowded hospitals and polluted rivers? By manufacturing a never-ending stream of crises, a corrupt oligarchy can prolong its rule indefinitely." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Homo sapiens does its best to forget the fact, but it is an animal. And it is doubly important to remember our origins at a time when we seek to turn ourselves into gods." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Unlike lying, an imagined reality is something that everyone believes in, and as long as this communal belief persists, the imagined reality exerts force in the world. The sculptor from the Stadel Cave may sincerely have believed in the existence of the lion-man guardian spirit. Some sorcerers are charlatans, but most sincerely believe in the existence of gods and demons. Most millionaires sincerely believe in the existence of money and limited liability companies. Most human-rights activists sincerely believe in the existence of human rights. No one was lying when, in 2011, the UN demanded that the Libyan government respect the human rights of its citizens, even though the UN, Libya and human rights are all figments of our fertile imaginations." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“would Jesus have died for the sins of the Denisovans," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“History is often shaped by small groups of forward-looking innovators rather than by the backward-looking masses. Ten" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In addition, seculars do not sanctify any group, any person or any book as if it and it alone has sole custody of the truth. Instead, secular people sanctify the truth wherever it may reveal itself – in ancient fossilised bones, in images of far-off galaxies, in tables of statistical data, or in the writings of various human traditions. This commitment to the truth underlies modern science, which has enabled humankind to split the atom, decipher the genome, track the evolution of life, and understand the history of humanity itself" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“An empire that cannot sustain a blow and remain standing is not really an empire. Yet" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Mucho antes de la revolución industrial, Homo sapiens ostentaba el récord entre todos los organismos por provocar la extinción del mayor número de especies de plantas y animales. Poseemos la dudosa distinción de ser la especie más mortífera en los anales de la biología." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“All stories are incomplete. Yet in order to construct a viable identity for myself and give meaning to my life, I don’t really need a complete story devoid of blind spots and internal contradictions. To give meaning to my life, a story needs to satisfy just two conditions: first, it must give me some role to play. A New Guinean tribesman is unlikely to believe in Zionism or in Serbian nationalism, because these stories don’t care at all about New Guinea and its people. Like movie stars, humans like only those scripts that reserve an important role for them.Second, whereas a good story need not extend to infinity, it must extend beyond my horizons. The story provides me with an identity and gives meaning to my life by embedding me within something bigger than myself. But there is always a danger that I might start wondering what gives meaning to that ‘something bigger’. If the meaning of my life is to help the proletariat or the Polish nation, what exactly gives meaning to the proletariat or to the Polish nation? There is a story of a man who claimed that the world is kept in place by resting on the back of a huge elephant. When asked what the elephant stands on, he replied “that it stands on the back of a large turtle. And the turtle? On the back of an even bigger turtle. And that bigger turtle? The man snapped and said: ‘Don’t bother about it. From there onwards it’s turtles all the way down." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“There was nothing special about humans. Nobody, least of all humans themselves, had any inkling that their descendants would one day walk on the moon, split the atom, fathom the genetic code and write history books." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Listen, Google,’ I will say, ‘both John and Paul are courting me. I like both of them, but in a different way, and it’s so hard to make up my mind. Given everything you know, what do you advise me to do?’And Google will answer: ‘Well, I know you from the day you were born. I have read all your emails, recorded all your phone calls, and know your favourite films, your DNA and the entire history of your heart. I have exact data about each date you went on, and if you want, I can show you second-by-second graphs of your heart rate, blood pressure and sugar levels whenever you went on a date with John or Paul. If necessary, I can even provide you with accurate mathematical ranking of every sexual encounter you had with either of them. And naturally enough, I know them as well as I know you. Based on all this information, on my superb algorithms, and on decades’ worth of statistics about millions of relationships – I advise you to go with John, with an 87 per cent probability of being more satisfied with him in the long run.Indeed, I know you so well that I also know you don’t like this answer. Paul is much more handsome than John, and because you give external appearances too much weight, you secretly wanted me to say “Paul”. Looks matter, of course; but not as much as you think. Your biochemical algorithms – which evolved tens of thousands of years ago in the African savannah – give looks a weight of 35 per cent in their overall rating of potential mates. My algorithms – which are based on the most up-to-date studies and statistics – say that looks have only a 14 per cent impact on the long-term success of romantic relationships. So, even though I took Paul’s looks into account, I still tell you that you would be better off with John." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“How, then, do terrorists manage to dominate the headlines and change the political situation throughout the world? By provoking their enemies to overreact. In essence, terrorism is a show. Terrorists stage a terrifying spectacle of violence that captures our imagination and makes us feel as if we are sliding back into medieval chaos. Consequently states often feel obliged to react to the theatre of terrorism with a show of security, orchestrating immense displays of force, such as the persecution of entire populations or the invasion of foreign countries. In most cases, this overreaction to terrorism poses a far greater threat to our security than the terrorists themselves." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Just consider the next thought that pops up in your mind. Where did it come from? Did you freely choose to think it, and only then did you think it? Certainly not. The process of self-exploration begins with simple things, and becomes progressively harder. At first, we realise that we do not control the world outside us. I don’t decide when it rains. Then we realise that we do not control what’s happening inside our own body. I don’t control my blood pressure. Next, we understand that we don’t even govern our brain. I don’t tell the neurons when to fire. Ultimately we should realise that we do not control our desires, or even our reactions to these desires.Realising this can help us become less obsessive about our opinions, about our feelings, and about our desires. We don’t have free will, but we can be a bit more free from the tyranny of our will. Humans usually give so much importance to their desires that they try to control and shape the entire world according to these desires. In pursuit of their cravings, humans fly to the moon, wage world wars, and destabilise the entire ecosystem. If we understand that our desires are not the magical manifestations of free choice, but rather are the product of biochemical processes (influenced by cultural factors that are also beyond our control), we might be less preoccupied with them. It is better to understand ourselves, our minds and our desires rather than try to realise whatever fantasy pops up in our heads." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“the network of stories they tell one another. Meaning is created when many people weave together a common network of stories. Why does a particular action – such as getting married in church, fasting on Ramadan or voting on election day – seem meaningful to me? Because my parents also think it is meaningful, as do my brothers, my neighbours, people in nearby cities and even the residents of far-off countries. And why do all these people think it is meaningful? Because their friends and neighbours also share the same view. People constantly reinforce each other’s beliefs in a self-perpetuating loop. Each round of mutual confirmation tightens the web of meaning further, until you have little choice but to believe what everyone else believes." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Thomas Jefferson no hizo al Estado responsable de la felicidad de sus ciudadanos. En cambio, solo buscó limitar el poder del Estado. La idea era reservar para los individuos una esfera privada de elección, libre de la supervisión estatal." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“People who do not believe in the same god or obey the same king are more than willing to use the same money." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Priests discovered this principle thousands of years ago. It underlies numerous religious ceremonies and commandments. If you want to make people believe in imaginary entities such as gods and nations, you should make them sacrifice something valuable. The more painful the sacrifice, the more convinced people are of the existence of the imaginary recipient. A poor peasant sacrificing a priceless bull to Jupiter will become convinced that Jupiter really exists, otherwise how can he excuse his stupidity? The peasant will sacrifice another bull, and another, and another, just so he won’t have to admit that all the previous bulls were wasted. For exactly the same reason, if I have sacrificed a child to the glory of the Italian nation, or my legs to the communist revolution, it’s enough to turn me into a zealous Italian nationalist or an enthusiastic communist. For if Italian national myths or communist propaganda are a lie, then I will be forced to admit that my child’s death or my own paralysis have been completely pointless. Few people have the stomach to admit such a thing." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“When everything is convertible, and when trust depends on anonymous coins and cowry shells, it corrodes local traditions, intimate relations and human values, replacing them with the cold laws of supply and demand." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“los abogados modernos son, en realidad, poderosos hechiceros. La principal diferencia entre ellos y los chamanes tribales es que los abogados modernos cuentan relatos mucho más extraños. La" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“si sumamos todas las víctimas de todas estas persecuciones, resulta que en esos tres siglos los politeístas romanos mataron a no más que unos pocos miles de cristianos.1 Por el contrario, a lo largo de los siguientes 1.500 años, los cristianos masacraron a millones de correligionarios para defender interpretaciones ligeramente distintas de la religión del amor y la compasión." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“தனிநபர் நிலையில் ஒப்புநோக்கும்போது, பண்டைய வேட்டையாடிகள்தான் வரலாற்றிலேயே மிகுந்த அறிவு படைத்தவர்களாகவும் அதிகத் திறமையானவர்களாகவும் இருந்தனர்" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“archaeological evidence consists mainly of fossilised bones and stone tools. Artefacts made of more perishable materials – such as wood, bamboo or leather – survive only under unique conditions. The common impression that pre-agricultural humans lived in an age of stone is a misconception based on this archaeological bias. The Stone Age should more accurately be called the Wood Age, because most of the tools used by ancient hunter-gatherers were made of wood." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The single most remarkable and defining moment of the past 500 years came at 05:29:45 on 16 July 1945. At that precise second, American scientists detonated the first atomic bomb at Alamogordo, New Mexico. From that point onward, humankind had the capability not only to change the course of history, but to end it." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“they are nothing but the perpetuation of chance events supported by myths." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“When a thousand people believe some made-up story for one month, that’s fake news. When a billion people believe it for a thousand years, that’s a religion, and we are admonished not to call it “fake news” in order not to hurt the feelings of the faithful (or incur their wrath). Note, however, that I am not denying the effectiveness or potential benevolence of religion. Just the opposite. For better or worse, fiction is among the most effective tools in humanity’s tool kit. By bringing people together, religious creeds make large-scale human cooperation possible. They inspire people to build hospitals, schools, and bridges in addition to armies and prisons. Adam and Eve never existed, but Chartres Cathedral is still beautiful. Much of the Bible may be fictional, but it can still bring joy to billions and can still encourage humans to be compassionate, courageous, and creative—just like other great works of fiction, such as Don Quixote, War and Peace, and the Harry Potter books." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“governments could subsidize universal basic services rather than income." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Our once green and blue planet is becoming a concrete and plastic shopping centre." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Eagles, for example, identify thermal columns rising from the ground, spread their giant wings and allow the hot air to lift them upwards. Yet eagles cannot control the location of the columns, and their maximum carrying capacity is strictly proportional to their wingspan." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Chad could put a solar panel on every roof in the country and yet become a barren desert due to the irresponsible environmental policies of distant foreigners. Even powerful nations such as China and Japan are not ecologically sovereign. To protect Shanghai, Hong Kong, and Tokyo from destructive floods and typhoons, the Chinese and Japanese will have to persuade the Russian and American governments to abandon their “business as usual” approach." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“[H]umankind ascended to the top so quickly that the ecosystem was not given time to adjust. Moreover, humans themselves failed to adjust." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The dog was the first animal domesticated by Homo sapiens, and this occurred before the Agricultural Revolution." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“As human fictions are translated into genetic and electronic codes, the intersubjective reality will swallow up the objective reality and biology will merge with history. In the twenty-first century fiction might thereby become the most potent force on earth, surpassing even wayward asteroids and natural selection." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“with the rise of AI, robots, and 3-D printers, cheap unskilled labor will become far less important" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The food surpluses produced by peasants, coupled with new transportation technology, eventually enabled more and more people to cram together first into large villages, then into towns, and finally into cities, all of them joined together by new kingdoms and commercial networks. Yet in order to take advantage of these new opportunities, food surpluses and improved transportation were not enough. The mere fact that one can feed a thousand people in the same town or a million people in the same kingdom does not guarantee that they can agree how to divide the land and water, how to settle disputes and conflicts, and how to act in times of drought or war. And if no agreement can be reached, strife spreads, even if the storehouses are bulging. It was not food shortages that caused most of history’s wars and revolutions. The" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It is debatable whether it is better to provide people with universal basic income (the capitalist paradise) or universal basic services (the communist paradise). Both options have advantages and drawbacks. But no matter which paradise you choose, the real problem is in defining what “universal” and “basic” actually mean." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“As algorithms come to know us so well, authoritarian governments could gain absolute control over their citizens, even more so than in Nazi Germany, and resistance to such regimes might be utterly impossible. Not only will the regime know exactly how you feel, but it could make you feel whatever it wants. The dictator might not be able to provide citizens with healthcare or equality, but he could make them love him and hate his opponents. Democracy in its present form cannot survive the merger of biotech and infotech. Either democracy will successfully reinvent itself in a radically new form or humans will come to live in “digital dictatorships." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“El cristiano cree en el Dios monoteísta, pero también en el Diablo dualista, en santos politeístas y en espíritus animistas." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The more data we have and the better we understand history, the faster history alters its course, and the faster our knowledge becomes outdated." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In themselves human experiences are not superior at all to the experiences of wolves or elephants. One bit of data is as good as another. However, humans can write poems and blogs about their experiences and post them online, thereby enriching the global data-processing system. That makes their bits count. Wolves cannot do this. Hence all the experiences of wolves – as deep and complex as they may be – are worthless. No wonder we are so busy converting our experiences into data. It isn’t a question of trendiness. It is a question of survival. We must prove to ourselves and to the system that we still have value. And value lies not in having experiences, but in turning these experiences into free-flowing data." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Throughout history, religions and ideologies did not sanctify life itself. They always sanctified something above or beyond earthly existence, and were consequently quite tolerant of death. Indeed, some of them have been downright fond of the Grim Reaper. Because Christianity, Islam and Hinduism insisted that the meaning of our existence depended on our fate in the afterlife, they viewed death as a vital and positive part of the world. Humans died because God decreed it, and their moment of death was a sacred metaphysical experience exploding with meaning. When a human was about to breathe his last, this was the time to call priests, rabbis and shamans, to draw out the balance of life, and to embrace one’s true role in the universe. Just try to imagine Christianity, Islam or Hinduism in a world without death – which is also a world without heaven, hell or reincarnation. Modern science and modern culture have an entirely different take on life and death. They don’t think of death as a metaphysical mystery, and they certainly don’t view death as the source of life’s meaning. Rather, for modern people death is a technical problem that we can and should solve. How exactly do humans die? Medieval fairy tales depicted Death as a figure in a hooded black cloak, his hand gripping a large scythe. A man lives his life, worrying about this and that, running here and there, when suddenly the Grim Reaper appears before him, taps him on the shoulder with a bony finger and says, ‘Come!’ And the man implores: ‘No, please! Wait just a year, a month, a day!’ But the hooded figure hisses: ‘No! You must come NOW!’ And this is how we die. In" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Take for example job applications. In the 21st century the decision wherever to hire somebody for a job while increasingly be made by algorithms. We cannot rely on the machines to set the relevant ethical standards, humans will still need to do that, but once we decide on an ethical standard in the job market, that it is wrong to discriminate against blacks or against women for example, we can rely on machines to implement and maintain these standards better than humans. A human manager may know and even agree that is unethical to discriminate against blacks and women but then when a black woman applies for a job the manager subconsciously discriminate against her and decides not to hire her. If we allow a computer to evaluate job applications and program computers to completely ignore race and gender we can be certain that the computer will indeed ignore these factors because computers do not have a subconscious. Of course it won't be easy to write code for evaluating job applications and there is always the danger that the engineers will somehow program their own subconscious biases into the software, yet once we discover such mistakes it would probably be far easier to debug the software than to get rid humans of their racist and misogynist biases." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“During the Agricultural Revolution humankind silenced animals and plants, and turned the animist grand opera into a dialogue between man and gods. During the Scientific Revolution humankind silenced the gods too. The world was now a one-man show. Humankind stood alone on an empty stage, talking to itself, negotiating with no one and acquiring enormous powers without any obligations." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Russia has been following the schoolyard-bully principle: pick on the weakest kid, and don’t beat him up too much, lest the teacher intervene." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In the twenty-first century fiction might thereby become the most potent force on earth, surpassing even wayward asteroids and natural selection." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In this respect, terrorists resemble a fly that tries to destroy a china shop. The fly is so weak that it cannot move even a single teacup. So how does a fly destroy a china shop? It finds a bull, gets inside its ear, and starts buzzing. The bull goes wild with fear and anger, and destroys the china shop. This is what happened after 9/11, as Islamic fundamentalists incited the American bull to destroy the Middle Eastern china shop. Now they flourish in the wreckage. And there is no shortage of short-tempered bulls in the world." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In other words, switching to autonomous vehicles is likely to save the lives of one million people every year. It would therefore be madness to block automation in fields such as transport and healthcare just in order to protect human jobs. After all, what we ultimately ought to protect is humans—not jobs. Displaced drivers and doctors will just have to find something else to do." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“A principios del siglo XXI, el tren del progreso sale de nuevo de la estación…, y es probable que sea el último tren que salga de la estación llamada Homo sapiens. Los que pierdan este tren nunca tendrán una segunda oportunidad. Si queremos conseguir un pasaje para dicho tren, debemos entender la tecnología del siglo XXI, y en particular los poderes de la biotecnología y de los algoritmos informáticos. Estos" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In the months leading up to their expedition, the Apollo 11 astronauts trained in a remote moon-like desert in the western United States. The area is home to several Native American communities, and there is a story – or legend – describing an encounter between the astronauts and one of the locals. One day as they were training, the astronauts came across an old Native American. The man asked them what they were doing there. They replied that they were part of a research expedition that would shortly travel to explore the moon. When the old man heard that, he fell silent for a few moments, and then asked the astronauts if they could do him a favour. ‘What do you want?’ they asked. ‘Well,’ said the old man, ‘the people of my tribe believe that holy spirits live on the moon. I was wondering if you could pass an important message to them from my people.’ ‘What’s the message?’ asked the astronauts. The man uttered something in his tribal language, and then asked the astronauts to repeat it again and again until they had memorised it correctly. ‘What does it mean?’ asked the astronauts. ‘Oh, I cannot tell you. It’s a secret that only our tribe and the moon spirits are allowed to know.’ When they returned to their base, the astronauts searched and searched until they found someone who could speak the tribal language, and asked him to translate the secret message. When they repeated what they had memorised, the translator started to laugh uproariously. When he calmed down, the astronauts asked him what it meant. The man explained that the sentence they had memorised so carefully said, ‘Don’t believe a single word these people are telling you. They have come to steal your lands." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Yet with the rise of AI, robots, and 3-D printers, cheap unskilled labor will become far less important. Instead of manufacturing a shirt in Dhaka and shipping it all the way to the United States, you could buy the shirt’s code online from Amazon and print it in New York. The Zara and Prada stores on Fifth Avenue could be replaced by 3-D printing centers in Brooklyn, and some people might even have a printer at home. Simultaneously, instead of calling customer service in Bangalore to complain about your printer, you could talk with an AI representative in the Google cloud (whose accent and tone of voice would be tailored to your preferences). The newly unemployed workers and call center operators in Dhaka and Bangalore don’t have the education necessary to switch to designing fashionable shirts or writing computer code—so how will they survive?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Science finds it hard to decipher the mysteries of the mind largely because we lack efficient tools. Many people, including many scientists, tend to confuse the mind with the brain, but they are really very different things. The brain is a material network of neurons, synapses, and biochemicals. The mind is a flow of subjective experiences, such as pain, pleasure, anger, and love. Biologists assume that the brain somehow produces the mind and that biochemical reactions in billions of neurons somehow produce experiences such as pain and love. However, so far we have absolutely no explanation for how the mind emerges from the brain." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“all mass identities are based on fictional stories, not on scientific facts or even on economic necessities." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The economic game was rigged by legal restrictions and unofficial glass ceilings. When the peasant brother made his way to the Beijing market with his torn clothes, rough manners and incomprehensible dialect, he would quickly have discovered that in the business world, manners and connections often speak far louder than genes." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Artificial intelligence is now poised to surpass human intelligence." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Consequently, in 1958 the Chinese government was informed that annual grain production was 50 per cent more than it actually was. Believing the reports, the government sold millions of tons of rice to foreign countries in exchange for weapons and heavy machinery, assuming that enough was left to feed the Chinese population. The result was the worst famine in history and the death of tens of millions of Chinese.3 Meanwhile, enthusiastic reports of China’s farming miracle reached audiences throughout the world. Julius Nyerere, the idealistic president of Tanzania, was deeply impressed by the Chinese success. In order to modernise Tanzanian agriculture, Nyerere resolved to establish collective farms on the Chinese model. When peasants objected to the plan, Nyerere sent the army and police to destroy traditional villages and forcibly relocate hundreds of thousands of peasants onto the new collective farms. Government propaganda depicted the farms as miniature paradises, but many of them existed only in government documents. The protocols and reports written in the capital Dar es Salaam said that on such-and-such a date the inhabitants of such-and-such village were relocated to such-and-such farm. In reality, when the villagers reached their destination, they found absolutely nothing there. No houses, no fields, no tools. Officials nevertheless reported great successes to themselves and to President Nyerere. In fact, within less than ten years Tanzania was transformed from Africa’s biggest food exporter into a net food importer that could not feed itself without external assistance. In 1979, 90 per cent of Tanzanian farmers lived on collective farms, but they generated only 5 per cent of the country’s agricultural output.4" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Similar probabilistic models have become central to economics, sociology, psychology, political science and the other social and natural sciences." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Modern bilim ve teknoloji insanalara antik tanrılardan çok daha büyük güç sağlayınca da tanrı bir işlerine yaramaz." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The moment the first hunter-gatherer set foot on an Australian beach was the moment that Homo sapiens climbed to the top rung in the food chain and became the deadliest species ever in the four-billion-year history of life on Earth." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Few gods, nations, or revolutions can sustain themselves without martyrs." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“But at the dawn of the twenty-first century, this is no longer true: Homo sapiens is transcending those limits. It is now beginning to break the laws of natural selection, replacing them with the laws of intelligent design." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What do you do when nobody needs your cheap unskilled laborers and you don’t have the resources to build a good education system and teach them new skills?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If AI and 3-D printers indeed take over from the Bangladeshis and Bangalorians, the revenues that previously flowed to South Asia will now fill the coffers of a few tech giants in California. Instead of economic growth improving conditions all over the world, we might see immense new wealth created in high-tech hubs such as Silicon Valley, while many developing countries collapse." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Yet once biologists concluded that organisms are algorithms, they dismantled the wall between the organic and the inorganic, turned the computer revolution from a purely mechanical affair into a biological cataclysm, and shifted authority from individual humans to networked algorithms." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Not all people get the same chance to cultivate and refine their abilities. Whether or not they have such an opportunity will usually depend on their place within their society's imagined hierachy. Harry Potter is a good example. Removed from his disinguished wizard family and brought up by ignorant muggles, he arrives at Hogwarts without any experience in magic. It takes him seven books to gain a firm command of his powers and knowledge of his unique abilities." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“the twenty-first century religions don’t bring rain, they don’t cure illnesses, they don’t build bombs—but they do get to determine who are “us” and who are “them,” whom we should cure and whom we should bomb." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“monotheists practiced human sacrifice on a much larger scale than most polytheistic cults. Christianity and Islam have killed far more people in the name of God than did the followers of Ba’al or Huitzilopochtli." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“How can we distinguish what is biologically determined from what people merely try to justify through biological myths? A good rule of thumb is ‘Biology enables, Culture forbids.’ Biology is willing to tolerate a very wide spectrum of possibilities. It’s culture that obliges people to realise some possibilities while forbidding others. Biology enables women to have children – some cultures oblige women to realise this possibility. Biology enables men to enjoy sex with one another – some cultures forbid them to realise this possibility. Culture tends to argue that it forbids only that which is unnatural. But from a biological perspective, nothing is unnatural. Whatever is possible is by definition also natural. A truly unnatural behaviour, one that goes against the laws of nature, simply cannot exist, so it would need no prohibition. No culture has ever bothered to forbid men to photosynthesise, women to run faster than the speed of light, or negatively charged electrons to be attracted to each other. In truth, our concepts ‘natural’ and ‘unnatural’ are taken not from biology, but from Christian theology. The theological meaning of ‘natural’ is ‘in accordance with the intentions of the God who created nature’. Christian theologians argued that God created the human body, intending each limb and organ to serve a particular purpose. If we use our limbs and organs for the purpose envisioned by God, then it is a natural activity. To use them differently than God intends is unnatural. But evolution has no purpose. Organs have not evolved with a purpose, and the way they are used is in constant flux. There" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“We can be inspired by anthropologists, zoologists, and astronauts. Anthropologists and zoologists spend years on faraway islands, exposed to a plethora of ailments and dangers. Astronauts devote many years to difficult training regimes, preparing for their hazardous excursions to outer space. If we are willing to make such efforts in order to understand foreign cultures, unknown species, and distant planets, it might be worth working just as hard in order to understand our own minds. And we had better understand our minds before the algorithms make our minds up for us." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“life sciences doubt the existence of soul not just due to lack of evidence, but rather because the very idea of soul contradicts the most fundamental principles of evolution. This" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The result will not be an Orwellian police state. We always prepare ourselves for the previous enemy, even when we face an altogether new menace. Defenders of human individuality stand guard against the tyranny of the collective, without realising that human individuality is now threatened from the opposite direction. The individual will not be crushed by Big Brother; it will disintegrate from within. Today corporations and governments pay homage to my individuality, and promise to provide medicine, education and entertainment customised to my unique needs and wishes. But in order to so, corporations and governments first need to break me up into biochemical subsystems, monitor these subsystems with ubiquitous sensors and decipher their working with powerful algorithms. In the process, the individual will transpire to be nothing but a religious fantasy. Reality will be a mesh of biochemical and electronic algorithms, without clear borders, and without individual hubs." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“For centuries scientists too accepted these humanist guidelines. When physicists wondered whether to get married or not, they too watched sunsets and tried to get in touch with themselves. When chemists contemplated whether to accept a problematic job offer, they too wrote diaries and had heart-to-heart talks with a good friend. When biologists debated whether to wage war or sign a peace treaty, they too voted in democratic elections. When brain scientists wrote books about their startling discoveries, they often put an inspiring Goethe quote on the first page. This was the basis for the modern alliance between science and humanism, which kept the delicate balance between the modern yang and the modern yin – between reason and emotion, between the laboratory and the museum, between the production line and the supermarket." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Altogether the pandemic killed between 50 million and 100 million people in less than a year. The First World War killed 40 million from 1914 to 1918.10" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Russia, Iran, and Saudi Arabia depend on exporting oil and gas. Their economies will collapse if oil and gas suddenly give way to solar and wind." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Many scholars argue that the voyages of Admiral Zheng He of the Chinese Ming dynasty heralded and eclipsed the European voyages of discovery. Between 1405 and 1433, Zheng led seven huge armadas from China to the far reaches of the Indian Ocean. The largest of these comprised almost 300 ships and carried close to 30,000 people.7 They visited Indonesia, Sri Lanka, India, the Persian Gulf, the Red Sea and East Africa. Chinese ships anchored in Jedda, the main harbour of the Hejaz, and in Malindi, on the Kenyan coast. Columbus’ fleet of 1492 – which consisted of three small ships manned by 120 sailors – was like a trio of mosquitoes compared to Zheng He’s drove of dragons.8 Yet there was a crucial difference. Zheng He explored the oceans, and assisted pro-Chinese rulers, but he did not try to conquer or colonise the countries he visited. Moreover, the expeditions of Zheng He were not deeply rooted in Chinese politics and culture. When the ruling faction in Beijing changed during the 1430s, the new overlords abruptly terminated the operation. The great fleet was dismantled, crucial technical and geographical knowledge was lost, and no explorer of such stature and means ever set out again from a Chinese port. Chinese rulers in the coming centuries, like most Chinese rulers in previous centuries, restricted their interests and ambitions to the Middle Kingdom’s immediate environs. The Zheng He expeditions prove that Europe did not enjoy an outstanding technological edge. What made Europeans exceptional was their unparalleled and insatiable ambition to explore and conquer. Although they might have had the ability, the Romans never attempted to conquer India or Scandinavia, the Persians never attempted to conquer Madagascar or Spain, and the Chinese never attempted to conquer Indonesia or Africa. Most Chinese rulers left even nearby Japan to its own devices. There was nothing peculiar about that. The oddity is that early modern Europeans caught a fever that drove them to sail to distant and completely unknown lands full of alien cultures, take one step on to their beaches, and immediately declare, ‘I claim all these territories for my king!" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Archaic humans paid for their large brains in two ways. Firstly, they spent more time in search of food. Secondly, their muscles atrophied. Like a government diverting money from defence to education, humans diverted energy from biceps to neurons. It’s hardly a foregone conclusion that this is a good strategy for survival on the savannah. A chimpanzee can’t win an argument with a Homo sapiens, but the ape can rip the man apart like a rag doll." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Finally, some scientists concede that consciousness is real and may actually have great moral and political value, but that it fulfils no biological function whatsoever. Consciousness is the biologically useless by-product of certain brain processes. Jet engines roar loudly, but the noise doesn’t propel the aeroplane forward. Humans don’t need carbon dioxide, but each and every breath fills the air with more of the stuff. Similarly, consciousness may be a kind of mental pollution produced by the firing of complex neural networks. It doesn’t do anything. It is just there. If this is true, it implies that all the pain and pleasure experienced by billions of creatures for millions of years is just mental pollution. This is certainly a thought worth thinking, even if it isn’t true. But it is quite amazing to realise that as of 2016, this is the best theory of consciousness that contemporary science has to offer us. Maybe" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Today, a single affluent family generally has more timepieces at home than an entire medieval country." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If a government is corrupt and fails to improve people’s lives, enough citizens will eventually realise this and replace the government. But government control of the media undermines Lincoln’s logic, because it prevents citizens from realising the truth. Through its monopoly over the media, the ruling oligarchy can repeatedly blame all its failures on others, and divert attention to external threats – either real or imaginary. When you live under such an oligarchy, there is always some crisis or other that takes priority over boring stuff such as healthcare and pollution. If the nation is facing external invasion or diabolical subversion, who has time to worry about overcrowded hospitals and polluted rivers? By manufacturing a never-ending stream of crises, a corrupt oligarchy can prolong its rule indefinitely.8" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Every other mammal that went to sea – seals, sea cows, dolphins – had to evolve for aeons to develop specialised organs and a hydrodynamic body." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Today Hindu revivalists, pious Muslims, Japanese nationalists and Chinese communists may declare their adherence to very different values and goals, but they have all come to believe that economic growth is the key to realising their disparate goals. Thus in 2014 the devout Hindu Narendra Modi was elected prime minister of India thanks largely to his success in boosting economic growth in his home state of Gujarat, and to the widely held view that only he could reinvigorate the sluggish national economy. Analogous views have kept the Islamist Recep Tayyip Erdoğan in power in Turkey since 2003. The name of his party – the Justice and Development Party – highlights its commitment to economic development, and the Erdoğan government has indeed managed to maintain impressive growth rates for more than a decade. Japan’s prime minister, the nationalist Shinzō Abe, came to office in 2012 pledging to jolt the Japanese economy out of two decades of stagnation. His aggressive and somewhat unusual measures to achieve this have been nicknamed Abenomics. Meanwhile in neighbouring China the Communist Party still pays lip service to traditional Marxist–Leninist ideals, but in practice is guided by Deng Xiaoping’s famous maxims that ‘development is the only hard truth’ and that ‘it doesn’t matter if a cat is black or white, so long as it catches mice’. Which means, in plain language: do whatever it takes to promote economic growth, even if Marx and Lenin wouldn’t have been happy with it. In Singapore, as befits that no-nonsense city-state, they pursue this line of thinking even further, and peg ministerial salaries to the national GDP. When the Singaporean economy grows, government ministers get a raise, as if that is what their jobs are all about.2" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“what doesn’t kill us only makes us stronger." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The hand of the market is blind as well as invisible, and left to its own devices it may fail to do anything at all about the threat of global warming or the dangerous potential of artificial intelligence." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“6. The Catholic alpha male abstains from sexual intercourse and childcare, even though there is no genetic or ecological reason for him to do so." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The modern world does not believe in purpose, only in cause. If modernity has a motto, it is ‘shit happens’." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Referendums and elections are always about human feelings, not about human rationality." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The liberal story cherishes human liberty as its number one value. It argues that all authority ultimately stems from the free will of individual humans, as it is expressed in their feelings, desires and choices. In politics, liberalism believes that the voter knows best. It therefore upholds democratic elections. In economics, liberalism maintains that the customer is always right. It therefore hails free-market principles. In personal matters, liberalism encourages people to listen to themselves, be true to themselves, and follow their hearts – as long as they do not infringe on the liberties of others. This personal freedom is enshrined in human rights." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Capitalism won the Cold War because distributed data processing works better than centralized data processing, at least in periods of accelerating changes." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Other animals may also imagine various things. A cat waiting to ambush a mouse might not see the mouse, but may well imagine the shape and even taste of the mouse. Yet to the best of our knowledge, cats are able to imagine only things that actually exist in the world, like mice. They cannot imagine things that they have never seen or smelled or tasted – such as the US dollar, the Google corporation or the European Union. Only Sapiens can imagine such chimeras. Consequently, whereas cats and other animals are confined to the objective realm and use their communication systems merely to describe reality, Sapiens use language to create completely new realities. During the last 70,000 years the intersubjective realities that Sapiens invented became ever more powerful, so that today they dominate the world. Will the chimpanzees, the elephants, the Amazon rainforests and the Arctic glaciers survive the twenty-first century? This depends on the wishes and decisions of intersubjective entities such as the European Union and the World Bank; entities that exist only in our shared imagination. No" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“One of history's few iron laws is that luxuries tend to become necessities and to spawn new obligations. Once people get used to a certain luxury, they take it for granted. Then they begin to count on it. Finally they reach a point where they can't live without it." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Holy scriptures may have been relevant in the Middle Ages, but how can they guide us in an era of artificial intelligence, bioengineering, global warming, and cyberwarfare? Yet secular people are a minority. Billions of humans still profess greater faith in the Quran and the Bible than in the theory of evolution; religious movements shape the politics of countries as diverse as India, Turkey, and the United States; and religious animosities fuel conflicts from Nigeria to the Philippines." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“THE AGRICULTURAL REVOLUTION IS ONE the of the most controversial events in history. Some partisans proclaim that it set humankind on the road to prosperity and progress. Others insist that it led to perdition." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Feelings guide not just voters but their leaders as well." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“From a biological perspective, nothing is unnatural. Whatever is possible is by definition natural" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“When humans began cultivating the land, they thought that the extra work this required will pay off. 'Yes, we will have to work harder. But the harvest will be so bountiful! We won't have to worry any more about lean years. Our children will never go to sleep hungry.' It made sense.If you worked harder, you would have a better life. That was the plan.The first part of the plan went smoothly. People indeed worked harder. But people did not foresee that the number of children would increase, meaning that the extra wheat would have to be shared between more children.Neither did the early farmers understand that feeding children with more porridge and less breast milk would weaken their immune system, and that permanent settlements would be hotbeds for infectious diseases.They did not foresee that by increasing their dependence on a single source of food, they were actually exposing themselves even more to the depredations of drought. Nor did the farmers foresee that in good years their bulging granaries would tempt thieves and enemies, compelling them to start building walls and doing guard duty." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In the twentieth century, the masses revolted against exploitation, and sought to translate their vital role in the economy into political power. Now the masses fear irrelevance, and they are frantic to use their remaining political power before it is too late. Brexit and the rise of Trump might thus demonstrate an opposite trajectory to that of traditional socialist revolutions. The Russian, Chinese and Cuban revolutions were made by people who were vital for the economy, but who lacked political power; in 2016, Trump and Brexit were supported by many people who still enjoyed political power, but who feared that they were losing their economic worth. Perhaps in the twenty-first century populist revolts will be staged not against an economic elite that exploits people, but against an economic elite that does not need them any more.6 This may well be a losing battle. It is much harder to struggle against irrelevance than against" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Throughout this book we have repeatedly asked what makes humans superior to other animals. Dataism has a new and simple answer. In themselves, human experiences are not superior at all to the experiences of wolves or elephants. One bit of data is as good as another. However, a human can write a poem about his experience and post it online, thereby enriching the global data-processing system. That makes his bits count. A wolf cannot do this." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“A parrot can say anything Albert Einstein could say, as well as mimicking the sounds of phones ringing, doors slamming and sirens wailing. Whatever advantage Einstein had over a parrot, it wasn’t vocal." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Countries measured their success by the size of their territory, the increase in their population and the growth of their GDP – not by the happiness of their citizens. Industrialised nations such as Germany, France and Japan established gigantic systems of education, health and welfare, yet these systems were aimed to strengthen the nation rather than ensure individual well-being. Schools were founded to produce skilful and obedient citizens who would serve the nation loyally. At eighteen, youths needed to be not only patriotic but also literate, so that they could read the brigadier’s order of the day and draw up tomorrow’s battle plans. They had to know mathematics in order to calculate the shell’s trajectory or crack the enemy’s secret code. They needed a reasonable command of electrics, mechanics and medicine in order to operate wireless sets, drive tanks and take care of wounded comrades. When they left the army they were expected to serve the nation as clerks, teachers and engineers, building a modern economy and paying lots of taxes. The same went for the health system. At the end of the nineteenth century countries such as France, Germany and Japan began providing free health care for the masses. They financed vaccinations for infants, balanced diets for children and physical education for teenagers. They drained festering swamps, exterminated mosquitoes and built centralised sewage systems. The aim wasn’t to make people happy, but to make the nation stronger. The country needed sturdy soldiers and workers, healthy women who would give birth to more soldiers and workers, and bureaucrats who came to the office punctually at 8 a.m. instead of lying sick at home. Even the welfare system was originally planned in the interest of the nation rather than of needy individuals. When Otto von Bismarck pioneered state pensions and social security in late nineteenth-century Germany, his chief aim was to ensure the loyalty of the citizens rather than to increase their well-being. You fought for your country when you were eighteen, and paid your taxes when you were forty, because you counted on the state to take care of you when you were seventy.30 In 1776 the Founding Fathers of the United States established the right to the pursuit of happiness as one of three unalienable human rights, alongside the right to life and the right to liberty. It’s important to note, however, that the American Declaration of Independence guaranteed the right to the pursuit of happiness, not the right to happiness itself. Crucially, Thomas Jefferson did not make the state responsible for its citizens’ happiness. Rather, he sought only to limit the power of the state." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“When considering automation, therefore, it is wrong to compare the abilities of a single human driver to that of a single self-driving car, or of a single human doctor to that of a single AI doctor. Rather, we should compare the abilities of a collection of human individuals to the abilities of an integrated network." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Both the Code of Hammurabi and the American Declaration of Independence claim to outline universal and eternal principles of justice, but according to the Americans all people are equal, whereas according to the Babylonians people are decidedly unequal. The Americans would, of course, say that they are right, and that Hammurabi is wrong. Hammurabi, naturally, would retort that he is right, and that the Americans are wrong. In fact, they are both wrong. Hammurabi and the American Founding Fathers alike imagined a reality governed by universal and immutable principles of justice, such as equality or hierarchy. Yet the only place where such universal principles exist is in the fertile imagination of Sapiens, and in the myths they invent and tell one another. These principles have no objective validity." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“When you live under such an oligarchy, there is always some crisis or other that takes priority over boring stuff like healthcare and pollution." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Contemporary American politics also revolve around this contradiction. Democrats want a more equitable society, even if it means raising taxes to fund programmes to help the poor, elderly and infirm. But that infringes on the freedom of individuals to spend their money as they wish. Why should the government force me to buy health insurance if I prefer using the money to put my kids through college? Republicans, on the other hand, want to maximise individual freedom, even if it means that the income gap between rich and poor will grow wider and that many Americans will not be able to afford health care." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The fact is, it’s not a deception, but rather a tribute to the amazing abilities of the human imagination. What enables banks – and the entire economy – to survive and flourish is our trust in the future. This trust is the sole backing for most of the money in the world." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Homo sapiens is just not built for satisfaction. Human happiness depends less on objective conditions and more on our own expectations. Expectations, however, tend to adapt to conditions, including the conditions of other people. When things improve, expectations balloon, and so even dramatic improvements in conditions might leave us as dissatisfied as before." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“To satisfy both optimists and pessimists, we may conclude by saying that we are on the threshold of both heaven and hell, moving nervously between the gateway of the one and the anteroom of the other. History has still not decided where we will end up, and a string of coincidences might yet send us rolling in either direction." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“individual humans are likely to be replaced by an integrated network" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Politicians are a bit like musicians, and the instrument they play on is the human emotional and biochemical system. They give a speech, and there is a wave of fear in the country. They tweet, and there is an explosion of hatred." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Many neo-liberal economists and political scientists argue that it is best to leave all the important decisions in the hands of the free market. They thereby give politicians the perfect excuse for inaction and ignorance, which are reinterpreted as profound wisdom. Politicians find it convenient to believe that the reason they don’t understand the world is that they need not understand it." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Yet since these triumphs actually result from mass cooperation, it is far less clear why they should make us revere individual humans." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“People easily understand that 'primitives' cement their social order by believing in ghosts and spirits, and gathering each full moon to dance together around the campfire. What we fail to appreciate is that our modern institutions function on exactly the same basis. Take for example the world of business corporations, Modern business-people and lawyers are, in fact, powerful sorcerers. The principal difference between them and tribal shamans is that modern lawyers tell far stranger tales." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Les scribes anciens apprirent non seulement à lire et à écrire, mais aussi à utiliser des catalogues, des dictionnaires, des calendriers, des formulaires et des tableaux. Ils étudièrent et assimilèrent des techniques de catalogage, de récupération et de traitement de l’information très différentes de celles du cerveau. Dans le cerveau, les données sont associées librement. Quand, avec mon épouse, je vais signer une hypothèque pour notre nouvelle maison, je me souviens du premier endroit où nous avons vécu ensemble, ce qui me rappelle notre lune de miel à la Nouvelle-Orléans, qui me rappelle les alligators, qui me font penser aux dragons, qui me rappelle L’Anneau des Nibelungen… Et soudain, sans même m’en rendre compte, je fredonne le leitmotiv de Siegfried devant l’employé de banque interloqué. Dans la bureaucratie, on se doit de séparer les choses. Un tiroir pour les hypothèques de la maison, un autre pour les certificats de mariage, un troisième pour les impôts et un quatrième pour les procès. Comment retrouver quoi que ce soit autrement ? Ce qui entre dans plus d’un tiroir, comme les drames wagnériens (dois-je les ranger dans la rubrique « musique » ou « théâtre », voire inventer carrément une nouvelle catégorie ?), est un terrible casse-tête. On n’en a donc jamais fini d’ajouter, de supprimer et de réorganiser des tiroirs. Pour que ça marche, les gens qui gèrent ce système de tiroirs doivent être reprogrammés afin qu’ils cessent de penser en humains et se mettent à penser en employés de bureau et en comptables. Depuis les temps les plus anciens jusqu’à aujourd’hui, tout le monde le sait : les employés de bureau et les comptables ne pensent pas en êtres humains. Ils pensent comme on remplit des dossiers. Ce n’est pas leur faute. S’ils ne pensent pas comme ça, leurs tiroirs seront tout mélangés, et ils seront incapables de rendre les services que leur administration, leur société ou leur organisation demande. Tel est précisément l’impact le plus important de l’écriture sur l’histoire humaine : elle a progressivement changé la façon dont les hommes pensent et voient le monde. Libre association et pensée holiste ont laissé la place au compartimentage et à la bureaucratie." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In the end, it’s a simple empirical matter: if the algorithms indeed understand what’s happening within you better than you understand it, authority will shift to them." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In the long run, algorithms may learn how to compose entire tunes, playing on human emotions as if they were a piano keyboard. Using your biometric data, the algorithms could even produce personalized melodies, which you alone in the entire universe would appreciate." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“as people live longer and have fewer children, care of the elderly will probably be one of the fastest-growing sectors in the human labor market." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If there is no cosmic plan, and we are not committed to any divine or natural laws, what prevents social collapse? How come you can travel for thousands of miles, from Amsterdam to Bucharest or from New Orleans to Montreal, without being kidnapped by slave-traders, ambushed by outlaws or killed by feuding tribes? Look" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Knowledge that does not change behaviour is useless. But knowledge that changes behaviour quickly loses its relevance. The more data we have and the better we understand history, the faster history alters its course, and the faster our knowledge becomes outdated." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Cuando aparecieron la agricultura y la industria, la gente pudo basarse cada vez más en las habilidades de los demás para sobrevivir, y se abrieron nuevos «nichos para imbéciles»." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“SEVENTY THOUSAND YEARS AGO, HOMO sapiens was still an insignificant animal minding its own business in a corner of Africa. In the following millennia it transformed itself into the master of the entire planet and the terror of the ecosystem. Today it stands on the verge of becoming a god, poised to acquire not only eternal youth, but also the divine abilities of creation and destruction. Unfortunately, the Sapiens regime on earth has so far produced little that we can be proud of. We have mastered our surroundings, increased food production, built cities, established empires and created far-flung trade networks. But did we decrease the amount of suffering in the world? Time and again, massive increases in human power did not necessarily improve the well-being of individual Sapiens, and usually caused immense misery to other animals. In the last few decades we have at last made some real progress as far as the human condition is concerned, with the reduction of famine, plague and war. Yet the situation of other animals is deteriorating more rapidly than ever before, and the improvement in the lot of humanity is too recent and fragile to be certain of. Moreover, despite the astonishing things that humans are capable of doing, we remain unsure of our goals and we seem to be as discontented as ever. We have advanced from canoes to galleys to steamships to space shuttles – but nobody knows where we’re going. We are more powerful than ever before, but have very little idea what to do with all that power. Worse still, humans seem to be more irresponsible than ever. Self-made gods with only the laws of physics to keep us company, we are accountable to no one. We are consequently wreaking havoc on our fellow animals and on the surrounding ecosystem, seeking little more than our own comfort and amusement, yet never finding satisfaction. Is there anything more dangerous than dissatisfied and irresponsible gods who don’t know what they want?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Gautama found that there was a way to exit this vicious circle. If, when the mind experiences something pleasant or unpleasant, it simply understand things as they are, then there is no suffering. If you experience sadness but you do not suffer from it. There can actually be richness in the sadness. If you experience joy without craving that the joy linger and intensify, you continue to feel joy without losing your peace of mind." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“suffering arises from craving; the only way to be fully liberated from suffering is to be fully liberated from craving; and the only way to be liberated from craving is to train the mind to experience reality as it is. This" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The Agricultural Revolution was history's biggest fraud. Who was responsible? Neither kings, nor priests, nor merchants. The culprits were a handful or plant species, including wheat, rice and potatoes. These plants domesticated Homo Sapiens, rather than vice versa." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“A crucial step on this journey is to acknowledge that the “self” is a fictional story that the intricate mechanisms of our mind constantly manufacture, update, and rewrite. There is a storyteller in my mind that explains who I am, where I come from, where I am heading, and what is happening to me right now." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Of course, you might be perfectly happy ceding all authority to the algorithms and trusting them to decide things for you and for the rest of the world. If so, just relax and enjoy the ride. You don't need to do anything about it. The algorithms will take care of everything. If, however, you want to retain some control over your personal existence and the future of life, you have to run faster than the algorithms, faster than Amazon and the government, and get to know yourself before they do. To run fast, don't take much baggage with you. Leave all your illusions behind. They are very heavy." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“We might actually get the worst of both worlds, suffering simultaneously from high unemployment and a shortage of skilled labor." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Animist evrende herkes birbiriyle doğrudan konuşabiliyordu. Bir ren geyiğinden, incir ağaçlarından, bulutlardan ya da taşlardan bir şey istemeniz gerekirse sormanız yeterdi. Teist evrendeyse insanlar dışında her şey sessizdi. Bu nedenle ne ağaçlarla ne de hayvanlarla doğrudan konuşmak mümkündü. Peki, ağaçtan daha fazla meyve, inekten daha çok süt: buluttan yağmur, böceklerden ekinlerinizden uzak durmalarını nasıl isteyeceksiniz? Tanrılar işte burada devreye girerdi; yağmur yağdırmaya, bereketi artırmaya ve onları korumaya söz verirlerdi, tabii insanlar karşılığını verdiği müddetçe. Tarım sözleşmesinin temelinde bu yatıyordu. Tanrılar tarlaların bereketini artırır ve korurlarken, insanlar da ürettiklerini tanrılarla paylaşırdı. Ekosistemin tamamı pahasına sadece iki tarafın çıkarlarını gözeten bir sözleşme…" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Many doctors focus almost exclusively on processing information: they absorb medical data, analyze it, and produce a diagnosis. Nurses, in contrast, need good motor and emotional skills in order to give a painful injection, replace a bandage, or restrain a violent patient. Therefore we will probably have an AI family doctor on our smartphone decades before we have a reliable nurse robot.9 The human care industry—which takes care of the sick, the young, and the elderly—is likely to remain a human bastion for a long time. Indeed, as people live longer and have fewer children, care of the elderly will probably be one of the fastest-growing sectors in the human labor market." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The presumption to rule the entire world for the benefit of all its inhabitants was startling. Evolution has made Homo sapiens, like other social mammals, a xenophobic creature. Sapiens instinctively divide humanity into two parts, ‘we’ and ‘they’. We are people like you and me, who share our language, religion and customs. We are all responsible for each other, but not responsible for them. We were always distinct from them, and owe them nothing. We don’t want to see any of them in our territory, and we don’t care an iota what happens in their territory. They are barely even human. In the language of the Dinka people of the Sudan, ‘Dinka’ simply means ‘people’. People who are not Dinka are not people. The Dinka’s bitter enemies are the Nuer. What does the word Nuer mean in Nuer language? It means ‘original people’. Thousands of miles from the Sudan deserts, in the frozen ice-lands of Alaska and north-eastern Siberia, live the Yupiks. What does Yupik mean in Yupik language? It means ‘real people’.3" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Increasing the variety of processors. Different processors may use diverse ways to calculate and analyse data. Using several kinds of processors in a single system may therefore increase its dynamism and creativity. A conversation between a peasant, a priest and a physician may produce novel ideas that would never emerge from a conversation between three hunter-gatherers." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“At the end of the eighteenth century the British philosopher Jeremy Bentham declared that the supreme good is ‘the greatest happiness of the greatest number’, and concluded that the sole worthy aim of the state, the market and the scientific community is to increase global happiness. Politicians should make peace, business people should foster prosperity and scholars should study nature, not for the greater glory of king, country or God – but so that you and I could enjoy a happier life." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“the last thing a teacher needs to give her pupils is more information. They already have far too much of it. Instead, people need the ability to make sense of information, to tell the difference between what is important and what is unimportant, and above all to combine many bits of information into a broad picture of the world." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“humans suffer from insufficient data, from faulty programming (genetic and cultural), from muddled definitions, and from the chaos of life." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The Spanish and Portuguese empires proclaimed that it was not riches they sought in the Indies and America, but converts to the true faith. The sun never set on the British mission to spread the twin gospels of liberalism and free trade. The Soviets felt duty-bound to facilitate the inexorable historical march from capitalism towards the utopian dictatorship of the proletariat. Many Americans nowadays maintain that their government has a moral imperative to bring Third World countries the benefits of democracy and human rights, even if these goods are delivered by cruise missiles and F-16s." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“We have now run out of time. The decisions we will make in the next few decades will shape the future of life itself, and we can make these decisions based only on our present worldview." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Another possibility is that competition for resources flared up into violence and genocide. Tolerance is not a Sapiens trademark. In modern times, a small difference in skin colour, dialect or religion has been enough to prompt one group of Sapiens to set about exterminating another group. Would" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Sapiens rule the world because we alone can cooperate flexibly in large numbers, then" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It may well be that foragers switched from gathering wild wheat to intense wheat cultivation, not to increase their normal food supply, but rather to support the building and running of a temple. In the conventional picture, pioneers first built a village, and when it prospered, they set up a temple in the middle. But Göbekli Tepe suggests that the temple may have been built first, and that a village later grew up around it." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Pero no queremos aceptar que nuestro Dios, nuestra nación o nuestros valores sean meras ficciones, porque estas cosas dan sentido a nuestra vida." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The Scientific Revolution has not been a revolution of knowledge. It has been above all a revolution of ignorance. The great discovery that launched the Scientific Revolution was the discovery that humans do not know the answers to their most important questions. Premodern" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It is an iron rule of history that what looks inevitable in hindsight was far from obvious at the time. Today" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In trying to comprehend and judge moral dilemmas of this scale, people often resort to one of four methods. The first is to downsize the issue. To understand the Syrian civil war as though it were occurring between two foragers, for example, one imagines the Assad regime as a lone person and the rebels as another person; one of them is bad and one of them is good. The historical complexity of the conflict is replaced by a simple, clear plot.4 The second method is to focus on a touching human story that ostensibly stands for the whole conflict. When you try to explain to people the true complexity of the conflict by means of statistics and precise data, you lose them, but a personal story about the fate of one child activates the tear ducts, makes the blood boil, and generates false moral certainty.5 This is something that many charities have understood for a long time. In one noteworthy experiment, people were asked to donate money to help a poor seven-year-old girl from Mali named Rokia. Many were moved by her story and opened their hearts and purses. However, when in addition to Rokia’s personal story the researchers also presented people with statistics about the broader problem of poverty in Africa, respondents suddenly became less willing to help. In another study, scholars solicited donations to help either one sick child or eight sick children. People gave more money to the single child than to the group of eight.6" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“AI might similarly help groom the best detectives, bankers, and soldiers in history." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Anyone who has ever dealt with the tax authorities, the education system or any other complex bureaucracy knows that the truth hardly matters. What’s written on your form is far more important." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“without a social safety net and a modicum of economic equality, liberty is meaningless." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Before embarking on this intellectual journey, I would like to highlight one crucial point. In much of this book I discuss the shortcomings of the liberal worldview and the democratic system. I do so not because I believe liberal democracy is uniquely problematic but rather because I think it is the most successful and most versatile political model humans have so far developed for dealing with the challenges of the modern world. While it might not be appropriate for every society in every stage of development, it has proven its worth in more societies and in more situations than any of its alternatives. So when we are examining the new challenges that lie ahead of us, it is necessary to understand the limitations of liberal democracy and to explore how we can adapt and improve its current institutions. Unfortunately, in the present political climate any critical thinking about liberalism and democracy might be hijacked by autocrats and various illiberal movements, whose sole interest is to discredit liberal democracy rather than to engage in an open discussion about the future of humanity. While they are more than happy to debate the problems of liberal democracy, they have almost no tolerance of any criticism directed at them. As an author, I was therefore required to make a difficult choice. Should I speak my mind openly and risk that my words might be taken out of context and used to justify burgeoning autocracies? Or should I censor myself? It is a mark of illiberal regimes that they make free speech more difficult even outside their borders. Due to the spread of such regimes, it is becoming increasingly dangerous to think critically about the future of our species. After some soul-searching, I chose free discussion over self-censorship. Without criticizing the liberal model, we cannot repair its faults or move beyond it. But please note that this book could have been written only when people are still relatively free to think what they like and to express themselves as they wish. If you value this book, you should also value the freedom of expression." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“A good rule of thumb is ‘Biology enables, culture forbids.’ Biology is willing to tolerate a very wide spectrum of possibilities. It’s culture that obliges people to realise some possibilities while forbidding others. Biology enables women to have children – some cultures oblige women to realise this possibility. Biology enables men to enjoy sex with one another – some cultures forbid them to realise this possibility. Culture tends to argue that it forbids only that which is unnatural. But from a biological perspective, nothing is unnatural. Whatever is possible is by definition also natural. A truly unnatural behaviour, one that goes against the laws of nature, simply cannot exist, so it would need no prohibition. No culture has ever bothered to forbid men to photosynthesise, women to run faster than the speed of light, or negatively charged electrons to be attracted to each other." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The danger is that if we invest too much in developing AI and too little in developing human consciousness, the very sophisticated artificial intelligence of computer might only serve to empower the natural stupidity of humans. We are unlikely to face a robot rebellion in the coming decades, but we might have to deal with hordes of bots who know how to press our emotional buttons better than our mother, and use this uncanny ability to try and sell us something- be it a car, a politician, or an entire ideology. The bots could identify our deepest fears, hatreds and cravings, and use these inner leverages against us." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“the job market of 2050 might well be characterized by human-AI cooperation rather than competition." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Así es como se desarrolla la historia. La gente teje una red de sentido, cree en ella con todo su corazón, pero más pronto o más tarde la red se desenmaraña, y cuando miramos atrás, no podemos entender cómo nadie pudo haberla tomado en serio." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In order to keep up with the world of 2050, you will need not merely to invent new ideas and products but above all to reinvent yourself again and again." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Creating new human jobs might prove easier than retraining humans to actually fill these jobs." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“it is hardly natural for humans to be loyal to millions of utter strangers." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“For all of the most important things, the timing always sucks. Waiting for a good time to quit your job? The stars will never align and the traffic lights of life will never all be green at the same time. The universe doesn't conspire against you, but it doesn't go out of its way to line up the pins either. Conditions are never perfect. Someday is a disease that will take your dreams to the grave with you. Pro and con lists are just as bad. If it's important to you and you want to do it eventually, just do it and correct course along the way." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What we fear doing most is usually what we most need to do." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“But you are the average of the five people you associate with most, so do not underestimate the effects of your pessimistic, unambitious, or disorganized friends. If someone isn't making you stronger, they're making you weaker." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“People will choose unhappiness over uncertainty." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“A person's success in life can usually be measured by the number of uncomfortable conversations he or she is willing to have." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you are insecure, guess what? The rest of the world is, too. Do not overestimate the competition and underestimate yourself. You are better than you think." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The question you should be asking isn't, What do I want? or What are my goals? but What would excite me?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Focus on being productive instead of busy." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The opposite of love is indifference, and the opposite of happiness is boredom." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“To enjoy life, you don't need fancy nonsense, but you do need to control your time and realize that most things just aren't as serious as you make them out to be." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Slow Dance:Have you ever watched kids, On a merry-go-round? Or listened to the rain, Slapping on the ground? Ever followed a butterfly's erratic flight? Or gazed at the sun into the fading night? You better slow down. Don't dance too fast. Time is short. The music won't last. Do you run through each day, On the fly? When you ask: How are you? Do you hear the reply? When the day is done, do you lie in your bed, With the next hundred chores, Running through your head? You'd better slow down, Don't dance too fast. Time is short, The music won't last. Ever told your child we'll do it tomorrow? And in your haste, Not see his sorrow? Ever lost touch, Let a good friendship die, Cause you never had time, To call and say Hi? You'd better slow down. Don't dance so fast. Time is short. The music won't last. When you run so fast to get somewhere, You miss half the fun of getting there. When you worry and hurry through your day, It is like an unopened gift thrown away. Life is not a race. Do take it slower. Hear the music, Before the song is over." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Being able to quit things that don't work is integral to being a winner" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Most people are fast to stop you before you get started but hesitate to get in the way if you're moving." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The world is changed by your example, not by your opinion." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Learn to be difficult when it counts. In school as in life, having a reputation for being assertive will help you receive preferential treatment without having to beg or fight for it every time." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Many a false step was made by standing still." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Poisonous people do not deserve your time. To think otherwise is masochistic." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Excitement is the more practical synonym for happiness, and it is precisely what you should strive to chase. It is the cure-all." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It's lonely at the top. Ninety-nine percent of people in the world are convinced they are incapable of achieving great things, so they aim for the mediocre. The level of competition is thus fiercest for 'realistic' goals, paradoxically making them the most time and energy-consuming." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Life is too short to be small." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I'll repeat something you might consider tattooing on your forehead: What we fear doing most is usually what we most need to do." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Remember—boredom is the enemy, not some abstract failure." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Doing less is not being lazy. Don't give in to a culture that values personal sacrifice over personal productivity." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“$1,000,000 in the bank isn't the fantasy. The fantasy is the lifestyle of complete freedom it supposedly allows." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Information is useless if it is not applied to something important or if you will forget it before you have a chance to apply it." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The bottom line is that you only have the rights you fight for." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The fishing is best where the fewest go and the collective insecurity of the world makes it easy for people to hit home runs while everyone is aiming for base hits." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Someday” is a disease that will take your dreams to the grave with you." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“By working only when you are most effective, life is both more productive and more enjoyable. It's the perfect example of having your cake and eating it, too." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Role models who push us to exceed our limits, physical training that removes our spare tires, and risks that expand our sphere of comfortable action are all examples of eustress—stress that is healthful and the stimulus for growth." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Productivity is for robots. What humans are going to be really good at is asking questions, being creative, and experiences.”   Kevin Kelly" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The most important trick to be happy is to realize that happiness is a choice that you make and a skill that you develop. You choose to be happy, and then you work at it. It’s just like building muscles." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Never automate something that can be eliminated, and never delegate something that can be automated or streamlined. Otherwise, you waste someone else's time instead of your own, which now wastes your hard-earned cash. How's that for incentive to be effective and efficient?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Losers have goals. Winners have systems." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The goal is not to simply eliminate the bad, which does nothing more than leave you with a vacuum, but to pursue and experience the best in the world." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“WHEN 99% OF PEOPLE DOUBT YOU, YOU’RE EITHER GRAVELY WRONG OR ABOUT TO MAKE HISTORY." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Judge a man by his questions rather than his answers.” —Pierre-Marc-Gaston" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Creativity is an infinite resource. The more you spend,the more you have." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you ran into an asshole in the morning you ran into an asshole. If you run into assholes all day, you're the asshole." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Different is better when it is more effective or more fun." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Alternating periods of activity and rest is necessary to survive, let alone thrive. Capacity, interest, and mental endurance all wax and wane. Plan accordingly." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you spend your time, worth $20-25 per hour, doing something that someone else will do for $10 per hour, it's simply a poor use of resources." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Being busy is a form of laziness - lazy thinking and indiscriminate action." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you let your learning lead to knowledge, you become a fool. If you let your learning lead to action, you become wealthy." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Learn to be difficult when it counts" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Doing something unimportant well does not make it important." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Never let a good crisis go to waste. It’s the universe challenging you to learn something new and rise to the next level of your potential." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Pareto's Law can be summarized as follows: 80% of the outputsresult from 20% of the inputs." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It is predicated on the assumption that you dislike what you are doing during the most physically capable years of your life. This is a nonstarter—nothing can justify that sacrifice." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Pacifists become militants.Freedom fighters become tyrants.Blessings become curses.Help becomes hindrance.More becomes less." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“here’s my 8-step process for maximizing efficacy (doing the right things): Wake up at least 1 hour before you have to be at a computer screen. Email is the mind-killer. Make a cup of tea (I like pu-erh) and sit down with a pen/pencil and paper. Write down the 3 to 5 things—and no more—that are making you the most anxious or uncomfortable. They’re often things that have been punted from one day’s to-do list to the next, to the next, to the next, and so on. Most important usually equals most uncomfortable, with some chance of rejection or conflict. For each item, ask yourself: “If this were the only thing I accomplished today, would I be satisfied with my day?” “Will moving this forward make all the other to-dos unimportant or easier to knock off later?” Put another way: “What, if done, will make all of the rest easier or irrelevant?” Look only at the items you’ve answered “yes” to for at least one of these questions. Block out at 2 to 3 hours to focus on ONE of them for today. Let the rest of the urgent but less important stuff slide. It will still be there tomorrow. TO BE CLEAR: Block out at 2 to 3 HOURS to focus on ONE of them for today. This is ONE BLOCK OF TIME. Cobbling together 10 minutes here and there to add up to 120 minutes does not work. No phone calls or social media allowed. If you get distracted or start procrastinating, don’t freak out and downward-spiral; just gently come back to your ONE to-do." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“For all their bitching about what’s holding them back, most people have a lot of trouble coming up with the defined dreams they’re being held from." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Simon received the Nobel Prize in 1978 for his contribution to organizational decision making: It is impossible to have perfect and complete information at any given time to make a decision." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Desire is a contract you make with yourself to be unhappy until you get what you want." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Investing in yourself is the most important investment you’ll ever make in your life. . . . There’s no financial investment that’ll ever match it, because if you develop more skill, more ability, more insight, more capacity, that’s what’s going to really provide economic freedom. . . . It’s those skill sets that really make that happen.” This" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Happiness is wanting what you have." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What advice would you give to a smart, driven college student about to enter the “real world”? What advice should they ignore? I’m probably hopelessly out of date but my advice is get real-world experience: Be a cowboy. Drive a truck. Join the Marine Corps. Get out of the hypercompetitive “life hack” frame of mind. I’m 74. Believe me, you’ve got all the time in the world. You’ve got ten lifetimes ahead of you. Don’t worry about your friends “beating” you or “getting somewhere” ahead of you. Get out into the real dirt world and start failing. Why do I say that? Because the goal is to connect with your own self, your own soul. Adversity. Everybody spends their life trying to avoid it. Me too. But the best things that ever happened to me came during the times when the shit hit the fan and I had nothing and nobody to help me. Who are you really? What do you really want? Get out there and fail and find out." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The golden years become lower-middle-class life revisited. That's a bittersweet ending." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Don’t confuse the complex with the difficult. Most situations are simple – many are just emotionally difficult to act upon." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The reasonable man adapts himself to the world; the unreasonable one persists in trying to adapt the world to himself. Therefore all progress depends on the unreasonable man. —GEORGE BERNARD SHAW, Maxims for Revolutionists" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you are nervous about making the jump or simply putting it off out of fear of the unknown, here is your antidote. Write down your answers to these questions, and keep in mind that thinking a lot will not prove as fruitful or as prolific as simply brain vomiting on the page. Write and do not edit - aim for volume. Spend a few minutes on each answer.1. Define your nightmare, the absolute worst that could happen if you did what you are considering.2. What steps could you take to repair the damage or get things back on the upswing, even if temporarily?3. What are the outcomes or benefits, both temporary and permanent, of more probably scenarios?4. If you were fired from your job today, what would you do to get things under financial control?5. What are you putting off out of fear?6. What is it costing you - financially, emotionally, and physically - to postpone action?7. What are you waiting for?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I will take as a given that, for most people, somewhere between six and seven billion of them, the perfect job is the one that takes the least time." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I always advise young people to become good public speakers (top 25%). Anyone can do it with practice. If you add that talent to any other, suddenly you’re the boss of the people who have only one skill." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It’s amazing how someone’s IQ seems to double as soon as you give them responsibility and indicate that you trust them." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“People are fond of using the its not what you know, its who you know adage as an excuse for inaction, as if all successful people are born with powerful friends. Nonsense." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“When You Complain, Nobody Wants to Help You" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Reading, after a certain age, diverts the mind too much from its creative pursuits. Any man who reads too much and uses his own brain too little falls into lazy habits of thinking. —ALBERT EINSTEIN" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you let pride stop you, you will hate life" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Ours is a culture where we wear our ability to get by on very little sleep as a kind of badge of honor that symbolizes work ethic, or toughness, or some other virtue—but really, it’s a total profound failure of priorities and of self-respect." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The superheroes you have in your mind (idols, icons, titans, billionaires, etc.) are nearly all walking flaws who’ve maximized 1 or 2 strengths." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Often, all that stands between you and what you want is a better set of questions." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“When you try to do something big its hard to fail completely." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If this is the only thing I accomplish today, will I be satisfied with my day?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“People don’t want to be millionaires — they want to experience what they believe only millions can buy." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“One of my favorite quotes is by Ralph Waldo Emerson: “To laugh often and much; to win the respect of intelligent people and the affection of children . . . to leave the world a bit better . . . to know even one life has breathed easier because you have lived; this is to have succeeded." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Life punishes the vague wish and rewards the specific ask. After all, conscious thinking is largely asking and answering questions in your own head. If you want confusion and heartache, ask vague questions. If you want uncommon clarity and results, ask uncommonly clear questions." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Give vulnerability a shot. Give discomfort its due. Because I think he or she who is willing to be the most uncomfortable is not only the bravest, but rises the fastest." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“When I wake up in the morning, I’m thinking to myself: What can I do to be ready for that moment, which is coming? That propels me out of bed." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“By using money as the scapegoat and work as our all-consuming routine, we are able to conveniently disallow ourselves to do otherwise: 'John, I'd love to talk about the gaping void I feel in my life, the hopelessness that hits me like a punch in the eye every time I start my computer in the morning, but I have so much work to do! I've got at least three hours of unimportant email to reply to before calling prospects who said 'no' yesterday. Gotta run!" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you want an average, successful life, it doesn’t take much planning. Just stay out of trouble, go to school, and apply for jobs you might like. But if you want something extraordinary, you have two paths: 1) Become the best at one specific thing. 2) Become very good (top 25%) at two or more things. The" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Using people to leverage a refined process multiplies production; using people as a solution to a poor process multiplies problems." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The first ten minutes of sorting through clothing was like choosing which child of mine should live or die." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“every day, it’s something to reflect on and think about ‘How do I become less competitive in order that I can become more successful?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“To “fix” someone’s problem, you very often just need to empathically listen to them. Even" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Ever tried. Ever failed. No matter. Try again. Fail again. Fail better.’ You won’t believe what you can accomplish by attempting the impossible with the courage to repeatedly fail better." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Adversity doesn’t build character; it reveals it." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Everyone is fighting a battle you know nothing about. The heroes in this book are no different. Everyone struggles. Take solace in that." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The end product of the shorterdeadline is almost inevitably of equal or higher quality due to greaterfocus." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Being overwhelmed is often as unproductive as doing nothing, and is far more unpleasant. Being selective - doing less - is the path of the productive. Focus on the important few and ignore the rest." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Sports just happen to be excellent for avoiding foreign-language stage fright and developing lasting friendships while still sounding like Tarzan." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Becoming a member of the NR is not just about working smarter. It's about building a system to replace yourself." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It is possible to become world-class, enter the top 5% of performers in the world, in almost any subject within 6-12 months, or even 6-12 weeks." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What problem do you face every day that nobody has solved yet?” or “What is a great company no one has started?” I will" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The decent method you follow is better than the perfect method you quit." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Age doesn't matter: an open mind does." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Don’t do things that you know are morally wrong. Not because someone is watching, but because you are. Self-esteem is just the reputation that you have with yourself. You’ll always know." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Being busy is most often used as a guise for avoiding the few critically important but uncomfortable actions." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Fighting emotions is like flailing in quicksand—it only makes things worse. Sometimes, the most proactive “defense” is a mental nod and wink." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Age doesn’t matter; an open mind does." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Pure hell forces action, but anything less can be endured with enough clever rationalization." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Routine, in an intelligent man, is a sign of ambition.” —W.H. Auden" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Simple works, complex fails." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Money doesn't change you; it reveals who you are when you no longer have to be nice" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“We do not rise to the level of our expectations. We fall to the level of our training.” —Archilochus" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“You always have three options. You can change it, you can accept it, or you can leave it. What is not a good option is to sit around wishing you would change it but not changing it, wishing you would leave it but not leaving it, and not accepting it. It’s that struggle, that aversion, that is responsible for most of our misery. The phrase that I probably use the most to myself in my head is just one word: accept." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Nothing breaks my heart more than seeing that person who’s struggling to lose weight who thinks that they need to run 20 miles a week. They have no desire to do it, their knees hurt, they hate it, and they’re not losing weight. And I’d like to say, ‘Well, I’ve got great news for you. You don’t ever need to run another step a day in your life, because there’s no value in that.’ “There is value in exercise, though, and I think that the most important type of exercise, especially in terms of bang for your buck, is going to be really high-intensity, heavy strength training. Strength training aids everything from glucose disposal and metabolic health to mitochondrial density and orthopedic stability. That last one might not mean much when you’re a 30-something young buck, but when you’re in your 70s, that’s the difference between a broken hip and a walk in the park." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Don’t save it all for the end. There is every reason not to." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“My goal is to learn things once and use them forever." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“You must want to be a butterfly so badly, you are willing to give up being a caterpillar." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“When you’re thinking of how to make your business bigger, it’s tempting to try to think all the big thoughts, the world-changing, massive-action plans. But please know that it’s often the tiny details that really thrill someone enough to make them tell all their friends about you." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Happiness can be bought with a bottle of wine and has become ambiguous through overuse." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The fishing is best where the fewest go," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“You’re not responsible for the hand of cards you were dealt. You’re responsible for maxing out what you were given." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“For the employee, the goal is to have full access to necessary information and as much independent decision-making ability as possible. For the entrepreneur, the goal is to grant as much information and independent decision-making ability to employees or contractors as possible." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“One does not accumulate but eliminate. It is not daily increase but daily decrease. The height of cultivation always runs to simplicity. —BRUCE LEE" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“the major fears of modern man could be boiled down to two things: too much e-mail and getting fat." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“people, even good people, will unknowingly abuse your time to the extent that you let them. Set good rules for all involved to minimize back-and-forth and meaningless communication." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Most people are fast to stop you before you get started but hesitant to get in the way if you’re moving." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Even if you are predisposed to being overweight, you’re not predestined to be fat." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What man actually needs is not a tensionless state but rather the striving and struggling for a worthwhile goal, a freely chosen task. —VIKTOR E. FRANKL, Holocaust survivor; author of Man’s Search for Meaning" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Everything popular is wrong. —OSCAR WILDE, The Importance of Being Earnest" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“With a decrease in the number of pirates, there has been an increase in global warming over the same period. Therefore, global warming is caused by a lack of pirates. Even more compelling: Somalia has the highest number of Pirates AND the lowest Carbon emissions of any country. Coincidence?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Not life, but good life, is to be chiefly valued. —Socrates" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“When you feel overwhelmed or unfocused, what do you do? I have a friend at the gym who knew Jack LaLanne (Google him if the name is unfamiliar). Jack used to say it’s okay to take a day off from working out. But on that day, you’re not allowed to eat. That’s the short way of saying you’re not really allowed to get unfocused. Take a vacation. Gather yourself. But know that the only reason you’re here on this planet is to follow your star and do what the Muse tells you. It’s amazing how a good day’s work will get you right back to feeling like yourself." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Doing the Unrealistic Is Easier Than Doing the Realistic" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Most information is time-consuming, negative, irrelevant to your goals, and outside of your influence. I challenge you to look at whatever you read or watched today and tell me that it wasn’t at least two of the four. I read the front-page headlines through" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Learning to ignore things is one of the great paths to inner peace. —ROBERT J. SAWYER, Calculating God" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“How is it possible that all the people in the world need exactly 8 hours to accomplish their work? It isn’t. 9–5 is arbitrary." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Meetings are an addictive, highly self-indulgent activity that corporations and other organizations habitually engage in only because they cannot actually masturbate. —DAVE BARRY, Pulitzer Prize–winning American humorist" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It’s a short reminder that success can usually be measured by the number of uncomfortable conversations we are willing to have, and by the number of uncomfortable actions we are willing to take. The most fulfilled and effective people I know—world-famous creatives, billionaires, thought leaders, and more—look at their life’s journey as perhaps 25 percent finding themselves and 75 percent creating themselves." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It is far more lucrative and fun to leverage your strengths instead of attempting to fix all the chinks in your armor." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Capitalism rewards things that are both rare and valuable. You make yourself rare by combining two or more “pretty goods” until no one else has your mix. ." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If I want a better-than-average career, I can’t simply ‘go with the flow’ and get it. Most people do just that: they wish for an outcome but make no intention-driven actions toward that outcome. If they would just do something most people would find that they get some version of the outcome they’re looking for. That’s been my secret. Stop wishing and start doing." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Relative income uses two variables: the dollar and time, usually hours." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What do you want? is too imprecise to produce a meaningful and actionable answer." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What is the 20% of my belongings that I use 80% of the time? Eliminate the other 80% in clothing, magazines, books, and all else. Be ruthless - you can always repurchase things you can't live without." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you can’t define it or act upon it, forget it." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“One evening, intending to ask my host mother to wake me the next morning (okosu), I ask her to violently rape me (okasu). She is very confused." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The factory of the future will have only two employees, a man and a dog. The man will be there to feed the dog. The dog will be there to keep the man from touching the equipment. —WARREN G. BENNIS," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“take things like playfulness and purposelessness very seriously. . . . This is not meant to be light, but I think I would have somehow encouraged myself to let go a little bit more and hang in there and not pretend to know where this is all going. You don’t need to know where it’s all going." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I believe that success can be measured in the number of uncomfortable conversations you’re willing to have." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Less Is Not LazinessDoing less meaningless work, so that you can focus on things of greater personal importance, is NOT laziness. This is hard for most to accept, because our culture tends to reward personal sacrifice instead of personal productivity." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In cooking—as in business and war—hope for the best but plan for the worst." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“1. Limit tasks to the important to shorten work time (80/20). 2. Shorten work time to limit tasks to the important (Parkinson’s Law)." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Don’t aim at success. The more you aim at it and make it a target, the more you are going to miss it. For success, like happiness, cannot be pursued. . . . Happiness must happen, and the same holds for success: you have to let it happen by not caring about it. I want you to listen to what your conscience commands you to do and go on to carry it out to the best of your knowledge. Then you will live to see that in the long-run—in the long-run, I say!—success will follow you precisely because you had forgotten to think about it.” —Viktor E. Frankl, Man’s Search for Meaning" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In the end, winning is sleeping better.” —Jodie Foster" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“a person’s success in life can usually be measured by the number of uncomfortable conversations he or she is willing to have." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“By working faithfully eight hours a day, you may eventually get to be a boss and work twelve hours a day. —ROBERT FROST, American poet and winner of four Pulitzer Prizes" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Make mistakes of ambition and not mistakes of sloth. Develop the strength to do bold things, not the strength to suffer. —NICCOLÒ MACHIAVELLI, The Prince" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“80% of the results come from 20% of the effort and time." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“So red teaming is: You take people who aren’t wedded to the plan and [ask them,] ‘How would you disrupt this plan or how would you defeat this plan?’ If you have a very thoughtful red team, you’ll produce stunning results." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The New Rich ( NR) are those who abandon the deferred-life plan and create luxury lifestyles in the present using the currency of the New Rich: time and mobility." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“There are two synergistic approaches for increasing productivity that are inversions of each other:1. Limit tasks to the important to shorten work time (80/20).2. Shorten work time to limit tasks to the important (Parkinson's Law).The best solution is to use both together: Identify the few critical tasks that contribute most to income and schedule them with very short and clear deadlines." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“At least three time per day at scheduled times, he had to ask himself the following question: Am I being productive or just active? Charney captured the essence of this with less-abstract wording: Am I inventing things to do to avoid the important? He eliminated all of the activities he used as crutches and began to focus on demonstrating results instead of showing dedication. Dedication is often just meaningless work in disguise. Be ruthless and cut the fat." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Parkinson’s Law dictates that a task will swell in (perceived) importance and complexity in relation to the time allotted for its completion." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Any man who reads too much and uses his own brain too little falls into lazy habits of thinking. —ALBERT EINSTEIN" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“we end up spending (as Thoreau put it) “the best part of one’s life earning money in order to enjoy a questionable liberty during the least valuable part of it.” We’d love to drop all and explore the world outside, we tell ourselves, but the time never seems right. Thus, given an unlimited amount of choices, we make none. Settling into our lives, we get so obsessed with holding on to our domestic certainties that we forget why we desired them in the first place." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Americans who travel abroad for the first time are often shocked to discover that, despite all the progress that has been made in the last 30 years, many foreign people still speak in foreign languages. —DAVE BARRY" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In any situation in life, you only have three options. You always have three options. You can change it, you can accept it, or you can leave it. What is not a good option is to sit around wishing you would change it but not changing it, wishing you would leave it but not leaving it, and not accepting it. It’s that struggle, that aversion, that is responsible for most of our misery. The phrase that I probably use the most to myself in my head is just one word: accept." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Strauss, Neil: “‘The trouble with most of us is that we would rather be ruined by praise than saved by criticism.’—Norman Vincent Peale" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Someday” is a disease that will take your dreams to the grave with you. Pro and con lists are just as bad. If it’s important to you and you want to do it “eventually,” just do it and correct course along the way." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Problems, as a rule, solve themselves or disappear if you remove yourself as an information bottleneck and empower others." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“you can use positive constraints to increase perceived free will and results. Freeform days might seem idyllic, but they are paralyzing due to continual paradox of choice (e.g., “What should I do now?”) and decision fatigue (e.g., “What should I have for breakfast?”). In" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If the best in the world are stretching their asses off in order to get strong, why aren’t you?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What you do is more important than how you do everything else, and doing something well does not make it important." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“courage was more important than confidence. When you are operating out of courage, you are saying that no matter how you feel about yourself or your opportunities or the outcome, you are going to take a risk and take a step toward what you want. You are not waiting for the confidence to mysteriously arrive. I now believe that confidence is achieved through repeated success at any endeavor." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you think you are too small to be effective, you have never been in the dark with a mosquito.”—Betty Reese" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Law 6: When forced to compromise, ask for more. Law 7: If you can’t win, change the rules. Law 8: If you can’t change the rules, then ignore them. Law 11: “No” simply means begin again at one level higher. Law 13: When in doubt: THINK. Law 16: The faster you move, the slower time passes, the longer you live. Law 17: The best way to predict the future is to create it yourself. (adopted from Alan Kay) Law 19: You get what you incentivize. Law 22: The day before something is a breakthrough, it’s a crazy idea. Law 26: If you can’t measure it, you can’t improve it." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“the key to not feeling rushed is remembering that lack of time is actually lack of priorities. Take time to stop and smell the roses, or—in this case—to count the pea pods." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Happiness is a choice you make and a skill you develop." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The best defense is a good offense. —DAN GABLE, Olympic gold medalist in wrestling and the most successful coach in history; personal record: 299–6–3, with 182 pins" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Anyone who lives within their means suffers from a lack of imagination. —OSCAR WILDE," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“More than 80% of the interviewees have some form of daily mindfulness or meditation practice" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Many students come to me full of wonderful intentions hoping to change the world; they plan to spend their time helping the poor and disadvantaged. I tell them to first graduate and make a lot of money, and only then figure out how best to help those in need. Too often students can’t meaningfully help the disadvantaged now, even if it makes them feel good for trying to. I have seen so many former students in their late 30s and 40s struggling to make ends meet. They spent their time in college doing good rather than building their careers and futures. I warn students today to be careful how they use their precious time and to think carefully about when is the right time to help. It’s a well-worn cliché, but you have to help yourself before you help others. This is too often lost on idealistic students. I am often asked whether one should" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Good Stories Always Beat Good Spreadsheets” “Whether you are raising money, pitching your product to customers, selling the company, or recruiting employees, never forget that underneath all the math and the MBA bullshit talk, we are all still emotionally driven human beings. We want to attach ourselves to narratives. We don’t act because of equations. We follow our beliefs. We get behind leaders who stir our feelings. In the early days of your venture, if you find someone diving too deep into the numbers, that means they are struggling to find a reason to deeply care about you." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Charlie’s Almanack, Influence, and Man’s Search for Meaning, among others The habit of listening to single songs on repeat for focus (page 507) Nearly everyone has done some form of “spec” work (completing projects on their own time and dime, then submitting them to prospective buyers) The belief that “failure is not durable” (see Robert Rodriguez, page 628) or variants thereof Almost every guest has been able to take obvious “weaknesses” and turn them into huge competitive advantages (see Arnold Schwarzenegger, page 176)" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Adapt what is useful, reject what is useless, and add what is specifically your own." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What we fear doing most is usually what we most need to do. As" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The very word ‘success’ has become contaminated by our ideas of someone extraordinary, very rich, etc., and that’s really unhelpful…. Ultimately, to be properly successful is to be at peace as well." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Tomorrow becomes never. No matter how small the task, take the first step now!" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Our point is, if you try to approach every problem with your moral compass, first and foremost, you’re going to make a lot of mistakes. You’re going to exclude a lot of possible good solutions. You’re going to assume you know a lot of things, when in fact you don’t, and you’re not going to be a good partner in reaching a solution with other people who don’t happen to see the world the way you do." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Top academic institutions are wonderful, but there are unrecognized benefits to not coming out of one. Grads from top schools are funneled into high-income 80-hour-per-week jobs, and 15–30 years of soul-crushing work has been accepted as the default path. How do I know? I’ve been there and" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Remember: There is a direct correlation between an increased sphere of comfort and getting what you want." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Busy” = Out of Control “Every time people contact me, they say, ‘Look, I know you must be incredibly busy . . .’ and I always think, ‘No, I’m not.’ Because I’m in control of my time. I’m on top of it. ‘Busy,’ to me, seems to imply ‘out of control.’ Like, ‘Oh my God, I’m so busy. I don’t have any time for this shit!’ To me, that sounds like a person who’s got no control over their life.” TF: Lack of time is lack of priorities. If I’m “busy,” it is because I’ve made choices that put me in that position, so I’ve forbidden myself to reply to “How are you?” with “Busy.” I have no right to complain. Instead, if I’m too busy, it’s a cue to reexamine my systems and rules." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The wisdom of life consists in the elimination of non-essentials.” —Lin Yutang" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“most people spend most of their time on defense, in reactive mode, in playing with the cards they got instead of moving to a different table with different cards. Instead" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Remembering that you are going to die is the best way I know to avoid the trap of thinking you have something to lose." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“There’s no difference between a pessimist who says, “Oh, it’s hopeless, so don’t bother doing anything,” and an optimist who says, “Don’t bother doing anything, it’s going to turn out fine anyway.” Either way, nothing happens. —YVON CHOUINARD,7 founder of Patagonia" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“My maxim comes from Samuel Beckett, a personal hero of mine: ‘Ever tried. Ever failed. No matter. Try again. Fail again. Fail better.’ You won’t believe what you can accomplish by attempting the impossible with the courage to repeatedly fail better." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Adults are always asking kids what they want to be when they grow up because they are looking for ideas. —PAULA POUNDSTONE" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Ben Franklin’s excellent advice: “If you would not be forgotten as soon as you are dead and rotten, either write things worth reading, or do things worth writing." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Parkinson’s Law dictates that a task will swell in (perceived) importance and complexity in relation to the time allotted for its completion. It" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Which philosophers would Alain suggest for practical living? Alain’s list overlaps nearly 100% with my own: Epicurus, Seneca, Marcus Aurelius, Plato, Michel de Montaigne, Arthur Schopenhauer, Friedrich Nietzsche, and Bertrand Russell. * Most-gifted or recommended books? The Unbearable Lightness of Being by Milan Kundera, Essays of Michel de Montaigne. * Favorite documentary The Up series: This ongoing series is filmed in the UK, and revisits the same group of people every 7 years. It started with their 7th birthdays (Seven Up!) and continues up to present day, when they are in their 50s. Subjects were picked from a wide variety of social backgrounds. Alain calls these very undramatic and quietly powerful films “probably the best documentary that exists.” TF: This is also the favorite of Stephen Dubner on page 574. Stephen says, “If you are at all interested in any kind of science or sociology, or human decision-making, or nurture versus nature, it is the best thing ever.” * Advice to your 30-year-old self? “I would have said, ‘Appreciate what’s good about this moment. Don’t always think that you’re on a permanent journey. Stop and enjoy the view.’ . . . I always had this assumption that if you appreciate the moment, you’re weakening your resolve to improve your circumstances. That’s not true, but I think when you’re young, it’s sort of associated with that. . . . I had people around me who’d say things like, ‘Oh, a flower, nice.’ A little part of me was thinking, ‘You absolute loser. You’ve taken time to appreciate a flower? Do you not have bigger plans? I mean, this the limit of your ambition?’ and when life’s knocked you around a bit and when you’ve seen a few things, and time has happened and you’ve got some years under your belt, you start to think more highly of modest things like flowers and a pretty sky, or just a morning where nothing’s wrong and everyone’s been pretty nice to everyone else. . . . Fortune can do anything with us. We are very fragile creatures. You only need to tap us or hit us in slightly the wrong place. . . . You only have to push us a little bit, and we crack very easily, whether that’s the pressure of disgrace or physical illness, financial pressure, etc. It doesn’t take very much. So, we do have to appreciate every day that goes by without a major disaster." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The miracle is not to walk on water. The miracle is to walk on the green earth, dwelling deeply in the present moment and feeling truly alive. —THICH NHAT HANH" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Options - the ability to choose - is real power. This book is all about how to see and create those options with the least effort and cost. It just so happens, paradoxically, that you can make more money - a lot more money - by doing half of what you are doing now." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What are three tests or practices from the military that civilians could use to help develop mental toughness?”: STAN: “The first is to push yourself harder than you believe you’re capable of. You’ll find new depth inside yourself. The second is to put yourself in groups who share difficulties, discomfort. We used to call it ‘shared privation.’ You’ll find that when you have been through that kind of difficult environment, that you feel more strongly about that which you’re committed to. And finally, create some fear and make individuals overcome it." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Life is too short to be small.      —BENJAMIN DISRAELI" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“One of the most universal causes of self-doubt and depression: trying to impress people you don't like. Stressing to impress is fine, but do it for the right people - those you want to emulate." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Don’t confuse the complex with the difficult. Most situations are simple—many are just emotionally difficult to act upon." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I'm often asked how I define success. It's an overused term, but I fundamentally view this elusive beast as a combination of two things - achievement and appreciation. One isn't enough: Achievement without appreciation makes you ambitious but miserable.Appreciation without achievement makes you unambitious but happy." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The more we associate experience with cash value, the more we think that money is what we need to live. And the more we associate money with life, the more we convince ourselves that we’re too poor to buy our freedom. With" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Dreamline Questions:What are you good at?What could you be the best at?What makes you happy?What excites you?What makes you feel accomplished and good about yourself?What are you most proud of having accomplished in your life? Can you repeat this or further develop it?What do you enjoy sharing or experiencing with other people?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“you are insecure, guess what? The rest of the world is, too. Do not overestimate the competition and underestimate yourself. You are better than you think." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Nobody can give you freedom. Nobody can give you equality or justice or anything. If you’re a man, you take it. —MALCOLM X, Malcolm X Speaks" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The first is the result of a decision to act—to do something. This type of mistake is made with incomplete information, as it’s impossible to have all the facts beforehand. This is to be encouraged. Fortune favors the bold. The second is the result of a decision of sloth—to not do something—wherein we refuse to change a bad situation out of fear despite having all the facts. This is how learning experiences become terminal punishments, bad relationships become bad marriages, and poor job choices become lifelong prison sentences." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Learn to slow down. Get lost intentionally. Observe how you judge both yourself and those around you." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“A goal without real consequences is wishful thinking. Good follow-through doesn't depend on the right intentions. It depends on the right incentives." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“No one owes you anything." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What gets measured gets managed. —PETER DRUCKER, management theorist, author" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“everything changes. Snow becomes water. It’s beautiful because it changes. Things are fleeting. It felt so beautiful to be part of this weird world in that moment. I felt part of the world again, rather than removed from it. It" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Develop the strength to do bold things, not the strength to suffer." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“All those artists and writers who bemoan how hard the work is, and oh, how tedious the creative process, and oh, what a tortured genius they are. Don’t buy into it. . . . As if difficulty and struggle and torture somehow confer seriousness upon your chosen work. Doing great work simply because you love it, sounds, in our culture, somehow flimsy, and that’s a failing of our culture, not of the choice of work that artists make.” This" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The really efficient laborer will be found not to crowd his day with work, but will saunter to his task surrounded by a wide halo of ease and leisure. There will be a wide margin for relaxation to his day. He is only earnest to secure the kernels of time, and does not exaggerate the value of the husk.’ Think" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Being overwhelmed is often as unproductive as doing nothing, and is far more unpleasant. Being selective—doing less—is the path of the productive." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“You don’t need more recipes. You need to learn to cook without them." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“think of problems as gold mines. The world’s biggest problems are the world’s biggest business opportunities." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Emphasize strengths, don't fix weaknesses." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Most good chefs believe there is no such thing as too much garlic." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The Shortness of Life: Seneca on Busyness and the Art of Living Wide Rather Than Living Long” “How to Find Your Purpose and Do What You Love” “9 Learnings from 9 Years of Brain Pickings” Anything about Alan Watts: “Alan Watts has changed my life. I’ve written about him quite a bit." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I’ve realized that instead of following the trends, you want to identify the trends but not follow them. It’s good to recognize trends, but if you follow them, you get sucked into them, and then you also fall with the trend." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Write about a time when you realized you were mistaken. ► Write about a lesson you learned the hard way. ► Write about a time you were inappropriately dressed for the occasion. ► Write about something you lost that you’ll never get back. ► Write about a time when you knew you’d done the right thing. ► Write about something you don’t remember. ► Write about your darkest teacher. ► Write about a memory of a physical injury. ► Write about when you knew it was over. ► Write about being loved. ► Write about what you were really thinking. ► Write about how you found your way back. ► Write about the kindness of strangers. ► Write about why you could not do it. ► Write about why you did." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What are bad recommendations you hear in your profession or area of expertise? If you put ten people in a room and they have to choose an ice cream flavor, they’re gonna arrive at vanilla. There is always constant pressure to conform. But originality only happens on the edges of reality. And working on that line is always dangerous because it’s only a short step to disconnected insanity. So resist temptations and advice to play to the middle. The best work always comes from pushing the edge." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It is fatal to know too much at the outcome: boredom comes as quickly to the traveler who knows his route as to the novelist who is overcertain of his plot. —PAUL THEROUX, To the Ends of the Earth" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“For a long time, I’ve known that the key to getting started down the path of being remarkable in anything is to simply act with the intention of being remarkable." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What will the people who don’t hold you in highest regard say about you?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“People think it must be fun to be a super genius, but they don’t realize how hard it is to put up with all the idiots in the world. —CALVIN, from Calvin and Hobbes" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What we really need to do, to design, is look at the extremes. The weakest, or the person with arthritis, or the athlete, or the strongest, the fastest person, because if we understand what the extremes are, the middle will take care of itself.” In other words, the extremes inform the mean, but not vice versa." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“But not having cable or the Internet turns out to be cheaper than having them. And nature is still technically free, even if human beings have tried to make access to it expensive. Time and quiet should not be luxury items." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you could have a gigantic billboard anywhere with anything on it, what would it say and why? “Discipline equals freedom.” Everyone wants freedom. We want to be physically free and mentally free. We want to be financially free and we want more free time. But where does that freedom come from? How do we get it? The answer is the opposite of freedom. The answer is discipline. You want more free time? Follow a more disciplined time-management system. You want financial freedom? Implement long-term financial discipline in your life. Do you want to be physically free to move how you want, and to be free from many health issues caused by poor lifestyle choices? Then you have to have the discipline to eat healthy food and consistently work out. We all want freedom. Discipline is the only way to get it. What is one of the best or most worthwhile investments you’ve ever made? Ever since I have had a home with a garage, I have had a gym in my garage. It is one of the most important factors in allowing me to work out every day regardless of the chaos and mayhem life delivers. The convenience of being able to work out any time, without packing a gym bag, driving, parking, changing, then waiting for equipment . . . The home gym is there for you. No driving. No parking. No little locker to cram your gear into. In your home gym, you never wait for equipment. It is waiting for you. Always. And, perhaps most important: You can listen to whatever music you want, as loud as you want. GET SOME." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“And if all else fails, I try to obey this message I got in a Chinese fortune cookie (which I have since taped to my laptop): “Avoid compulsively making things worse." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Life punishes the vague wish and rewards the specific ask. After all, conscious thinking is largely asking and answering questions in your own head." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I wish I would have known that there was no need to wait. I went to college. I went to law school. I worked in law and banking, though not for terribly long. But not until I started PayPal did I fully realize that you don’t have to wait to start something.So if you’re planning to do something with your life, if you have a 10-year plan of how to get there, you should ask: Why can’t you do this in 6 months? Sometimes, you have to actually go through the complex, 10-year trajectory. But it’s at least worth asking whether that’s the story you’re telling yourself, or whether that’s the reality." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I overhear Bobby Flay say, “Take risks and you’ll get the payoffs. Learn from your mistakes until you succeed. It’s that simple.” I" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The existential vacuum manifests itself mainly in a state of boredom. —VIKTOR FRANKL, Auschwitz survivor and founder of Logotherapy, Man’s Search for Meaning" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“People say that what we are seeking is a meaning for life. I don’t think this is what we’re really seeking. I think what we’re seeking is an experience of being alive. —JOSEPH CAMPBELL, The Power of Myth" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“These individuals have riches just as we say that we ‘have a fever,’ when really the fever has us.” –Seneca Roman Stoic philosopher, famed playwright" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“it’s almost like, sometimes, I’m not a participant in my own life. I’m an observer of that guy who’s doing it. So, if I’m having a conversation with you and we’re trying to discuss a point, I’m watching and saying [to myself], ‘Wait, am I being too emotional right now? Wait a second, look at him. What is his reaction?’ Because I’m not reading you correctly if I’m seeing you through my own emotion or ego. I can’t really see what you’re thinking if I’m emotional. But if I step out of that, now I can see the real you and assess if you are getting angry, or if your ego is getting hurt, or if you’re about to cave because you’re just fed up with me. Whereas, if I’m raging in my own head, I might miss all of that. So being able to detach as a leader is critical." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Love yourself . . . You’ve got to love yourself before you can love others. Without it, nothing productive is going to happen, and we can all bang our heads on the wall." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It is no measure of health to be well adjusted to a profoundly sick society.” —J. Krishnamurti" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Look creatively at your resume, work experience, physical habits, and hobbies and compile a list of all the groups, past and present, that you can associate yourself with." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In this book, you’ll naturally look for common habits and recommendations, and you should. Here are a few patterns, some odder than others: More than 80% of the interviewees have some form of daily mindfulness or meditation practice A surprising number of males (not females) over 45 never eat breakfast, or eat only the scantiest of fare (e.g., Laird Hamilton, page 92; Malcolm Gladwell, page 572; General Stanley McChrystal, page 435) Many use the ChiliPad device for cooling at bedtime Rave reviews of the books Sapiens, Poor" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“His Message at a High School Commencement “You guys are programmed to succeed. The hardest thing you’re ever going to do in your life is fail at something, and if you don’t start failing at things, you will not live a full life. You’ll be living a cautious life on a path that you know is pretty much guaranteed to more or less work. That’s not getting the most out of this amazing world we live in. You have to do the hardest thing that you have not been prepared for in this school or any school: You have to be prepared to fail. That’s how you’re going to expand yourself and grow. As you work through that process of failure and learning, you will really deepen into the human being you’re capable of being." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“the tricky thing about life is, on the one hand having the courage to enter into things that are unfamiliar, but also having the wisdom to stop exploring when you’ve found something worth sticking around for. That is true of a place, of a person, of a vocation. Balancing those two things—the courage of exploring and the commitment to staying—and getting the ratio right is very hard. I think my 70-year-old self would say: ‘Be careful that you don’t err on one side or the other, because you have an ill-conceived idea of who you are." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“No newspapers, magazines, audiobooks, or nonmusic radio. Music is permitted at all times. No news websites whatsoever (cnn.com, drudgereport.com, msn.com,10 etc.). No television at all, except for one hour of pleasure viewing each evening. No reading books, except for this book and one hour of fiction11 pleasure reading prior to bed. No web surfing at the desk unless it is necessary to complete a work task for that day. Necessary means necessary, not nice to have." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you are distressed by anything external, the pain is not due to the thing itself, but to your estimate of it; and this you have the power to revoke at any moment.” –Marcus Aurelius" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“All 250 + episodes to date can be found at tim.blog/ podcast and itunes.com/ timferriss Jamie Foxx on Workout Routines, Success Habits, and Untold Hollywood Stories (# 124)—tim.blog/ jamie The Scariest Navy SEAL I’ve Ever Met . . . and What He Taught Me (# 107)—tim.blog/ jocko Arnold Schwarzenegger on Psychological Warfare (and Much More) (# 60)—tim.blog/ arnold Dom D’Agostino on Fasting, Ketosis, and the End of Cancer (# 117)—tim.blog/ dom2 Tony Robbins on Morning Routines, Peak Performance, and Mastering Money (# 37)—tim.blog/ tony How to Design a Life—Debbie Millman (# 214)—tim.blog/ debbie Tony Robbins—On Achievement Versus Fulfillment (# 178)—tim.blog/ tony2 Kevin Rose (# 1)—tim.blog/ kevinrose [If you want to hear how bad a first episode can be, this delivers. Drunkenness didn’t help matters.] Charles Poliquin on Strength Training, Shredding Body Fat, and Increasing Testosterone and Sex Drive (# 91)—tim.blog/ charles Mr. Money Mustache—Living Beautifully on $ 25–27K Per Year (# 221)—tim.blog/ mustache Lessons from Warren Buffett, Bobby Fischer, and Other Outliers (# 219)—tim.blog/ buffett Exploring Smart Drugs, Fasting, and Fat Loss—Dr. Rhonda Patrick (# 237)—tim.blog/ rhonda 5 Morning Rituals That Help Me Win the Day (# 105)—tim.blog/ rituals David Heinemeier Hansson: The Power of Being Outspoken (# 195)—tim.blog/ dhh Lessons from Geniuses, Billionaires, and Tinkerers (# 173)—tim.blog/ chrisyoung The Secrets of Gymnastic Strength Training (# 158)—tim.blog/ gst Becoming the Best Version of You (# 210)—tim.blog/ best The Science of Strength and Simplicity with Pavel Tsatsouline (# 55)—tim.blog/ pavel Tony Robbins (Part 2) on Morning Routines, Peak Performance, and Mastering Money (# 38)—tim.blog/ tony How Seth Godin Manages His Life—Rules, Principles, and Obsessions (# 138)—tim.blog/ seth The Relationship Episode: Sex, Love, Polyamory, Marriage, and More (with Esther Perel) (# 241)—tim.blog/ esther The Quiet Master of Cryptocurrency—Nick Szabo (# 244)—tim.blog/ crypto Joshua Waitzkin (# 2)—tim.blog/ josh The Benevolent Dictator of the Internet, Matt Mullenweg (# 61)—tim.blog/ matt Ricardo Semler—The Seven-Day Weekend and How to Break the Rules (# 229)—tim.blog/ ricardo" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I’m not going to worry about losing one friend if I have a hundred, but if I have two friends I’m really going to be worried. I’m not going to worry about losing my job because my one boss is going to fire me, because I have thousands of bosses at newspapers everywhere. One of the ways to not worry about stress is to eliminate it. I don’t worry about my stock picks because I have a diversified portfolio. Diversification works in almost every area of your life to reduce your stress." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you must play, decide on three things at the start: the rules of the game, the stakes, and the quitting time. —CHINESE PROVERB" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Most information is time-consuming, negative, irrelevant to your goals, and outside of your influence." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Busy is a decision.” Here’s why: Of the many, many excuses people use to rationalize why they can’t do something, the excuse “I am too busy” is not only the most inauthentic, it is also the laziest. I don’t believe in “too busy.” Like I said, busy is a decision. We do the things we want to do, period. If we say we are too busy, it is shorthand for “not important enough." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Did you eat half an Oreo cookie? No problem. If you’re a 220-pound male, you just need to climb 27 flights of stairs to burn it off." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Learn the rules like a pro, so you can break them like an artist.” —Pablo Picasso" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I eventually learned to cook by focusing on two principles. Both of them apply to all learning and will be your constant companions throughout this book: failure points and the margin of safety." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“1. She switched her breakfast to a high-protein meal (at least 30% protein) à la the Slow-Carb Diet. Her favorite: spinach, black beans, and egg whites (one-third of a carton of Eggology liquid egg whites) with cayenne pepper flakes. 2. Three times a week (Monday, Wednesday, Friday), she performed a simple sequence of three exercises prior to breakfast, all of which are illustrated in the next few pages: One set: 20 two-legged glute activation raises from the floor One set: 15 flying dogs, one set each side One set: 50 kettlebell swings (For you: start with a weight that allows you to do 20 perfect repetitions but no more than 30. In other words, start with a weight, no less than 20 pounds, that you can “grow into." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Being busy is a form of laziness—lazy thinking and indiscriminate action." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“sometimes having no experience is a huge advantage. Age doesn’t matter; an open mind does." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you want great mentors, you have to become a great mentee. If you want to lead, you have to first learn to follow. Ben" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“When you have the best and tastiest ingredients, you can cook very simply and the food will be extraordinary because it tastes like what it is." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“We create stress for ourselves because you feel like you have to do it. You have to. I don’t feel that anymore. —OPRAH WINFREY, actress and talk-show host, The Oprah Winfrey Show" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Action may not always bring happiness, but there is no happiness without action. —BENJAMIN DISRAELI, former British Prime Minister" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Sparta, Rome, the knights of Europe, the samurai . . . worshipped strength. Because it is strength that makes all other values possible." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you're confused about life, you're not alone. There are almost seven billion of us. This isn't a problem, of course, once you realize that life is neither a problem to be solved nor a game to be won. If you are too intent on making the pieces of a nonexistent puzzle fit, you miss out on all the real fun. The heaviness of success-chasing can be replaced with a serendipitous lightness when you recognize that the only rules and limits are those we set for ourselves." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“As Tony Robbins would say, “The quality of your questions determines the quality of your life." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Sometimes, you think you have to figure out your life’s purpose, but you really just need some macadamia nuts and a cold fucking shower." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Give me six hours to chop down a tree and I’ll spend the first four sharpening the axe.” —Abraham Lincoln" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“True Films On TrueFilms.com, Kevin has reviewed the best documentaries he’s seen over decades. The counterpart book series, True Films 3.0, contains the 200 documentaries he feels you should see before you die, and it is available as a PDF on kk.org. Three docs we both love are The King of Kong, Man on Wire, and A State of Mind." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The Tail End” by Tim Urban on the Wait But Why blog—if you only read one article this month, make it that one. It" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Losing makes you think in ways victories can’t. You begin asking questions instead of feeling like you have the answers. Questions open up the doors to so many possibilities." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If the recipe sucks, it doesn’t matter how good a cook you are." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I wish I would have known that there was no need to wait. I went to college. I went to law school. I worked in law and banking, though not for terribly long. But not until I started PayPal did I fully realize that you don’t have to wait to start something. So if you’re planning to do something with your life, if you have a 10-year plan of how to get there, you should ask: Why can’t you do this in 6 months? Sometimes, you have to actually go through the complex, 10-year trajectory. But it’s at least worth asking whether that’s the story you’re telling yourself, or whether that’s the reality." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Too much, too many, and too often of what you want becomes what you don’t want." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Poisonous people do not deserve your time. To think otherwise is masochistic. The best way to approach a potential break is simple: Confide in them honestly but tactfully and explain your concerns. If they bite back, your conclusions have been confirmed. Drop them like any other bad habit. If they promise to change, first spend at least two weeks apart to develop other positive influences in your life and diminish psychological dependency. The next trial period should have a set duration and consist of pass-or-fail criteria. If this approach is too confrontational for you, just politely refuse to interact with them. Be in the middle of something when the call comes, and have a prior commitment when the invitation to hang out comes. Once you see the benefits of decreased time with these people, it will be easier to stop communication altogether." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Life punishes the vague wish and rewards the specific ask." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Time is wasted because there is so much time available." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Refuse to accept partial completeness." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Out of clutter, find simplicity. —Albert Einstein" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Life shrinks or expands in proportion to one’s courage.” –Anaïs Nin" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Ravikant, Naval: “‘Desire is a contract that you make with yourself to be unhappy until you get what you want’ (paraphrased" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The worst that could happen wasn’t crashing and burning, it was accepting terminal boredom as a tolerable status quo." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The struggle ends when the gratitude begins." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“there has never been a better time for testing the uncommon." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Morality is simply the attitude we adopt toward people we personally dislike.      —OSCAR WILDE" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Einstein said, “If I had an hour to solve a problem, I’d spend 55 minutes thinking about the problem and five minutes thinking about solutions." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Make your peace with the fact that saying ‘no’ often requires trading popularity for respect.” —Greg McKeown, Essentialism" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“This is the best thing you’re ever going to learn in SEAL training.’ We were excited to learn what it was, and he told us that when you’re a leader, people are going to mimic your behavior, at a minimum. . . . It’s a guarantee. So here’s the key piece of advice, this is all he said: ‘Calm is contagious." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Learn the rules like a pro, so you can break them like an artist. —PABLO PICASSO" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Kids don’t do what you say. They do what they see. How you live your life is their example." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What advice would you give to a smart, driven college student about to enter the “real world”? What advice should they ignore? [My advice:] Pursue every project, idea, or industry that genuinely lights you up, regardless of how unrelated each idea is, or how unrealistic a long-term career in that field might now seem. You’ll connect the dots later. Work your fucking ass off and develop a reputation for going above and beyond in all situations. Do whatever it takes to earn enough money, so that you can go all in on experiences or learning opportunities that put you in close proximity to people you admire, because proximity is power. Show up in every moment like you’re meant to be there, because your energy precedes anything you could possibly say. Ignore the advice to specialize in one thing, unless you’re certain that’s how you want to roll. Ignore giving a shit about what other people think about your career choices or what you do for a living—especially if what you do for a living funds your career choices. Ignore the impulse to dial down your enthusiasm for fear it’ll be perceived as unprofessional. And especially for women, ignore societal and familial pressures to get married and have kids." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Doing less meaningless work, so that you can focus on things of greater personal importance, is NOT laziness." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“As a builder, as an entrepreneur, how can you create something for someone else if you don’t have even enough glancing familiarity with them to imagine the world through their eyes?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you can’t see yourself working with someone for life, don’t work with them for a day." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I have had so many spectacular failures, but looking back, I can see how each of them led me a little closer to doing what I actually wanted to do. Years before I was ready to write a book of my own, I bungled two opportunities to co-write cookbooks with other people. These mistakes haunted me, and I was sure I’d never get to write another book. But I waited, and I persisted, and after 17 years I wrote the book I’d always dreamt of." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“• Must-watch documentary The Gatekeepers (2012)" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Mastery is a journey, not a destination. True masters never believe they have attained mastery. There is always more to be learned and greater skill to be developed." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“As chef Mehdi Chellaoui says, “I use lemon like I use salt.” Mario Batali would agree: if something is missing, it’s probably acid." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Exact numbers aren’t needed to realize that we spend too much time with those who poison us with pessimism, sloth, and low expectations of themselves and the world. It is often the case that you have to fire certain friends or retire from particular social circles to have the life you want. This isn’t being mean; it is being practical. Poisonous people do not deserve your time. To think otherwise is masochistic." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“So much of the job is more emotion and ‘heart work’ than it is ‘head work.’ The head comes in after, to look at what the heart has presented and to organize it. But the initial inspiration comes from a different place, and it’s not the head, and it’s not an intellectual activity." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I can’t give you a surefire formula for success, but I can give you a formula for failure: try to please everybody all the time. —HERBERT BAYARD SWOPE, American editor and journalist; first recipient of the Pulitzer Prize" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The disease of our times is that we live on the surface. We’re like the Platte River, a mile wide and an inch deep. I always say, “If you want to become a billionaire, invent something that will allow people to indulge their own Resistance.” Somebody did invent it. It’s called the Internet. Social media. That wonderland where we can flit from one superficial, jerkoff distraction to another, always remaining on the surface, never" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“even. By the time things were done, I was exhausted and depressed and just really, really unhappy. We all were. But it didn’t have to be that way. That experience taught me to take agency in my own professional narratives, and that endings don’t have to be failures, especially when you choose to end a project or shut down a business. Shortly after the restaurant closed, I started a food market as a small side project, and it ended up being wildly successful. I had more press and customers than I could handle. I had investors clamoring to get in on the action. But all I wanted to do was write. I didn’t want to run a food market, and since my name was all over it, I didn’t want to hand it off to anyone else, either. So I chose to close the market on my own terms, and I made sure that everyone knew it. It was such a positive contrast to the harsh experience of closing the restaurant. I’ve learned to envision the ideal end to any project before I begin it now—even the best gigs don’t last forever. Nor should they." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I believe that the key to self-sufficiency is breaking free of the mindset that someone, somewhere, owes you something or will come to your rescue." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Many a false step was made by standing still. —FORTUNE COOKIE" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Someday is a disease that will take your dreams to the grave with you." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Tim’s TED Talk, “Inside the Mind of a Master Procrastinator," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I’ve even been known to go to bed while my guests are still partying." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It’s always the hard part that creates value." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Have you outgrown your systems or beliefs? Is it time that you upgraded? Or, on a personal level, as Jerry Colonna, executive coach to some of the biggest tech stars in Silicon Valley, would ask: “How are you complicit in creating the conditions you say you don’t want?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“There is just less competition for bigger goals." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Does history record any case in which the majority was right? —Robert Heinlein" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“As I detailed in my TED Talk, I think we all have two main characters in our heads: a rational decision-maker (the adult in your head) and an instant gratification monkey (the child in your head who doesn’t care about consequences and just wants to maximize the ease and pleasure of the current moment). For me, these two are in a constant battle, and the monkey usually wins. But I’ve found that if I turn life into a yin-yang situation—e.g., “work till 6 today, then no work till tomorrow”—it’s much easier to control the monkey in the work period. Knowing he has something fun to look forward to later makes him much more likely to cooperate. In my old system, the monkey was in a constant state of rebellion against a system that never really gave him any dedicated time." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The means of learning are abundant—it’s the desire to learn that’s scarce." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“stick to what excites you no matter what people say. It’s your life, live it the way you know is right for you." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Don’t pay any attention to what they write about you, just measure it in inches.”—Andy Warhol" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Things in Excess Become Their Opposite. It is possible to have too much of a good thing. In excess, most endeavors and possessions take on the characteristics of their opposite. Thus: Pacifists become militants. Freedom fighters become tyrants. Blessings become curses. Help becomes hindrance. More becomes less.4 Too much, too many, and too often of what you want becomes what you don’t want." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The Purpose of Life Is a Life of Purpose.” This is Stan’s answer to “If you could put a billboard anywhere and write anything on it, what would it say?” It is a quote from Robert Byrne." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Sometimes Cookies Are the Best Medicine For hospice patients at death’s door, big existential conversations aren’t always the needed medicine. One oddly powerful alternative is baking cookies together. “Just the basic joy of smelling a cookie. It smells freaking great. [And it’s like the snowball.] You’re rewarded for being alive and in the moment. Smelling a cookie is not on behalf of some future state. It’s great in the moment, by itself, on behalf of nothing. And this is another thing back to art. Art for its own sake. Art and music and dance. Part of its poignancy is its purposelessness, and just delighting in a wacky fact of perhaps a meaningless universe and how remarkable that is. One way for all of us to live until we’re actually dead is to prize those little moments." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Dreamlining is so named because it applies timelines to what most would consider dreams." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“My perfect storm was nothing permanent. But of course it's far from the last storm I'll face. There will be many more. The key is building fires where you can. Warm yourself up as you wait for the tempest to pass. These fires, the routines, habits, relationships, and coping mechanisms you built, help you to look at the rain and see fertilizer instead of a flood. If you want the lushest green of life and you do, the grey is part of the natural cycle. You are not flawed. You're a human. You have gifts to share with the world and when the darkness comes, when you're fighting the demons, just remember. I'm right there fighting with you. You're not alone. The gems I found were forged in the struggle.Never, ever give up." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Named must your fear be before banish it you can. —YODA, from Star Wars:" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“People think focus means saying yes to the thing you’ve got to focus on. But that’s not what it means at all. It means saying no to the hundred other good ideas that there are. You have to pick carefully. I’m actually as proud of the things we haven’t done as the things I have done. Innovation is saying no to 1,000 things.” –Steve Jobs" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you don’t make mistakes, you’re not working on hard enough problems. And that’s a big mistake." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The concept of lifestyle design as a replacement for multi-staged career planning is sound." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What we fear doing most is usually what we most need to do. As I have heard said, a person’s success in life can usually be measured by the number of uncomfortable conversations he or she is willing to have. Resolve to do one thing every day that you fear. I got into this habit by attempting to contact celebrities and famous businesspeople for advice." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“To quote the industrial statistician George Box: “Every model is wrong, but some are useful." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Believe it or not, it is not only possible to accomplish more by doing less, it is mandatory. Enter the world of elimination." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“the goal is to connect with your own self, your own soul." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Being busy is a form of laziness—lazy thinking and indiscriminate action. Being overwhelmed is often as unproductive as doing nothing, and is far more unpleasant. Being selective—doing less—is the path of the productive. Focus on the important few and ignore the rest." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Proteins *Egg whites with 1–2 whole eggs for flavor (or, if organic, 2–5 whole eggs, including yolks) *Chicken breast or thigh *Beef (preferably grass-fed) *Fish Pork Legumes *Lentils (also called “dal” or “daal”) *Black beans Pinto beans Red beans Soybeans Vegetables *Spinach *Mixed vegetables (including broccoli, cauliflower, or any other cruciferous vegetables) *Sauerkraut, kimchee (full explanation of these later in “Damage Control”) Asparagus Peas Broccoli Green beans" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you have a strong informed opinion, don’t keep it to yourself. Try to help people and make the world a better place. If you strive to do anything remotely interesting, just expect a small percentage of the population to always find a way to take it personally. F*ck ’em. There are no statues erected to critics." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Person A: What happens when Bill Gates walks into a bar of 55 people? Person B: I don’t know. What? Person A: The “average” net worth jumps to more than a billion dollars!2" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Follow your intellectual curiosity over whatever is “hot” right now. If your curiosity ever leads you to a place where society eventually wants to go, you’ll get paid extremely well." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“sometimes it pays to model the outliers, not flatten them into averages. This isn’t limited to business." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Aristotle had it right, but he was missing a number: “We are what we do repeatedly." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The single book that has influenced me most is probably the last book in the world that anybody is gonna want to read: Thucydides’ History of the Peloponnesian War. This book is dense, difficult, long, full of blood and guts. It wasn’t written, as Thucydides himself attests at the start, to be easy or fun. But it is loaded with hardcore, timeless truths and the story it tells ought to be required reading for every citizen in a democracy. Thucydides was an Athenian general who was beaten and disgraced in a battle early in the 27-year conflagration that came to be called the Peloponnesian War. He decided to drop out of the fighting and dedicate himself to recording, in all the detail he could manage, this conflict, which, he felt certain, would turn out to be the greatest and most significant war ever fought up to that time. He did just that. Have you heard of Pericles’ Funeral Oration? Thucydides was there for it. He transcribed it. He was there for the debates in the Athenian assembly over the treatment of the island of Melos, the famous Melian Dialogue. If he wasn’t there for the defeat of the Athenian fleet at Syracuse or the betrayal of Athens by Alcibiades, he knew people who were there and he went to extremes to record what they told him.Thucydides, like all the Greeks of his era, was unencumbered by Christian theology, or Marxist dogma, or Freudian psychology, or any of the other “isms” that attempt to convince us that man is basically good, or perhaps perfectible. He saw things as they were, in my opinion. It’s a dark vision but tremendously bracing and empowering because it’s true. On the island of Corcyra, a great naval power in its day, one faction of citizens trapped their neighbors and fellow Corcyreans in a temple. They slaughtered the prisoners’ children outside before their eyes and when the captives gave themselves up based on pledges of clemency and oaths sworn before the gods, the captors massacred them as well. This was not a war of nation versus nation, this was brother against brother in the most civilized cities on earth. To read Thucydides is to see our own world in microcosm. It’s the study of how democracies destroy themselves by breaking down into warring factions, the Few versus the Many. Hoi polloi in Greek means “the many.” Oligoi means “the few.” I can’t recommend Thucydides for fun, but if you want to expose yourself to a towering intellect writing on the deepest stuff imaginable, give it a try." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Leonard Cohen is my patron saint. Try “Dance Me to the End of Love” or “Famous Blue Raincoat,” or pretty much anything else he’s ever written, including, of course, “Hallelujah,” his best-known song but really only the tip of the Leonard iceberg! Also: “Hinach Yafah (You Are Beautiful)” by Idan Raichel. It’s a gorgeous song of longing for the beloved, but really it’s about longing in general." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“SLOW DANCE Have you ever watched kids On a merry-go-round? Or listened to the rain Slapping on the ground? Ever followed a butterfly’s erratic flight? Or gazed at the sun into the fading night? You better slow down. Don’t dance so fast. Time is short. The music won’t last. Do you run through each day On the fly? When you ask: How are you? Do you hear the reply? When the day is done, do you lie in your bed With the next hundred chores Running through your head? You’d better slow down. Don’t dance so fast. Time is short. The music won’t last. Ever told your child, We’ll do it tomorrow? And in your haste, Not see his sorrow? Ever lost touch, Let a good friendship die Cause you never had time To call and say, “Hi”? You’d better slow down. Don’t dance so fast. Time is short. The music won’t last. When you run so fast to get somewhere You miss half the fun of getting there. When you worry and hurry through your day, It is like an unopened gift thrown away. Life is not a race. Do take it slower. Hear the music Before the song is over. 85." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The next Bill Gates will not build an operating system. The next Larry Page or Sergey Brin won’t make a search engine. And the next Mark Zuckerberg won’t create a social network. If you are copying these guys, you aren’t learning from them.” •" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“As Bruce Lee said, “Adapt what is useful, reject what is useless, and add what is specifically your own." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Self-esteem is just the reputation that you have with yourself. You’ll always know." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“We want to pick big. Infinity is our friend. Infinity is safe. Infinity gives us a place to hide. So, I want to encourage people instead to look for the small. To be on one medium in a place where people can find you. To have one sort of interaction with one tribe, with one group where you don’t have a lot of lifeboats." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Weirdness is why we adore our friends. . . . Weirdness is what bonds us to our colleagues. Weirdness is what sets us apart, gets us hired. Be your unapologetically weird self. In fact, being weird may even find you the ultimate happiness." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Borrow liberally, combine uniquely, and create your own bespoke blueprint." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“An expert is a person who has made all the mistakes that can be made in a very narrow field.” –Niels Bohr" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Success, however you define it, is achievable if you collect the right field-tested beliefs and habits." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“House of Leaves by Mark Danielewski: “This is a book that you have to hold, because there are parts of it where you need to turn it upside down to read it. There are certain pages where, you are reading it, and it turns in a circle. . . . This is a book that’s an entire sensory experience." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“People say that what we’re all seeking is a meaning for life. I don’t think that’s what we’re really seeking. I think that what we’re seeking is an experience of being alive.” –Joseph Campbell" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“My original intention with The 4-Hour Workweek (4HWW), The 4-Hour Body (4HB), and The 4-Hour Chef (4HC) was to create a trilogy themed after Ben Franklin’s famous quote: “Early to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy, and wise.” People constantly ask me, “What would you put in The 4-Hour Workweek if you were to write it again? How would you update it?” Ditto for 4HB and 4HC. Tools of Titans contains most of the answers for all three." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Most people will choose unhappiness over uncertainty." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Realistic goals, goals restricted to the average ambition level, are uninspiring and will only fuel you through the first or second problem, at which point you throw in the towel. If the potential payoff is mediocre or average, so is your effort." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Oftentimes, in order to do the big things, you have to let the small bad things happen." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“There are many things of which a wise man might wish to be ignorant.” –Ralph Waldo Emerson" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What we fear doing most is usually what we most need to do. As I have heard said, a person’s success in life can usually be measured by the number of uncomfortable conversations he or she is willing to have. Resolve to do one thing every day that you fear. I" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Self-sufficiency is another word for poverty.” Matt Ridley TW: @" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“you should never publicly criticize anyone or anything unless it is a matter of morals or ethics. Anything negative you say could at the very least ruin someone’s day, or worse, break someone’s heart, or simply change someone from being a future ally of yours to someone who will never forget" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The opposite of play isn’t work. It’s depression." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Many a false step was made by standing still.” –Fortune cookie" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you set your goals ridiculously high and it’s a failure, you will fail above everyone else’s success.” —James Cameron “If you find yourself in a fair fight, you didn’t plan your mission properly.” —Colonel David Hackworth “Not my circus. Not my monkeys.” —Polish proverb" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you find yourself in a fair fight, you didn’t plan your mission properly.” –Colonel David Hackworth" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“For a long time, I’ve known that the key to getting started down the path of being remarkable in anything is to simply act with the intention of being remarkable. “If I want a better-than-average career, I can’t simply ‘go with the flow’ and get it. Most people do just that: they wish for an outcome but make no intention-driven actions toward that outcome. If they would just do something most people would find that they get some version of the outcome they’re looking for. That’s been my secret. Stop wishing and start doing. “Yet" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I used to resent obstacles along the path, thinking, ‘If only that hadn’t happened life would be so good.’ Then I suddenly realized, life is the obstacles. There is no underlying path.” Janna Levin TW/IG: @jannalevin" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The future is already here—it’s just unevenly distributed.”—William Gibson" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“most cold calls didn’t get to the intended person for one reason: gatekeepers. If I simply made all my calls from 8:00–8:30 A.M. and 6:00–6:30 P.M., for a total of one hour, I was able to avoid secretaries and book more than twice as many meetings" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you are insecure, guess what? The rest of the world is, too. Do not overestimate the competition and underestimate yourself. You are better than you think. Unreasonable and unrealistic goals are easier to achieve for yet another reason." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The minimum effective dose (MED) is defined simply: the smallest dose that will produce a desired outcome." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“And if you say you’re not creative, look at how much you’re missing out on just because you’ve told yourself that. I think creativity is one of the greatest gifts that we’re born with that some people don’t cultivate, that they don’t realize it could be applied to literally everything in their lives." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“How has being “realistic” or “responsible” kept you from the life you want? 2. How has doing what you “should” resulted in subpar experiences or regret for not having done something else? 3. Look at what you’re currently doing and ask yourself, “What would happen if I did the opposite of" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Wasn’t it Bill Clinton who said that when dealing with anyone who’s upset, he always asks, ‘Has this person slept? Have they eaten? Is somebody else bugging them?’ He goes through this simple checklist. . . . When we’re handling babies and the baby is kicking and crying, we almost never once say, ‘That baby’s out to get me’ or ‘She’s got evil intentions." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It is fatal to know too much at the outset. Boredom comes as quickly to the traveler who knows his route as the novelist who is over certain of his plot.” –Paul Theroux" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The commonsense rules of the “real world” are a fragile collection of socially reinforced illusions." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Stop wishing and start doing." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The Magic of Goulash “The trip down the aisle [on a bus or train, during his travels] was where all the stakes were. Because as I’m going down that aisle, I’ve got to look for an empty seat next to somebody who seems interesting. Somebody I can trust, somebody who might be able to trust me. The stakes are high because I know that at the end of that ride, wherever it was going, that person had to invite me to their home. Because I had no money to spend night after night in a hotel.” The clincher question Cal used to get free room and board around Europe as a poor traveler was: “Can you tell me: How do you make the perfect goulash?” He would purposefully sit down next to grandmas, who would then pour out their souls. After a few minutes of passionate pantomiming, people would come from around the train to help translate, no matter the country. Cal never had to worry about where he was spending the night. “During [one dinner party a grandma threw in Hungary to feed me goulash,] one of the neighbors says, ‘Have you ever tasted apricot brandy? Because nobody makes apricot brandy like my father. He lives a half an hour away. You’ve got to come to taste the apricot brandy.’ That weekend, we’re tasting apricot brandy, having a great time. Another party starts, another neighbor comes over to me. ‘Have you ever been to Kiskunhalas, the paprika capital of the world? You cannot leave Hungary without visiting Kiskunhalas.’ Now we’re off to Kiskunhalas. I’m telling you, a single question about goulash could get me 6 weeks of lodging and meals, and that’s how I got passed around the world. 10 years. 10 years." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“People suck at following advice. Even the most effective people in the world are terrible at it. There are two reasons: 1. Most people have an insufficient reason for action. The pain isn’t painful enough. It’s a nice-to-have, not a must-have. There has been no “Harajuku Moment.” 2. There are no reminders. No consistent tracking = no awareness = no behavioral change. Consistent tracking, even if you have no knowledge of fat-loss or exercise, will often beat advice from world-class trainers." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Charles Munger, right-hand adviser to Warren Buffett, the richest man on the planet, is known for his unparalleled clear thinking and near-failure-proof track record. How did he refine his thinking to help build a $3 trillion business in Berkshire Hathaway? The answer is “mental models,” or analytical rules-of-thumb4 pulled from disciplines outside of investing, ranging from physics to evolutionary biology. Eighty to 90 models have helped Charles Munger develop, in Warren Buffett’s words, “the best 30-second mind in the world. He goes from A to Z in one move. He sees the essence of everything before you even finish the sentence." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Herbs? Herbs are from the leaves and stems of plants. Spices, on the other hand, are from the root, bark, and seeds." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Here’s a statistician joke for your next hot date: Person A: What happens when Bill Gates walks into a bar of 55 people? Person B: I don’t know. What? Person A: The “average” net worth jumps to more than a billion dollars!" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Think of them as insurance against the weaknesses of human nature—your weaknesses, my weaknesses, our weaknesses: 1. Make it conscious. 2. Make it a game. 3. Make it competitive. 4. Make it small and temporary." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“everything around you that you call ‘life’ was made up by people that were no smarter than you. And" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Show up in every moment like you’re meant to be there, because your energy precedes anything you could possibly say.” Marie Forleo" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Seeing progress in changing numbers makes the repetitive fascinating and creates a positive feedback loop. Once again, the act of measuring is often more important than what you measure. To quote the industrial statistician George Box: “Every model is wrong, but some are useful." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The Logic of the Double or Triple Threat On “career advice,” Scott has written the following, which is slightly trimmed for space here. This is effectively my mantra, and you’ll see why I bring it up: If you want an average, successful life, it doesn’t take much planning. Just stay out of trouble, go to school, and apply for jobs you might like. But if you want something extraordinary, you have two paths: 1) Become the best at one specific thing. 2) Become very good (top 25%) at two or more things. The first strategy is difficult to the point of near impossibility. Few people will ever play in the NBA or make a platinum album. I don’t recommend anyone even try. The second strategy is fairly easy. Everyone has at least a few areas in which they could be in the top 25% with some effort. In my case, I can draw better than most people, but I’m hardly an artist. And I’m not any funnier than the average standup comedian who never makes it big, but I’m funnier than most people. The magic is that few people can draw well and write jokes. It’s the combination of the two that makes what I do so rare. And when you add in my business background, suddenly I had a topic that few cartoonists could hope to understand without living it." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Lifestyle Design is thus not interested in creating an excess of idle time, which is poisonous, but the positive use of free time, defined simply as doing what you want as opposed to what you feel obligated to do." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I must not fear. Fear is the mind-killer. Fear is the little-death that brings total obliteration. I will face my fear. I will permit it to pass over me and through me. And when it has gone past I will turn the inner eye to see its path. Where the fear has gone there will be nothing. Only I will remain." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Usually, what we most fear doing is what we most need to do. That phone call, that conversation, whatever the action might be—it is fear of unknown outcomes that prevents us from doing what we need to do. Define the worst case, accept it, and do it. I’ll repeat something you might consider tattooing on your forehead: What we fear doing most is usually what we most need to do. As I have heard said, a person’s success in life can usually be measured by the number of uncomfortable conversations he or she is willing to have." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Not Dead, Can’t Quit." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“To find the right things, we’ll need to go to the garden." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Most who avoid quitting their jobs entertain the thought that their course will improve with time or increases in income. This seems valid and is a tempting hallucination when a job is boring or uninspiring instead of pure hell. Pure hell forces action, but anything less can be endured with enough clever rationalization. Do you really think it will improve or is it wishful thinking and an excuse for inaction? If you were confident in improvement, would you really be questioning things so? Generally not. This is fear of the unknown disguised as optimism. Are you better off than you were one year ago, one month ago, or one week ago?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Getting fired, despite sometimes coming as a surprise and leaving you scrambling to recover, is often a godsend. Most people aren’t lucky enough to get fired and die a slow spiritual death over 30-40 years of tolerating the mediocre." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Never go to sleep without a request to your subconscious.”—Thomas Edison" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“use fat, not water, to counter hotness. Capsaicin is fat-soluble." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you want to improve, be content to be thought foolish and stupid.”—Epictetus" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I not only use all the brains that I have, but all that I can borrow.      —WOODROW WILSON" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In the world of ideas, to name something is to own it. If you can name an issue, you can own the issue.” —Thomas L. Friedman" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“So I think, every day, it’s something to reflect on and think about ‘How do I become less competitive in order that I can become more successful?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“1. Doing something unimportant well does not make it important. 2. Requiring a lot of time does not make a task important." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Creation is a better means of self-expression than possession; it is through creating, not possessing, that life is revealed. —VIDA D. SCUDDER, The Life of the Spirit in the Modern English Poets" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Do your own thinking independently. Be the chess player, not the chess piece.      —RALPH CHARELL" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“This is a story about a tiger named Mohini that was in captivity in a zoo, who was rescued from an animal sanctuary. Mohini had been confined to a 10-by-10-foot cage with a concrete floor for 5 or 10 years. They finally released her into this big pasture: With excitement and anticipation, they released Mohini into her new and expensive environment, but it was too late. The tiger immediately sought refuge in a corner of the compound, where she lived for the remainder of her life. She paced and paced in that corner until an area 10-by-10 feet was worn bare of grass. . . . Perhaps the biggest tragedy in our lives is that freedom is possible, yet we can pass our years trapped in the same old patterns." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“People are poor judges of importance and inflate minutiae to fill time and feel important." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Ordinarily he was insane, but he had lucid moments when he was merely stupid. —HEINRICH HEINE," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Morning pages are, as author Julia Cameron puts it, “spiritual windshield wipers.” It’s the most cost-effective therapy I’ve ever found. To quote her further, from page viii: “Once we get those muddy, maddening, confusing thoughts [nebulous worries, jitters, and preoccupations] on the page, we face our day with clearer eyes.” Please reread the above quote. It may be the most important aspect of trapping thought on paper (i.e., writing) you’ll ever encounter. Even if you consider yourself a terrible writer, writing can be viewed as a tool. There are huge benefits to writing, even if no one—yourself included—ever reads what you write. In other words, the process matters more than the product." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“don’t label a lot of things good/bad. [Instead, I ask] can I evolve from this? What do I want now?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What would this look like if it were easy?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“When I let go of what I am, I become what I might be.” —Lao Tzu" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The true soldier fights not because he hates what is in front of him, but because he loves what is behind him.” –G. K. Chesterton English philosopher known as the “prince of paradox” “All happiness depends on a leisurely breakfast.” –John Gunther American journalist, author of Death Be Not Proud “The acquisition of riches has been for many men, not an end, but a change, of troubles.” –Epicurus Ancient Greek philosopher, founder of the school of Epicureanism “To handle yourself, use your head; to handle others, use your heart.” –Eleanor Roosevelt Longest-serving First Lady of the United States, diplomat, and activist" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What would this look like if it were easy? “This” could be anything. That morning, it was answering a laundry list of big questions. What would this look like if it were easy? is such a lovely and deceptively leveraged question. It’s easy to convince yourself that things need to be hard, that if you’re not redlining, you’re not trying hard enough. This leads us to look for paths of most resistance, often creating unnecessary hardship in the process." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“There is not enough time to do all the nothing we want to do. —BILL WATTERSON," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“we would always think: ‘Okay, if we do X today, what does that result in tomorrow, a year from now, ten years from now?’ The" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Losers react, leaders anticipate." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“18. Notice how I take “you” out of the sentence to avoid finger-pointing, even though it’s implicit. “Normally, you make priorities clear” sounds like a backhanded insult. If this is a significant other, you can skip this formality, but never use “you always do X,” which is just a fight starter." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“An expert is a person who has made all the mistakes that can be made in a very narrow field. —NIELS BOHR, Danish physicist and Nobel Prize winner" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“love, be loved, and never stop learning—" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Before spending time on a stress-inducing question or problem, consider this: If you can't define it or act upon it, forget it." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Hard feelings pass. Don’t suffer fools or you’ll become one." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“When you feel overwhelmed or unfocused, what do you do? I change my physiology. If I am near waves, I go surf them. If not, a short, intense kettlebell workout, a bike ride, a swim, a cold shower or ice plunge, Wim Hof or heart rate variability breathing [see Adam Robinson, for a description]. It’s remarkable how the mind follows the body." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Alex Honnold, free solo climbing phenom: The Last of the Mohicans soundtrack Rolf Potts, author of Vagabonding and others: ambitones like The Zen Effect in the key of C for 30 minutes, made by Rolfe Kent, the composer of music for movies like Sideways, Wedding Crashers, and Legally Blonde Matt Mullenweg, lead developer of WordPress, CEO of Automattic: “Everyday” by A$AP Rocky and “One Dance” by Drake Amelia Boone, the world’s most successful female obstacle course racer: “Tonight Tonight” by the Smashing Pumpkins and “Keep Your Eyes Open” by NEEDTOBREATHE Chris Young, mathematician and experimental chef: Paul Oakenfold’s “Live at the Rojan in Shanghai,” Pete Tong’s Essential Mix Jason Silva, TV and YouTube philosopher: “Time” from the Inception soundtrack by Hans Zimmer Chris Sacca: “Harlem Shake” by Baauer and “Lift Off” by Jay Z and Kanye West, featuring Beyoncé. “I can bang through an amazing amount of email with the Harlem Shake going on in the background.” Tim Ferriss: Currently I’m listening to “Circulation” by Beats Antique and “Black Out the Sun” by Sevendust, depending on whether I need flow or a jumpstart." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What makes a river so restful to people is that it doesn’t have any doubt—it is sure to get where it is going, and it doesn’t want to go anywhere else.”—Hal Boyle." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Once we get those muddy, maddening, confusing thoughts [nebulous worries, jitters, and preoccupations] on the page, we face our day with clearer eyes." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Whenever you find yourself on the side of the majority, it is time to pause and reflect.”—Mark Twain" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Ever tried. Ever failed. No matter. Try again. Fail again. Fail better." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Doing something unimportant well does not make it important. 2. Requiring a lot of time does not make a task important." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Doing less meaningless work, so that you can focus on things of greater personal importance, is NOT laziness. This is hard for most to accept, because our culture tends to reward personal sacrifice instead of personal productivity." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Researchers use alloxan in lab rats to induce diabetes. That’s right—it’s used to produce diabetes. This is bad news if you eat anything white or “enriched." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Flavor is, counterintuitively, less than 10% taste and more than 90% smell." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“No problem can be solved from the same level of consciousness that created it.”—Albert Einstein" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It is possible to know all there is to know about a subject—medicine, for example—but if you don’t have M.D. at the end of your name, few will listen. The M.D. is what I term a “credibility indicator.” The so-called expert with the most credibility indicators, whether acronyms or affiliations, is often the most successful in the marketplace, even if other candidates have more in-depth knowledge. This is a matter of superior positioning, not deception." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It is far more lucrative and fun to leverage your strengths instead of attempting to fix all the chinks in your armor. The choice is between multiplication of results using strengths or incremental improvement fixing weaknesses that will, at best, become mediocre. Focus on better use of your best weapons instead of constant repair." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Serving the customer (“customer service”) is not becoming a personal concierge and catering to their every whim and want. Customer service is providing an excellent product at an acceptable price and solving legitimate problems (lost packages, replacements, refunds, etc.) in the fastest manner possible. That’s it." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“just-in-time” information instead of “just-in-case” information." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“there is always a single “source”: the person who took the first risk on a new initiative. That source maintains a unique relationship with the gestalt of the original idea and has an intuitive knowledge of what the right next step for the initiative is, whereas others who join later to help with the execution often lack that intuitive connection to the founder’s original insight. Many organizational tensions and power struggles often revolve around lack of explicit acknowledgment of who the source of the initiative is." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Whenever you find yourself on the side of the majority, it is time to pause and reflect." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“BLAMING IDIOTS FOR interruptions is like blaming clowns for scaring children—they can’t help it. It’s their nature. Then again, I had (who am I kidding—and have), on occasion, been known to create interruptions out of thin air. If you’re anything like me, that makes us both occasional idiots. Learn to recognize and fight the interruption impulse. This is infinitely easier when you have a set of rules, responses, and routines to follow." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The question you should be asking isn’t, “What do I want?” or “What are my goals?” but “What would excite me?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Civilization had too many rules for me, so I did my best to rewrite them. —BILL COSBY" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“on a scale of 1–10, 1 being nothing and 10 being permanently life-changing, my so-called worst-case scenario might have a temporary impact of 3 or 4." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What bullshit excuses do you have for not going after whatever it is that you want? Please, write in, tell us on social media why these are real excuses with #bullshit afterwards. Oh my God, man, that’s such a great story." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Work wherever and whenever you want, but get your work done." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Though you can upgrade your brain domestically, traveling and relocating provides unique conditions that make progress much faster. The different surroundings act as a counterpoint and mirror for your own prejudices, making weaknesses that much easier to fix. I" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Meetings are an addictive, highly self-indulgent activity that corporations and other organizations habitually engage in only because they cannot actually masturbate. —DAVE BARRY, Pulitzer" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Advice to your 20-year-old self? “I would say, ‘Write everything down because it’s all very fleeting.’ I would say, ‘Keep a journal,’ which I have but I would have been more meticulous. Then I would say, ‘Don’t bow to the gatekeepers at the head of, in my case, show business, but at the gate of any business or any endeavor.’ Don’t bow to the gatekeepers because I think, in essence, there are no gatekeepers. You are the gatekeeper. . . . “Don’t waste your time on marketing, just try to get better. . . . “And also, it’s not about being good; it’s about being great. Because what I find, the older I get, is that a lot of people are good, and a lot of people are smart, and a lot of people are clever. But not a lot of people give you their soul when they perform." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you set your goals ridiculously high and it’s a failure, you will fail above everyone else’s success.” —James Cameron" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The word cellulite, for example, first appeared in the April 15, 1968, issue of Vogue magazine, and this invented disease soon had a believer base worldwide: Vogue began to focus on the body as much as on the clothes, in part because there was little they could dictate with the anarchic styles.… In a stunning move, an entire replacement culture was developed by naming a “problem” where it had scarcely existed before, centering it on the women’s natural state, and elevating it to the existential female dilemma… . The number of diet- related articles rose 70 percent from 1968 to 1972." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The immediate answer that comes to mind is ‘humility.’ Because you’ve got to be humble, and you’ve got to be coachable. . . . Later, when I was running training, we would fire a couple leaders from every SEAL Team because they couldn’t lead. And 99.9% of the time, it wasn’t a question of their ability to shoot a weapon, it wasn’t because they weren’t in good physical shape, it wasn’t because they were unsafe. It was almost always a question of their ability to listen, open their mind, and see that, maybe, there’s a better way to do things. That is from a lack of humility. . ." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“REMEMBER: it is impossible to evaluate, or even understand, anything that you cannot measure.” 80" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The great majority of that which gives you angst never happens, so you must evict it. Don’t let it live rent-free in your brain." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The key to that satisfaction is to reach the nirvana in which love of practice for its own sake (intrinsic) replaces the original goal (extrinsic) as our grail. The antithesis of mastery is the pursuit of quick fixes." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In other words, you can spend all day undermining other people, and even if you’re right, who cares? Anybody can talk about why something’s bad. Try doing something good." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If only I had more money” is the easiest way to postpone the intense self-examination and decision-making necessary to create a life of enjoyment—now and not later." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Related: Money doesn’t change you; it reveals who you are when you no longer have to be nice" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“City of Thieves by David Benioff" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“No quieres ser la decimosegunda empresa de paneles solares de la última década. Y no quieres ser la enésima empresa de ninguna tendencia en particular. Así" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The struggle ends when the gratitude begins.” [Quote attributed to Neale Donald Walsch" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Earn with your mind, not your time." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“2,000–3,000 PEOPLE, NOT GENERAL FAME This is one of the messages Eric burned into my brain last year, and it’s guided many decisions since. We were sitting in a large soaking tub talking about the world (as mathematicians and human guinea pigs do in San Francisco), and he said: “General fame is overrated. You want to be famous to 2,000 to 3,000 people you handpick.” I’m paraphrasing, but the gist is that you don’t need or want mainstream fame. It brings more liabilities than benefits. However, if you’re known and respected by 2–3K high-caliber people (e.g., the live TED audience), you can do anything and everything you want in life. It provides maximal upside and minimal downside. GOOD QUESTION TO ASK YOURSELF WHEN TACKLING INCUMBENT COMPANIES (OR IDEAS) “How is their bread buttered?” “What is it that they can’t afford to say or think?” “CONSENSUS” SHOULD SET OFF YOUR SPIDEY SENSE “Somehow, people have to learn that consensus is a huge problem. There’s no ‘arithmetic consensus’ because it doesn’t require a consensus. But there is a Washington consensus. There is a climate consensus. In general, consensus is how we bully people into pretending that there’s nothing to see. ‘Move along, everyone.’ I think that, in part, you should learn that people don’t naturally come to high levels of agreement unless something is either absolutely clear, in which case consensus isn’t present, or there’s an implied threat of violence to livelihood or self.” TF: I start nearly every public presentation I give with a slide that contains one quote: “Whenever you find yourself on the side of the majority, it’s time to pause and reflect.” —Mark Twain. This isn’t just for my audience. It’s also a reminder for me." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The second thing is, when you are trying to go 10 times bigger, you have to start with a clean sheet of paper, and you approach the problem completely differently. I’ll give you my favorite example: Tesla. How did Elon start Tesla and build from scratch the safest, most extraordinary car, not even in America, but I think in the world? It’s by not having a legacy from the past to drag into the present. That’s important." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Incineration does not equal human digestion; eating a fireplace log will not store the same number of calories as burning one will produce." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«No soy la más fuerte. No soy la más rápida. Pero soy muy buena sufriendo.»" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“A common rookie error that inexperienced leaders make is always agreeing with the last person they talked to; this takes a while to get past, though it becomes easy once you get exposed to enough people who contradict each other." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“This is very similar to Derek Sivers’s (page 184) “Don’t be a donkey” rule. In a world of distraction, single-tasking is a superpower." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Esto se hace para que «no vuelvas a [las viejas creencias] a través de viejas fórmulas lingüísticas" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“principio sencillo: Si no puedes ser el primero en una categoría, crea una nueva en la que puedas ser el primero." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Reality is merely an illusion,albeit a very persistent one. —ALBERT EINSTEIN" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“la hora de valorar un producto nuevo, me centro en sus aspectos novedosos (no en todos ellos) e interpreto de forma exhaustiva cómo pueden impactar en las emociones de los consumidores que lo usen. Después de eso, considero cómo pueden evolucionar esos mismos aspectos con el tiempo." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What advice would you give to a smart, driven college student about to enter the “real world”? When in doubt, let kindness and compassion guide you. And don’t be afraid to fail." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«Dice que la clave del éxito es: “Sé tan bueno que no puedan ignorarte”»." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“A veces también puedes convertir algo del montón en un producto estrella inventando una categoría nueva." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“When you raise your kids, you’re the bow, they’re the arrow, and you just try to aim them in the best direction that you can, and hopefully your aim isn’t too off." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“D: To reach the big pay-off, whether IPO, acquisition, retirement, or other pot of gold. NR: To think big but ensure payday comes every day: cash flow first, big payday second." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“ten un respaldo”». Si tienes dos cosas de algo y se te rompe o pierdes una, te queda otra;" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“As William Gibson, who coined the term “cyberspace,” has said: “The future is already here—it is just unevenly distributed." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Lo que prefiero, en lugar de las tendencias, es pensar que tengo encomendada una misión. Que trabajo en un problema único que la gente no está resolviendo en ningún otro lugar." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Do your own thinking independently. Be the chess player, not the chess piece.” –Ralph Charell" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«Y no te limites a tener equipos de respaldo, ten también un plan de respaldo" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you could have a gigantic billboard anywhere with anything on it, what would it say and why? I would not have a billboard, and I would take down every billboard that everybody else has put up." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Dell irrumpió en el terreno superpoblado de los ordenadores personales al ser la primera empresa en vender estos aparatos por teléfono." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Ralph Waldo Emerson: “To laugh often and much; to win the respect of intelligent people and the affection of children . . . to leave the world a bit better . . . to know even one life has breathed easier because you have lived; this is to have succeeded." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“para afrontar cualquier posible contingencia»." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Do not seek to follow in the footsteps of the wise, instead, seek what they sought.” –Matsuo Bashō Japanese poet of the Edo period" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Una de las principales convicciones que me limitaban a mí era:" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If only I had more money is the easiest way to postpone the intense self-examination and decision-making necessary to create a life of enjoyment- now and not later. By using money as the scapegoat and work as our all-consuming routine, we are able to conveniently disallow ourselves the time to do otherwise." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Peter ha escrito en otro lugar: «El próximo Bill Gates no creará un sistema operativo. El próximo Larry Page o Serguéi Brin no hará un buscador de internet. Y el próximo Mark Zuckerberg no creará una red social. Si copias a estos tipos, no estás aprendiendo nada de ellos»." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Pain is never out of season if you go shopping for it." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“PETER: “The pitch was, ‘Listen, wouldn’t you want entrepreneurs around the world to be working on new technologies so that this is off your balance sheet?’” TF:" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Named must your fear be before banish it you can.” –Yoda Powerful Jedi master" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«No estoy programado para la felicidad», la cual reemplacé por: «La felicidad es mi estado natural»." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“sisu”—the mental strength to continue to try even after you feel you’ve reached the limits of your abilities." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What are the kinds of key things that might be constraints on a solution, or might be the attributes of a solution, and what are tools or assets I might have? . " -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«¿En qué es mejor este producto nuevo al de la competencia?», sino «¿primero en qué?». En otras palabras: «¿En qué categoría es primero este producto?»." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Si esto es un hombre y La tregua (Club Círculo de Lectores, 2004), de Primo Levi," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“método de las afirmaciones de Scott Adams" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Fíjate en lo que haces actualmente y pregúntate: «¿Qué pasaría si hiciera lo contrario que los que me rodean? ¿Qué voy a sacrificar si continúo así durante 5, 10 o 20 años más?»." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If [more] information was the answer, then we’d all be billionaires with perfect abs." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Reality is merely an illusion,albeit a very persistent one. —ALBERT" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“This is another one that took me a long time to learn. Starting something doesn’t automatically justify finishing it." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“One True God: Historical Consequences of Monotheism by Rodney Stark The Idea of Decline in Western History by Arthur Herman" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Too often, aspiring artists put pressure on themselves to make their creative work their only source of income. In my experience, it’s a road to misery. If art is your sole source of income, then there’s unrelenting pressure on that art, and mercenary pressure is the enemy of the creative elves inside you trying to get the work done. Having another stream of income drains the pressure on your creative engine. If nothing comes of your art, you still have an ironclad plan to support yourself. As a result, your creative soul feels lighter and free to do its best work. I’m a personal practitioner of this: Even after three books and a hefty movie deal, I still tutor kids and help them with their college applications. My friends can’t understand it, but it’s the only way I know how to write without feeling like it’s a matter of life and death." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Things are never as good or as bad as they seem." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“OrbiTape One-handed Tape Measure" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Set aside a certain number of days, during which you shall be content with the scantiest and cheapest fare, with course and rough dress, saying to yourself the while: “Is this the condition that I feared?” —SENECA" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“after Ben Franklin’s famous quote: “Early to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«Tener más fortaleza» era, sobre todo, una decisión para tener más fortaleza." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I’d rather die doing something I feel is great and amazing rather than be safe and comfortable living a life I hate." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The perfect day is caffeine for 10 hours, alcohol for 4. It balances everything out perfectly." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“lo que he dicho es que no todo el mundo debe seguir los mismos pasos." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“That's precisely the question everyone should be asking, why the hell not? Why not you? Why not now?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It’s when I’m fuzzy about where I’m headed that I start to say yes to things willy-nilly. And I’ve been burned enough times by FOMO-based and ego-based decision-making to know that I’ll always regret choosing to do something for the wrong reason." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Brave Enough by Cheryl Strayed." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“This doesn’t mean you want to spend your time doing it. If you spend your time, worth $20–25 per hour, doing something that someone else will do for $10 per hour, it’s simply a poor use of resources. It is important to take baby steps toward paying others to do work for you." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The Four Agreements by Don Miguel Ruiz." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“There is a big difference between intelligence and wisdom. Many are fooled into thinking they are the same thing, but they are not. I have seen intelligent serial killers, but I’ve never seen a wise one." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Doing the Unrealistic Is Easier Than Doing the Realistic From contacting billionaires to rubbing elbows with celebrities—the second group of students did both—it’s as easy as believing it can be done. It’s lonely at the top. Ninety-nine percent of people in the world are convinced they are incapable of achieving great things, so they aim for the mediocre. The level of competition is thus fiercest for “realistic” goals, paradoxically making them the most time- and energy-consuming. It is easier to raise $1,000,000 than it is $100,000. It is easier to pick up the one perfect 10 in the bar than the five 8s. If you are insecure, guess what? The rest of the world is, too. Do not overestimate the competition and underestimate yourself. You are better than you think. Unreasonable and unrealistic goals are easier to achieve for yet another reason. Having an unusually large goal is an adrenaline infusion that provides the endurance to overcome the inevitable trials and tribulations that go along with any goal. Realistic goals, goals restricted to the average ambition level, are uninspiring and will only fuel you through the first or second problem, at which point you throw in the towel. If the potential payoff is mediocre or average, so is your effort." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The stupidity of people comes from having an answer for everything. The wisdom of the novel comes from having a question for everything.” Substitute “master learner” for “novel,” and you have my philosophy of life. Often, all that stands between you and what you want is a better set of questions." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Charles Schwab no abrió una agencia de valores mejor. Creó el primer agente de préstamos. Esto va en contra del pensamiento" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I also figured out that I could use my workouts as a form of meditation because I concentrate so much on the muscle, I have my mind inside the bicep when I do my curls. I have my mind inside the pectoral muscles when I do my bench press. I’m really inside, and it’s like I gain a form of meditation, because you have no chance of thinking or concentrating on anything else at that time." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Weirdness is why we adore our friends…. Weirdness is what bonds us to our colleagues. Weirdness is what sets us apart, gets us hired. Be your unapologetically weird self. In fact, being weird may even find you the ultimate happiness." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Hay algo muy raro en una sociedad en la que toda la gente con más talento es guiada hacia los mismos centros de elite, donde acaban estudiando la misma cantidad reducida de asignaturas y llegando a un mismo número reducido de carreras." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“La culpa es de mi jefe”." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The “aura of exclusivity” is really code for “bad atmosphere." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“sequencing. If you stop reading here" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“We are drawn to tasks where we can receive validation through results, but I’ve learned that true fulfillment comes from love of the process. Look for something where you love the process, and the results will follow." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In my case, I use spam filters, autoresponders with FAQs, and automatic forwarding to outsourcers to limit my e-mail obligation to 10–20 e-mail responses per week. It takes me 30 minutes per week because I used systems—elimination and automation—to make it so." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Epicurus, Seneca, Marcus Aurelius, Plato, Michel de Montaigne, Arthur Schopenhauer, Friedrich Nietzsche, and Bertrand Russell." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Magnesium and calcium are easiest to consume in pill form, and 500 milligrams of magnesium taken prior to bed will also improve sleep." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Pues no, la culpa es tuya en realidad por no haberle enseñado bien, por no haber influido en él," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“One wrong person in your circle can destroy your whole future." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“»Esto me choca, porque me parece una falta de diversidad en nuestra concepción sobre qué tipo de cosas debería hacer la gente." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“From an actionable information standpoint, I consume a maximum of one-third of one industry magazine (Response magazine) and one business magazine (Inc.) per month, for a grand total of approximately four hours. That’s it for results-oriented reading. I read an hour of fiction prior to bed for relaxation." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“clásico en marketing, que está orientado a las marcas: «¿Cómo hago que la gente prefiera mi marca?». Olvídate de la marca." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“recipientes Pyrex ®." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Para desarrollar tus aptitudes en un principio, aprendes a establecer prioridades; para conservar tus facultades debes defenderte de las prioridades de los demás." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Puertas de fuego (Grijalbo Mondadori, 1999), de Steven Pressfield." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“beauty has become a modern-day superdrug, that with filtered and face-tuned social media, retouched models on advertisements, and rampant pornography, we’ve overloaded the senses so that our natural instincts can no longer recognize or react to real beauty anymore. And it’s making us confused and miserable, both in how we judge ourselves and how we judge others." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«Ser un emprendedor es estar dispuesto a hacer un trabajo que nadie más quiere hacer [para] poder vivir el resto de tu vida haciendo lo que quieras hacer.»" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Let’s assume we have 10 goals and we achieve them—what is the desired outcome that makes all the effort worthwhile? The most common response is what I also would have suggested five years ago: happiness. I no longer believe this is a good answer. Happiness can be bought with a bottle of wine and has become ambiguous through overuse. There is a more precise alternative that reflects what I believe the actual objective is. Bear with me. What is the opposite of happiness? Sadness? No. Just as love and hate are two sides of the same coin, so are happiness and sadness. Crying out of happiness is a perfect illustration of this. The opposite of love is indifference, and the opposite of happiness is—here’s the clincher—boredom. Excitement is the more practical synonym for happiness, and it is precisely what you should strive to chase. It is the cure-all. When people suggest you follow your “passion” or your “bliss,” I propose that they are, in fact, referring to the same singular concept: excitement. This brings us full circle. The question you should be asking isn’t, “What do I want?” or “What are my goals?” but “What would excite me?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“When I’m cooking or doing other physical work and I get overwhelmed, it’s usually because I’m not taking care of myself, so I’ll take a break. I’ll make a snack or a cup of tea. Or I’ll just drink a glass of water and sit down outside for a few minutes. It’s usually enough to get me calm and clear." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Life is too short to be busy. Spirit animal: Sponge Cal Fussman Cal Fussman (TW: @calfussman, calfussman.com) is a New York Times best-selling author and a writer-at-large for Esquire magazine, where he is best known for being a primary writer of the What I’ve Learned feature. The Austin Chronicle has described Cal’s interviewing skills as “peerless.” He has transformed oral history into an art form, conducting probing interviews with icons who have shaped the last 50 years of world history: Mikhail" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“por no haberle explicado de forma que lo entienda por qué necesitas el respaldo que necesitas." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«Suelo saber si voy bien encaminado con algo cuando siento un poco de miedo. Me digo: “Caray, podría estropearlo”.»" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The opposite of love is indifference, and the opposite of happiness is - here's the clincher - boredom. Excitement is the more practical synonym for happiness, and it is precisely what you should strive to chase. It is the cure-all." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Life shrinks or expands in proportion to one’s courage.” It’s a short reminder that success can usually be measured by the number of uncomfortable conversations we are willing to have, and by the number of uncomfortable actions we are willing to take." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I’ve seen the promised land, and there is good news. You can have it all." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Pero los clientes tienen una mentalidad abierta cuando se trata de categorías." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“And when you lose more than a few clothing sizes, just remember to put on a bit of Gotu Kola cream to minimize stretch marks, as Olympic strength coach Charles Poliquin recommends." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Students should go to college with an open mind. I advise them to ignore all the absolutism around them, both in terms of ideas and people. When they’re told that some people or ideas are wrong, hateful, or offensive, a light bulb should go off in their heads. That is the moment their curiosity should be piqued to find out for themselves whether it is indeed a “bad” thing. Adopting an attitude of critical thinking is most crucial in learning anything." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«Siempre que te descubras en el lado de la mayoría, es hora de detenerse a reflexionar.» MARK TWAIN" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Derek wrote a book called Reasons and Persons, which Will considers one of the most important books written in the 20th century." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“todo el mundo le interesa lo nuevo. Poca gente se interesa por lo mejor. Si eres el primero en una categoría" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Why Superbad Worked Superbad worked because Seth and Evan wrote about exactly what they were experiencing at the time. Evan explains, “At the time, all we knew was that we really wanted to get laid, we weren’t getting laid, and we weren’t supercool.” It pays to write what you know. Seth started doing standup when he was 13 years old. He adds: “That’s something that came from standup comedy. There’s a comic named Darryl Lenox who still performs, who is great. I remember he saw me perform. . . . I would try to mimic other comedians like Steven Wright or Seinfeld, like, ‘What’s the deal with Krazy Glue?’ and he said: ‘Dude, you’re the only person here who could talk about trying to get a hand job for the first time. . . . Talk about that!’” Lessons from Judd Apatow EVAN: “I would say the biggest thing we learned from [Judd] is ‘Don’t keep stuff to yourself.’ You’re surrounded by smart people. Bring them in. Get other people’s opinions. Share it with them. And most importantly, emotion is what matters. It’s an emotional journey. . . .” SETH: “. . . I remember one time we were filming a scene in Knocked Up and improvising, or maybe it was even 40-Year-Old Virgin, and the direction he screamed at us—because he screams direction from another room a lot, which is hilarious—was, ‘Less semen, more emotion!’ I think that is actually a good note to apply across the board.” TIM: “You also mentioned that every character has to have a wound of some kind.” EVAN: “That’s a big Judd-ism.” TF: Judd recommended they read The Art of Dramatic Writing by Lajos Egri (Evan: “If you’re a writer, 60% of it is useless and 40% of it is gold.”), which Judd said was Woody Allen’s favorite writing book." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Ésa es la máxima responsabilidad. Asúmela por completo»." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The Act of Creation by Arthur Koestler," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Don’t use skepticism as a thinly veiled excuse for inaction or remaining in your comfort zone." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Set aside a certain number of days, during which you shall be content with the scantiest and cheapest fare, with coarse and rough dress, saying to yourself the while: ‘Is this the condition that I feared?’” —Seneca" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Proteins *Egg whites with 1–2 whole eggs for flavor (or, if organic, 2–5 whole eggs, including yolks) *Chicken breast or thigh *Beef (preferably grass-fed) *Fish Pork Legumes *Lentils (also called “dal” or “daal”) *Black beans Pinto beans Red beans Soybeans Vegetables *Spinach *Mixed vegetables (including broccoli, cauliflower, or any other cruciferous vegetables) *Sauerkraut, kimchee (full explanation of these later in “Damage Control”) Asparagus Peas Broccoli Green beans Eat as much as you like of the above food items, but keep it simple." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“¿Qué caracteriza a un buen jefe?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What might you do to accomplish your 10-year goals in the next 6 months, if you had a gun against your head?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Life should not be a journey to the grave with the intention of arriving safely in a pretty and well preserved body, but rather to skid in broadside in a cloud of smoke, thoroughly used up, totally worn out, and loudly proclaiming ‘Wow! What a Ride!’”—Hunter S. Thompson, The Proud Highway: Saga of a Desperate Southern Gentleman, 1955–1967" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The Power of Persuasion by Robert Levine. The" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«La gente lista debería hacer cosas»." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«Creo que el fracaso está muy sobrevalorado. La mayoría de los negocios fracasa por más de una razón. Así que, cuando un negocio fracasa, no sueles aprender nada en absoluto," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«Lo primero que se me viene a la cabeza es la “humildad”." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“To do original work: It’s not necessary to know something nobody else knows. It is necessary to believe something few other people believe." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Porque tienes que ser humilde, y tienes que dejarte enseñar…" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“His friends, drunk to the point of speaking in tongues, were asleep." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“2. I’m just caging my monkey mind on paper so I can get on with my fucking day." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Normalmente nunca quieres formar parte de una tendencia popular. No quieres ser la cuarta empresa que vende comida para mascotas por internet a finales de la década de 1990. No quieres ser la decimosegunda empresa de paneles solares de la última década. Y no quieres ser la enésima empresa de ninguna tendencia en particular." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Trump suele utilizar para neutralizar a los periodistas, que es la rápida interjección: «Compruebe sus datos, [inserta aquí el nombre del periodista]»." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Specifically, let’s say you were interviewing Chris, you’d say, ‘Everyone says Chris is great, but . . .’ and then you’d sit there in silence. Do" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“La cuestión, por tanto, es: ¿Cómo consigo alcanzar el estilo de vida de libertad absoluta que tienen los millonarios sin tener un millón de dólares de partida?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“¿Idiota? Por supuesto [comerse solo una tarta gigante empalagosa sólo por que él la había hecho]. Creo que no se puede ser más idiota. Este es un ejemplo ridículo y a pequeñísima escala de lo que continuamente hace la gente a mayor escala con los trabajos: sufrimiento autoimpuesto que puede evitarse... ¿Qué tarta de queso te estás comiendo?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“When I started BrainQUICKEN LLC in 2001, it was with a clear goal in mind: Make $1,000 per day whether I was banging my head on a laptop or cutting my toenails on the beach. It was to be an automated source of cash flow. If you look at my chronology, it is obvious that this didn’t happen until a meltdown forced it, despite the requisite income. Why? The goal wasn’t specific enough. I hadn’t defined alternate activities that would replace the initial workload. Therefore, I just continued working, even though there was no financial need. I needed to feel productive and had no other vehicles." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I hadn’t reached my limit; I’d reached the limit of my business model at the time. It wasn’t the driver, it was the vehicle." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“*What is the best or most worthwhile investment you’ve made? “The best thing I ever did, besides getting sober 25 years ago, was shelving my restaurant career in 2002, selling my shares in my restaurant, and working for free for a local radio station, magazine, and TV station in an effort to create my own media syllabus. I wanted to create a product with a massive platform, and try to make a difference in the world, and I couldn’t do it without becoming a 40-year-old intern, learning everything I needed, and rebooting my career." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Rebecca Solnit’s A Field Guide to Getting Lost" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“which vitamin D is able to regulate the production of serotonin in the brain and the various implications this may" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“it would probably be the hex-bar deadlift or" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I sometimes find myself torn between two options, and it’s clear to me that the stakes are high, but it’s not at all clear which option is better. So I keep agonizing over the choice, Ping-Ponging back and forth between my options, even though I’m not getting any new information. Fortunately, at some point in this process, I remember this principle: Uncertainty over expected value (EV) just gets folded into EV. So, if I know that one of option A or B is going to be great, and the other’s going to be a disaster, but I’m totally unsure which is which, then they have the same expected value." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“But I don’t just think gratitude. I let gratitude fill my soul, because when you’re grateful, we all know there’s no anger. It’s impossible to be angry and grateful simultaneously. When you’re grateful, there is no fear. You can’t be fearful and grateful simultaneously." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Así que creo que las tendencias suelen ser cosas que deben evitarse." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The Book of Strange New Things by Michel Faber." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Compruebe sus datos” es lo que yo denomino la “maniobra suprema”." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Three to five billion new consumers are coming online in the next 6 years. Holy cow, that’s extraordinary. What do they need?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The Biology of Desire: Why Addiction Is Not a Disease by Marc Lewis." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“many forms of meditation in the world. Like when I study and work really hard, where it takes the ultimate amount of concentration, I can only do it for 45 minutes, maybe an hour. “I also figured out that I could use my workouts as a form of meditation because I concentrate so much on the muscle, I have my mind inside the" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Lo cierto es que he usado esta estrategia más para ayudarme a huir de malas inversiones que para detectar las buenas." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“expulsamos a un par de jefes de cada equipo SEAL por su incapacidad para mandar." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“First of all, if we’re serious all the time, we’ll wear out before we get the truly serious stuff done. Second, if this book were all stern looks and no winks, all productivity and no grab-assing, you’d remember very little. I agree with Tony Robbins (page 210) that information without emotion isn’t retained." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Ordinarily he was insane, but he had lucid moments when he was merely stupid. —HEINRICH HEINE, German critic and poet" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“How to Fly a Horse: The Secret History of Creation, Invention, and Discovery by Kevin Ashton." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“having" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Y el 99,9 por ciento de las veces no era porque no supieran disparar un arma," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Sports evolve when sacred cows are killed, when basic assumptions are tested. The same is true in life and in lifestyles." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Thoreau writes, ‘The really efficient laborer will be found not to crowd his day with work, but will saunter to his task surrounded by a wide halo of ease and leisure. There will be a wide margin for relaxation to his day. He is only earnest to secure the kernels of time, and does not exaggerate the value of the husk.’ Think of what a beautiful metaphor this is for not mistaking the husk—the outer accoutrements of productivity like busyness, or a full calendar, or a clever auto-responder—not mistaking those for the kernel, the core and substance of the actual work produced. And he then says, ‘Those who work much, do not work hard.’ I love that." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I can wait” → Being able to plan long-term, play the long game, and not misallocate your resources. “I can fast” → Being able to withstand difficulties and disaster. Training yourself to be uncommonly resilient and have a high pain tolerance." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Scarcity: Why Having Too Little Means So Much by Sendhil Mullainathan and Eldar Shafir." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Then, I did what I often do—whether considering a business decision, personal relationship, or otherwise—I asked myself the one question that helps answer many others . . . What would this look like if it were easy?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Reality is negotiable. Outside of science and law, all rules can be bent or broken, and it doesn't require being unethical" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Going 16 hours without eating generally provides the right balance of autophagy (look it up) and anabolism (muscle building)." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Casi siempre tenía que ver con su capacidad para escuchar," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I also have in mind that seemingly wealthy, but most terribly impoverished class of all, who have accumulated dross, but know not how to use it, or get rid of it, and thus have forged their own golden or silver fetters. —HENRY DAVID THOREAU (1817–1862)" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Deep Survival: Who Lives, Who Dies, and Why, by Laurence Gonzales." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I ask them, ‘How will you disrupt yourself, and how are you trying to disrupt yourself? If you’re not, you’re in for a real surprise.’ Find the smartest 20-somethings in your company. I don’t care if they’re in the mail room or where they are. Give them permission to figure out how they would take down your company.” PETER" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“From Bacteria to Bach and Back: The Evolution of Minds by Daniel C. Dennett." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“80% of the consequences flow from 20% of the causes" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Remembering that destination will help you make the single most important distinction in life, which is to distinguish between an opportunity to be seized and a temptation to be resisted." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Así que me he vuelto, creo, mucho más consciente con los años de la naturaleza problemática de un exceso de competitividad." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Yo suelo usar alguna fórmula del tipo: «Gracias por tu comentario. Siempre procuro mejorar. Mientras tanto, espero que encuentres lo que estás buscando»." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Pero en las primeras fases, cuando se está gestando la idea, tu apuesta se basa en gran medida en la calidad del equipo y en la conexión emocional que sientes con el producto." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“hay una forma mejor de hacer las cosas. Eso se debe a una falta de humildad…" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Dani declared that courage was more important than confidence. When you are operating out of courage, you are saying that no matter how you feel about yourself or your opportunities or the outcome, you are going to take a risk and take a step toward what you want." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What we fear doing is usually what we most need to do." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Las reglas de sentido común del «mundo real» son una frágil colección de ilusiones reforzadas por la sociedad." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Cómo me volvería menos competitivo para poder tener más éxito?”»." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Law 2: When given a choice … take both. Law" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Productos o servicios destinados a los consumidores. Productos de los que yo pudiera ser un ferviente usuario habitual, productos que cubrieran una necesidad personal." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“As someone who read exclusively nonfiction for nearly 15 years, I can tell you two things: It’s not productive to read two fact-based books at the same time (this is one), and fiction is better than sleeping pills for putting the happenings of the day behind you." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Da igual cuánta gente no te entienda. Lo importante es cuánta gente sí lo hace." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Always make new mistakes!” I actually get royalties of about $50 per year from Quotable Quotes for this one." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The first is to push yourself harder than you believe you’re capable of. You’ll find new depth inside yourself. The second is to put yourself in groups who share difficulties, discomfort. We used to call it ‘shared privation.’ You’ll find that when you have been through that kind of difficult environment, that you feel more strongly about that which you’re committed to. And finally, create some fear and make individuals overcome it." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Once you realize that you can turn off the noise without the world ending, you're liberated in a way that few people ever know" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Man’s Search for Meaning by Viktor Frankl." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“2. El 10 por ciento de la gente encontrará una manera de tomárselo todo como algo personal. Cuenta con ello y trátalo desde una perspectiva matemática." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Destinados al colectivo masculino con buen manejo de las tecnologías de entre veinticinco y cuarenta años de edad residentes en ciudades grandes de Estados Unidos, como San Francisco, Nueva York, Chicago, Los Ángeles, etc. (que me permitieran acelerar el crecimiento/la escalada con mi público)." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“¿NO HAS ENCONTRADO TU OBJETIVO GENERAL, ÚNICO EN LA VIDA? TAL VEZ NO SEA NECESARIO «Olvídate de tener un propósito. Está bien ser feliz sin tenerlo. La persecución de un propósito único ha arruinado muchas vidas.»" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Just Because You Exercise Doesn’t Mean You Deserve Sugar Water" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The superheroes you have in your mind (idols, icons, elite athletes, billionaires, etc.) are nearly all walking flaws who’ve maximized one or two strengths. Humans are imperfect creatures. You don’t “succeed” because you have no weaknesses; you succeed because you find your unique strengths and focus on developing habits around them. . . . Everyone is fighting a battle [and has fought battles] you know nothing about. The heroes in this book are no different. Everyone struggles." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Me di cuenta de que distanciarse de la situación, para poder ver lo que está pasando, es crucial." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What is the book (or books) you’ve given most as a gift, and why? Or what are one to three books that have greatly influenced your life? At some point about halfway through my 20-year career in the SEAL Teams, I read About Face by Colonel David H. Hackworth. I haven’t stopped reading it since. Hackworth came up through the ranks and served as an infantry officer in the Korean and Vietnam wars. He was revered by his men and respected by all who worked with him. While the stories of combat are incredible and there is much to be learned about battlefield tactics in the book, the real lessons for me are about leadership. I adapted many of his leadership principles over the years and still continue to learn from his experiences. Thanks for everything, Colonel Hackworth." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“3. En caso de duda, córtales el oxígeno." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I think up through probably 35, I was very much a control freak, because the size of the organizations I commanded, and I was part of, were small enough where I could micromanage them. I had a fairly forceful personality, and if you worked hard and studied hard, you could just about move all the chess pieces, no problem. Around age 35 to 40, as you get up to battalion level, which is about 600 people, suddenly, you’re going to have to lead it a different way, and what you’re really going to have to do is develop people. The advice I’d give to anyone young is it’s really about developing people who are going to do the work. Unless you are going to go do the task yourself, then the development time you spend on the people who are going to do that task, whether they are going to lead people doing it or whether they are actually going to do it, every minute you spend on that is leveraged, is exponential return." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Watch what people are cynical about, and one can often discover what they lack.”—George S. Patton" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“4. Si respondes, no te disculpes en exceso." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“There’s no difference between a pessimist who says, “Oh, it’s hopeless, so don’t bother doing anything,” and an optimist who says, “Don’t bother doing anything, it’s going to turn out fine anyway.” Either way, nothing happens." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“To be answered in the morning: I am grateful for . . . 1. __________ 2. __________ 3. __________ What would make today great? 1. __________ 2. __________ 3. __________ Daily affirmations. I am . . . 1. __________ 2. __________ 3. __________ To be filled in at night: 3 amazing things that happened today . . . 1. __________ 2. __________ 3. __________ (This is similar to Peter Diamandis’s “three wins” practice; see page 373.) How could I have made today better? 1. __________ 2. __________ 3. __________" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you are distressed by anything external, the pain is not due to the thing itself, but to your estimate of it; and this you have the power to revoke at any moment." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“La cuestión del monopolio: ¿Empiezas con una parte grande de un mercado pequeño? La cuestión del secreto: ¿Has identificado una oportunidad única que los demás no ven? La cuestión de la distribución: ¿Tienes alguna manera no sólo de fabricar sino también de distribuir tu producto?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“5. No puedes hacer entrar en razón a alguien sobre algo que no ha razonado por sí mismo." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Every billionaire suffers from the same problem. Nobody around them ever says, ‘Hey, that stupid idea you just had is really stupid." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The fairest rules are those to which everyone would agree if they did not know how much power they would have.”—John Rawls" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Suffering is a moment of clarity, when you can no longer deny the truth of a situation and are forced into uncomfortable change." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“6. «Intentar gustar a todo el mundo es un signo de mediocridad. Evitarás las decisiones difíciles y evitarás enfrentarte a la gente a la que debes enfrentarte.» — Colin Powell" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The information we gain that conflicts with our original assessment or conclusion, we conveniently ignore or dismiss, while the information that confirms our original decision makes us increasingly certain that our conclusion was correct." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The danger of maps, capable assistants, and planning is that you may end up living your life as planned. If you do, your potential cannot possibly exceed your expectations." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Amelia loves doing training runs in the rain and cold, as she knows her competition is probably opting out. This is an example of “rehearsing the worst-case scenario” to become more resilient" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Endings don’t have to be failures, especially when you choose to end a project or shut down a business. . . . Even the best gigs don’t last forever. Nor should they." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“You can’t reason someone out of something they didn’t reason themselves into." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Excitement is the more practical synonym for happiness, and it is precisely what you should strive to chase. It is the cure-all. When people suggest you follow your “passion” or your “bliss,” I propose that they are, in fact, referring to the same singular concept: excitement." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Which 20% of sources are causing 80% of my problems and unhappiness? 2. Which 20% of sources are resulting in 80% of my desired outcomes and happiness?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“To do or not to do? To try or not to try? Most people will vote no, whether they consider themselves brave or not. Uncertainty and the prospect of failure can be very scary noises in the shadows. Most people will choose unhappiness over uncertainty." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Someday' is disease that will take your dreams to the grave with you.." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“As I have heard said, a person’s success in life can usually be measured by the number of uncomfortable conversations he or she is willing to have. Resolve to do one thing every day that you fear. I got into this habit by attempting to contact celebrities and famous businesspeople for advice." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“self-correcting business architecture" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you can’t be first in a category, set up a new category you can be first in." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“A human being should be able to change a diaper, plan an invasion, butcher a hog, conn a ship, design a building, write a sonnet, balance accounts, build a wall, set a bone, comfort the dying, take orders, give orders, cooperate, act alone, solve equations, analyze a new problem, pitch manure, program a computer, cook a tasty meal, fight efficiently, die gallantly. Specialization is for insects." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The difference between winning and losing is most often not quitting.” This famous line from Walt Disney on willpower cannot be more true" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Brian Koppelman mentioned that he considers Haruki Murakami the world’s best writer of fiction. To boot, Murakami is an excellent long-distance runner. Here is what Murakami has to say about running, which can be applied to anything: Pain is inevitable. Suffering is optional." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“About Face, de David H. Hackworth. Otro" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Social media. That wonderland where we can flit from one superficial, jerkoff distraction to another, always remaining on the surface, never going deeper than an inch." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Language learning deserves special mention. It is, bar none, the best thing you can do to hone clear thinking." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What are bad recommendations you hear in your profession or area of expertise? Great, great question. In the world of writing, everyone wants to succeed immediately and without pain or effort. Really? Or they love to write books about how to write books, rather than actually writing . . . a book that might actually be about something. Bad advice is everywhere. Build a following. Establish a platform. Learn how to scam the system. In other words, do all the surface stuff and none of the real work it takes to actually produce something of value. The disease of our times is that we live on the surface. We’re like the Platte River, a mile wide and an inch deep. I always say, “If you want to become a billionaire, invent something that will allow people to indulge their own Resistance.” Somebody did invent it. It’s called the Internet. Social media. That wonderland where we can flit from one superficial, jerkoff distraction to another, always remaining on the surface, never going deeper than an inch. Real work and real satisfaction come from the opposite of what the web provides. They come from going deep into something—the book you’re writing, the album, the movie—and staying there for a long, long time." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What’s the worst that could happen? I encourage you to remember this often-neglected question as you begin to see the infinite possibilities outside of your current comfort zone. This period of collective panic is your big chance to dabble." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“For men, the “boner or no boner” test is a simple but excellent indicator of sleep quality, hormonal health (GH, FSH, testosterone), circadian rhythm timing, and more." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“One does not accumulate but eliminate.It is not daily increase but dailydecrease. The height of cultivationalways runs to simplicity." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“To avoid criticism, say nothing, do nothing, be nothing.”—Elbert Hubbard" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Dr. Maté has written several best-selling books, including the award-winning In the Realm of Hungry Ghosts: Close Encounters with Addiction." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Meridiano de sangre (Random House, 2016) [de Cormac McCarthy].»" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In theory there is no difference between theory and practice. But, in practice, there is.”—Jan L. A. van de Snepscheut" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Woe unto he who “microdoses” and gets hit like a freight train while checking in luggage at an airport" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“A cynic is a man who knows the price of everything and the value of nothing.”—Oscar Wilde" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The objective is to create freedom of time and place and use both however you want." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What advice would you give to a smart, driven college student about to enter the “real world”? Work harder than everyone else. Of course, that is easy when you love your job. But you might not love your first, or second, or even third job. That doesn’t matter. Work harder than everyone else. In order to get the job you love or start the company you want, you have to build your résumé, your reputation, and your bank account. The best way to do that: Outwork them all." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The World Doesn’t Need Your Explanation. On Saying “No”:" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“When you launch a new product, the first question to ask yourself is not “How is this new product better than the competition?” but “First what?” In other words, what category is this new product first in?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The secret to winning any game lies in not trying too hard." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Remember, my friends, never underestimate the power of one breath. Mental fitness and joy on demand both start here, with one breath." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“televisión de una hora de duración titulado: “A Chance in Hell: The Battle for Ramadi”.»" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Tao Te Ching by Lao Tzu (5 mentions) Atlas Shrugged by Ayn Rand (4) Sapiens by Yuval Noah Harari (4) Siddhartha by Hermann Hesse (4) The 4-Hour Workweek by Tim Ferriss (4) The Checklist Manifesto by Atul Gawande (4) Dune by Frank Herbert (3) Influence by Robert Cialdini (3)" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“How has a failure, or apparent failure, set you up for later success? Do you have a “favorite failure” of yours? Many, many moons ago, I used to be a corporate lawyer. I was an ambivalent corporate lawyer at best, and anyone could have told you that I was in the wrong profession, but still: I’d dedicated tons of time (three years of law school, one year of clerking for a federal judge, and six and a half years at a Wall Street firm, to be exact) and had lots of deep and treasured relationships with fellow attorneys. But the day came, when I was well along on partnership track, that the senior partner in my firm came to my office and told me that I wouldn’t be put up for partner on schedule. To this day, I don’t know whether he meant that I would never be put up for partner or just delayed for a good long while. All I know is that I embarrassingly burst into tears right in front of him—and then asked for a leave of absence. I left work that very afternoon and bicycled round and round Central Park in NYC, having no idea what to do next. I thought I’d travel. I thought I’d stare at the walls for a while. Instead—and it all happened so suddenly and cinematically that it might defy belief—I remembered that actually I had always wanted to be a writer. So I started writing that very evening. The next day I signed up for a class at NYU in creative nonfiction writing. And the next week, I attended the first session of class and knew that I was finally home. I had no expectation of ever making a living through writing, but it was crystal clear to me that from then on, writing would be my center, and that I would look for freelance work that would give me lots of free time to pursue it. If I had “succeeded” at making partner, right on schedule, I might still be miserably negotiating corporate transactions 16 hours a day. It’s not that I’d never thought about what else I might like to do other than law, but until I had the time and space to think about life outside the hermetic culture of a law practice, I couldn’t figure out what I really wanted to do." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Whenever you find yourself on the side of the majority, it is time to pause and reflect. —MARK TWAIN Anyone who lives within their means suffers from a lack of imagination. —OSCAR WILDE, Irish dramatist and novelist" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Reality is negotiable." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Treadmills kill your spirit." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“7. «Si quieres mejorar, debe satisfacerte que te consideren necio y estúpido.» — Epicteto" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Our sprint coach, Barry Ross, has a most unusual zoo. In fact, he can engineer mutants at will. His best female distance runner has deadlifted 415 lbs at a body weight of 132 lbs. His youngest male lifter, 11 years old, has dead-lifted 225 lbs at a body weight of 108 lbs." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“so many bad ideas that lead to authoritarian consequences begin with good intentions." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Many students come to me full of wonderful intentions hoping to change the world; they plan to spend their time helping the poor and disadvantaged. I tell them to first graduate and make a lot of money, and only then figure out how best to help those in need. Too often students can’t meaningfully help the disadvantaged now, even if it makes them feel good for trying to. I have seen so many former students in their late 30s and 40s struggling to make ends meet. They spent their time in college doing good rather than building their careers and futures. I warn students today to be careful how they use their precious time and to think carefully about when is the right time to help. It’s a well-worn cliché, but you have to help yourself before you help others. This is too often lost on idealistic students. I am often asked whether one should work in the private or public sector. I always advise working in the private sector, and wish I did this before entering politics and the public sector. The private sector teaches important skills like entrepreneurship that can then be applied to any area of work later on." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The Effective Executive," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Para entrenar: Black Flag, «My War», cara B. En general: White Buffalo." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Lo has intentado. Has fracasado. No importa. Inténtalo de nuevo. Fracasa otra vez. Fracasa mejor”." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Energy can neither be created nor destroyed. It can only change forms. The" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Whenever you find yourself on the side of the majority, it is time to pause and reflect.—MARK TWAIN" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“THE VALUE OF 5–10-MINUTE BREAKS The serial position effect refers to improved recall observed at the beginnings and ends of lists. Separately, these are called the primacy effect and recency effect, respectively. Memorizing a hypothetical list of 20 words, your recall might look something like this: This mid-list dip can be observed in study sessions as well, so a 90-minute session might resemble the below graph: We can dramatically improve recall by splitting that single session into two sessions of 45 minutes with a 10-minute break in between." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What does an igloo-dwelling millionaire do that a cubicle-dweller doesn’t? Follow an uncommon set of rules. How does a lifelong blue-chip employee escape to travel the world for a month without his boss even noticing? He uses technology to hide the fact. Gold is getting old. The New Rich (NR) are those who abandon the deferred-life plan and create luxury lifestyles in the present using the currency of the New Rich: time and mobility. This is an art and a science we will refer to as Lifestyle Design (LD)." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“You are forced to shed artificial constraints, like shedding a skin, to realize that you had the ability to renegotiate your reality all along. It just takes practice" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I use [Palumbo’s] protein powder, by Species Nutrition. Every morning, I roll downstairs and: 2 scoops of whey protein [Isolyze], ice, a bunch of powdered Starbucks coffee, some macadamia nut oil, and I make a shake. That’s the start." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you find yourself saying, “But I’m making so much money” about a job or project, pay attention. “But I’m making so much money,” or “But I’m making good money” is a warning sign that you’re probably not on the right track or, at least, that you shouldn’t stay there for long. Money can always be regenerated. Time and reputation cannot." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“You have to lift off the back foot while taking a step forward, or you will not be able to move ahead." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“currency of the New Rich: time and mobility. This is an art and a science we will refer to as Lifestyle Design (LD)." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Out on the edge you see all kinds of things you can’t" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“When they’re told that some people or ideas are wrong, hateful, or offensive, a light bulb should go off in their heads. That is the moment their curiosity should be piqued to find out for themselves whether it is indeed a “bad” thing." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The Happiest Baby on the Block by Harvey Karp. If you want to be a hands-on parent and also have some version of a career, this book is gold. I usually send it with another book called The Sleepeasy Solution, written by Jennifer Waldburger" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Una inversión que produce una rentabilidad financiera inmensa pero que me hace perder los nervios por completo, o me causa insomnio y berrinches durante un periodo largo de tiempo, NO es una buena inversión." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Anger is often what pain looks like when it shows itself in public." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“debes entrenarte para afrontar las críticas (o incluso disfrutar con ellas)." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The top 1% often succeed despite how they train, not because of it. Superior genetics, or a luxurious full-time schedule, make up for a lot." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Follow your curiosity, wherever you can find" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“(1) Define a to-do list and (2) define a not-to-do list. In general terms, there are but two questions:" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Ninety-nine percent of people in the world are convinced they are incapable of achieving great things, so they aim for the mediocre. The level of competition is thus fiercest for “realistic” goals, paradoxically making them the most time-and energy-consuming." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Porque un sueño es algo con lo que fantaseas y que probablemente nunca llegará a ocurrir. Una meta es algo que planificas, en lo que trabajas y que alcanzas." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Stumbling on Happiness by Daniel Gilbert (3) Superintelligence by Nick Bostrom (3) Surely You’re Joking, Mr. Feynman! by Richard P. Feynman (3) The 4-Hour Body by Tim Ferriss (3) The Bible (3) The Hard Thing About Hard Things by Ben Horowitz (3) The War of Art by Steven Pressfield (3) Watchmen by Alan Moore (3) Zero to One by Peter Thiel with Blake Masters (3)" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“¿Qué es lo que te gustaría cambiar o mejorar de ti?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“8. «Vivir bien es la mejor venganza.» — George Herbert" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The New Rich (NR) are those who abandon the deferred-life plan [save and retire after 20–40 years] and create luxury lifestyles in the present using the currency of the New Rich: time and mobility." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“A. H. Almaas: “Ultimately, your gift to the world is being who you are. It is both your gift and your fulfillment." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“This was not a war of nation versus nation, this was brother against brother in the most civilized cities on earth. To read Thucydides is to see our own world in microcosm. It’s the study of how democracies destroy themselves by breaking down into warring factions, the Few versus the Many." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“a resignation to 9-to-5 drudgery in exchange for (sometimes) relaxing weekends and the occasional keep-it-short-or-get-fired vacation." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“By working faithfully eight hours a day, you may eventually get to be a boss and work twelve hours a day. —ROBERT FROST," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“#6—“Trying to get everyone to like you is a sign of mediocrity. You’ll avoid the tough decisions, and you’ll avoid confronting the people who need to be confronted.”—Colin Powell" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Potencia tus habilidades en lugar de corregir tus debilidades" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“We are whatever we pretend to be." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Por suerte, multiplicar los resultados por diez no siempre requiere un esfuerzo diez veces mayor. Los cambios grandes pueden llegar en paquetes pequeños." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It’s not enough to use information for “something”—it needs to be immediate and important." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“it’s nice to know that when you get started each day seems to matter less than learning how to get started consistently, however" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The goal is fun and profit." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«Siempre es difícil responder a eso, porque lleva implícita la pregunta de por qué no lo he hecho ya. Pero diría que cuando miro hacia mi yo más joven del pasado, era increíblemente convencional, increíblemente competitivo. Y, cuando eres muy competitivo, te vuelves muy bueno en aquello en lo que compites contra otras personas. Pero lo haces a cambio de perderte muchas otras cosas. »Si eres un jugador de ajedrez" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«La robustez es preocuparse más por los pocos que valoran tu trabajo que por la multitud que lo odia (artistas); la fragilidad es preocuparse más por los pocos que odian tu trabajo que por la multitud que lo valora (políticos)». Opta por la robustez." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“You can tell the true character of a man by how his dog and his kids react to him.”   “If you don’t believe in God, you should believe in the technology that’s going to make us immortal." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Para cambiar radicalmente de vida no necesitas correr una carrera de cien kilómetros, ni doctorarte en nada, ni reinventarte por completo. Son las cosas pequeñas hechas con constancia las que se convierten en algo grande (como" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Andy Grove had the answer: For every metric, there should be another ‘paired’ metric that addresses adverse consequences of the first metric." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Liberty means responsibility. That is why most men dread it. —GEORGE BERNARD SHAW" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“instead they give me a new approach to thinking about the question so that I can solve it better on my own. Most “bad” recommendations" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Embrace uncertainty, groundlessness, and fear as the place where you’ll really learn and grow." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The vast majority of people will never find a job that can be an unending source of fulfillment, so that is not the goal here; to free time and automate income is." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What advice would you give to a smart, driven college student about to enter the “real world”? What advice should they ignore? Nobody really knows what the world and the job market will look like in 2040, hence nobody knows what to teach young people today. Consequently, it is likely that most of what you currently learn at school will be irrelevant by the time you are 40. So what should you focus on? My best advice is to focus on personal resilience and emotional intelligence. Traditionally, life has been divided into two main parts: a period of learning followed by a period of working. In the first part of life you built a stable identity and acquired personal and professional skills; in the second part of life you relied on your identity and skills to navigate the world, earn a living, and contribute to society. By 2040, this traditional model will become obsolete, and the only way for humans to stay in the game will be to keep learning throughout their lives and to reinvent themselves again and again. The world of 2040 will be a very different world from today, and an extremely hectic world. The pace of change is likely to accelerate even further. So people will need the ability to learn all the time and to reinvent themselves repeatedly—even at age 60." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“la clave en la vida es, por un lado, tener el valor de adentrarse en lo desconocido," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Piensa en la edad que tienes ahora y en la versión de ti mismo dentro de diez años." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Still struggling with a sense of purpose or mission? Roughly half a dozen people in this book (e.g., Robert Rodriguez) have suggested the book Start with Why by Simon Sinek." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In the last five years, what have you become better at saying no to? My biggest shift came after listening to a successful CEO talk about his philosophy for hiring people. When his company grew and he ran out of time to interview people himself, he had his employees rate new candidates on a 1–10 scale. The only stipulation was they couldn’t choose 7. It immediately dawned on me how many invitations I was receiving that I would rate as a 7—speeches, weddings, coffees, even dates. If I thought something was a 7, there was a good chance I felt obligated to do it. But if I have to decide between a 6 or an 8, it’s a lot easier to quickly determine whether or not I should even consider it." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Yet change is usually stressful, and after a certain age, most people don’t like to change. When you are 16, your entire life is change, whether you like it or not. Your body is changing, your mind is changing, your relationships are changing—everything is in flux. You are busy inventing yourself. By the time you are 40, you don’t want change. You want stability. But in the twenty-first century, you won’t be able to enjoy that luxury. If you try to hold on to some stable identity, some stable job, some stable worldview, you will be left behind, and the world will fly by you. So people will need to be extremely resilient and emotionally balanced to sail through this never-ending storm, and to deal with very high levels of stress. The problem is that it is very hard to teach emotional intelligence and resilience. It is not something you can learn by reading a book or listening to a lecture. The current educational model, devised during the 19th century Industrial Revolution, is bankrupt. But so far we haven’t created a viable alternative. So don’t trust the adults too much. In the past, it was a safe bet to trust adults, because they knew the world quite well, and the world changed slowly. But the 21st century is going to be different. Whatever the adults have learned about economics, politics, or relationships may be outdated. Similarly, don’t trust technology too much. You must make technology serve you, instead of you serving it. If you aren’t careful, technology will start dictating your aims and enslaving you to its agenda. So you have no choice but to really get to know yourself better. Know who you are and what you really want from life. This is, of course, the oldest advice in the book: know thyself. But this advice has never been more urgent than in the 21st century. Because now you have competition. Google, Facebook, Amazon, and the government are all relying on big data and machine learning to get to know you better and better. We are not living in the era of hacking computers—we are living in the era of hacking humans. Once the corporations and governments know you better than you know yourself, they could control and manipulate you and you won’t even realize it. So if you want to stay in the game, you have to run faster than Google. Good luck!" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Show me an incumbent bigco failing to adapt to change, I’ll show you top execs paid huge cash compensation for quarterly and annual goals." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Career specialists can’t externalize what they’ve internalized. Second nature is hard to teach." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Diferente, no sólo mejor" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“it’s often the tiny details that really thrill someone enough to make them tell all their friends about you." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Después pregúntate “¿Qué es lo que probablemente me diría a mí mismo si fuera una versión mayor de mí mismo?”." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Tener muy fuertes el glúteo medio, el músculo tensor de la fascia lata y el músculo vasto medial es esencial para un alineamiento completo rodilla-cadera y para la longevidad del rendimiento.»" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Excitement is the more practical synonym for happiness, and it is precisely what you should strive to chase." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Falta de tiempo es falta de prioridades." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“pero también es tener la sabiduría de dejar de explorar cuando encuentras algo en lo que vale la pena detenerse." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“una versión mayor de mí mismo?”." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“We’d all be happier and more successful if we could learn to be chefs more often—which just takes some self-awareness of the times we’re being a cook and an epiphany that it’s not actually as scary as it seems to reason independently and act on it." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“SCOTTY: She’s all yours, sir. All systems automated and ready. A chimpanzee and two trainees could run her! CAPTAIN KIRK: Thank you, Mr. Scott. I’ll try not to take that personally. —STAR TREK" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you spend 2 hours a day without an electronic device, looking your kid in the eye, talking to them and solving interesting problems, you will raise a different kid than someone who doesn’t do that." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“que vale la pena detenerse." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What Is Zen?: Plain Talk for a Beginner’s Mind by Norman Fischer." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“There is nothing that the busy man is less busy with than living; there is nothing harder to learn.” –Seneca" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Todos los teléfonos inteligentes dan problemas. Nosotros intentamos hacer felices a nuestros clientes”." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Having an unusually large goal is an adrenaline infusion that provides the endurance to overcome the inevitable trials and tribulations that go along with any goal. Realistic goals, goals restricted to the average ambition level, are uninspiring and will only fuel you through the first or second problem, at which point you throw in the towel." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Puede ser un lugar, una persona, una vocación." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“wisdom" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“El trabajo funcionará cuando no funcione ninguna otra cosa”»." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Outside of science and law, all rules can be bent or broken, and it doesn’t require being unethical." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It is much like goal-setting but differs in several fundamental respects: 1. The goals shift from ambiguous wants to defined steps. 2. The goals have to be unrealistic to be effective. 3. It focuses on activities that will fill the vacuum created when work is removed. Living like a millionaire requires doing interesting things and not just owning enviable things." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Ludwig Wittgenstein," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Named must your fear be before banish it you can. —YODA, from Star Wars: The Empire Strikes Back" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“La especialización es para los insectos" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Crazy Is a Compliment: The Power of Zigging When Everyone Else Zags." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Somos los que simulamos ser”.»" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“D: To work for yourself. NR: To have others work for you. D: To work when you want to. NR: To prevent work for work’s sake, and to do the minimum necessary for maximum effect (“minimum effective load”). D: To retire early or young. NR: To distribute recovery periods and adventures (mini-retirements) throughout life on a regular basis and recognize that inactivity is not the goal. Doing that which excites you is. D: To buy all the things you want to have. NR: To do all the things you want to do, and be all the things you want to be. If this includes some tools and gadgets, so be it, but they are either means to an end or bonuses, not the focus. D: To be the boss instead of the employee; to be in charge. NR: To be neither the boss nor the employee, but the owner. To own the trains and have someone else ensure they run on time. D: To make a ton of money. NR: To make a ton of money with specific reasons and defined dreams to chase, timelines and steps included. What are you working for? D: To have more. NR: To have more quality and less clutter. To have huge financial reserves but recognize that most material wants are justifications for spending time on the things that don’t really matter, including buying things and preparing to buy things. You spent two weeks negotiating your new Infiniti with the dealership and got $10,000 off? That’s great. Does your life have a purpose? Are you contributing anything useful to this world, or just shuffling papers, banging on a keyboard, and coming home to a drunken existence on the weekends? D: To reach the big pay-off, whether IPO, acquisition, retirement, or other pot of gold. NR: To think big but ensure payday comes every day: cash flow first, big payday second. D: To have freedom from doing that which you dislike. NR: To have freedom from doing that which you dislike, but also the freedom and resolve to pursue your dreams without reverting to work for work’s sake (W4W). After years of repetitive work, you will often need to dig hard to find your passions, redefine your dreams, and revive hobbies that you let atrophy to near extinction. The goal is not to simply eliminate the bad, which does nothing more than leave you with a vacuum, but to pursue and experience the best in the world." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Siddhartha by Hermann Hesse is recommended by many guests in this book. There is one specific takeaway that Naval Ravikant (page 546) has reinforced with me several times on our long walks over coffee. The protagonist, Siddhartha, a monk who looks like a beggar, has come to the city and falls in love with a famous courtesan named Kamala. He attempts to court her, and she asks, “What do you have?” A well-known merchant similarly asks, “What can you give that you have learned?” His answer is the same in both cases, so I’ve included the latter story here. Siddhartha ultimately acquires all that he wants. Merchant: “. . . If you are without possessions, how can you give?” Siddhartha: “Everyone gives what he has. The soldier gives strength, the merchant goods, the teacher instruction, the farmer rice, the fisherman fish.” Merchant: “Very well, and what can you give? What have you learned that you can give?” Siddhartha: “I can think, I can wait, I can fast.” Merchant: “Is that all?” Siddhartha: “I think that is all.” Merchant: “And of what use are they? For example, fasting, what good is that?” Siddhartha: “It is of great value, sir. If a man has nothing to eat, fasting is the most intelligent thing he can do. If, for instance, Siddhartha had not learned to fast, he would have had to seek some kind of work today, either with you, or elsewhere, for hunger would have driven him. But, as it is, Siddhartha can wait calmly. He is not impatient, he is not in need, he can ward off hunger for a long time and laugh at it. ” I think of Siddhartha’s answers often and in the following terms: “I can think” → Having good rules for decision-making, and having good questions you can ask yourself and others. “I can wait” → Being able to plan long-term, play the long game, and not misallocate your resources. “I can fast” → Being able to withstand difficulties and disaster. Training yourself to be uncommonly resilient and have a high pain tolerance." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Out on the edge you see all kinds of things you can’t see from the center. Big, undreamed-of things—the people on the edge see them first.” —Kurt Vonnegut “Routine, in an intelligent man, is a sign of ambition.” —W.H. Auden" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you’ve got enough money to solve the problem, you don’t have the problem.” In the beginning of your career, you spend time to earn money. Once you hit your stride in any capacity, you should spend money to earn time, as the latter is nonrenewable. It can be hard to make and maintain this gear shift, so the above question is in my regular journaling rotation." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Too much free time is no more than fertilizer for self-doubt and assorted mental tail-chasing. Subtracting the bad does not create the good. It leaves a vacuum. Decreasing income-driven work isn’t the end goal. Living more—and becoming more—is." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Dime algo que sea verdad y con lo que muy poca gente esté de acuerdo”.»" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“all information and interruptions that are irrelevant, unimportant, or unactionable." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you go out there and start making noise and making sales, people will find you. Sales cure all. You can talk about how great your business plan is and how well you are going to do. You can make up your own opinions, but you cannot make up your own facts. Sales cure all." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Because of that, I realized that the outcome is not the outcome. In other words, what we think of as endpoints to a goal are really just forks in a road that is endlessly forking. In the big picture of our lives, we really don’t know whether a particular success or failure is actually helping or hurting us. So the metric I now use to judge my efforts and goals is: Did I do my best, given who I was and what I knew at that particular time? And what can I learn from the outcome to make my best better next time?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you don’t give young men a good and useful group to belong to, they will create a bad group to belong to. But one way or another, they’re going to create a group, and they’re going to find something, an adversary, where they can demonstrate their prowess and their unity." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“often in people’s 30s or 40s, a stage where you begin crafting your own language for what you do as an increasingly “strong poet”—you make your craft your own and view your life as more self-expression than simply playing out other people’s roles for you." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“As I write this, I’m sitting in a café in Paris overlooking the Luxembourg Garden, just off of Rue Saint-Jacques. Rue Saint-Jacques is likely the oldest road in Paris, and it has a rich literary history. Victor Hugo lived a few blocks from where I’m sitting. Gertrude Stein drank coffee and F. Scott Fitzgerald socialized within a stone’s throw. Hemingway wandered up and down the sidewalks, his books percolating in his mind, wine no doubt percolating in his blood. I came to France to take a break from everything. No social media, no email, no social commitments, no set plans . . . except one project. The month had been set aside to review all of the lessons I’d learned from nearly 200 world-class performers I’d interviewed on The Tim Ferriss Show, which recently passed 100,000,000 downloads. The guests included chess prodigies, movie stars, four-star generals, pro athletes, and hedge fund managers. It was a motley crew. More than a handful of them had since become collaborators in business and creative projects, spanning from investments to indie film. As a result, I’d absorbed a lot of their wisdom outside of our recordings, whether over workouts, wine-infused jam sessions, text message exchanges, dinners, or late-night phone calls. In every case, I’d gotten to know them well beyond the superficial headlines in the media. My life had already improved in every area as a result of the lessons I could remember. But that was the tip of the iceberg. The majority of the gems were still lodged in thousands of pages of transcripts and hand-scribbled notes. More than anything, I longed for the chance to distill everything into a playbook. So, I’d set aside an entire month for review (and, if I’m being honest, pain au chocolat), to put together the ultimate CliffsNotes for myself. It would be the notebook to end all notebooks. Something that could help me in minutes but be read for a lifetime." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“People who avoid criticism will fail." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If the potential payoff is mediocre or average, so is your effort." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Man is so made that he can only find relaxation from one kind of labor by taking up another. —ANATOLE FRANCE, author of The Crime of Sylvestre Bonnard" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The War of Art," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«Tal vez suene demencial, pero me miro al espejo y me sonrío a mí mismo…" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Nuestro objetivo no es crear un negocio lo más grande posible, sino un negocio que nos moleste lo menos posible." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If the commitment is to a long-term goal and not to a series of smaller intermediate goals, then only one decision needs to be made and adhered to. Clear, simple, straightforward. Much easier to maintain than having to make small decision after small decision to stay the course when dealing with each step along the way. This provides far too many opportunities to inadvertently drift from your chosen goal. The single decision is one of the most powerful tools in the toolbox." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Mondays would be squats and all other leg assistance. Tuesdays would be off. Wednesdays would be bench with chest assistance and a lot of tricep work. I would come in Thursdays, after pre-fatiguing the triceps on Wednesday, and only hit shoulders [primary go-to exercises: seated behind-the-neck barbell press, working up to 400-plus pounds]. I would deadlift on Friday [with light squats as a warmup], do all of my back work. Saturday would be a light bench day for recovery using wide-grip bench, flies, etc., with occasional smaller exercises" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Creo que el hecho de no tomarse las cosas demasiado en serio tiene un gran poder»." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What are the top-three activities that I use to fill time to feel as though I’ve been productive?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“you never want to solve a research problem with language. You" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“A qué problema te enfrentas a diario que aún no ha sido resuelto?» o «Dime un negocio fantástico que aún no haya sido creado por nadie»." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I don’t create art to get high-dollar projects, I do high-dollar projects so I can create more art." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It’s okay to have a desire. But pick a big one and pick it carefully. Drop the small ones." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Many of the one-liners teach volumes. Some summarize excellence in an entire field in one sentence. As Josh Waitzkin (page 577), chess prodigy and the inspiration behind Searching for Bobby Fischer, might put it, these bite-sized learnings are a way to “learn the macro from the micro.” The process of piecing them together was revelatory. If I thought I saw “the Matrix” before, I was mistaken, or I was only seeing 10% of it. Still, even that 10%—“ islands” of notes on individual mentors—had already changed my life and helped me 10x my results. But after revisiting more than a hundred minds as part of the same fabric, things got very interesting very quickly. For the movie nerds among you, it was like the end of The Sixth Sense or The Usual Suspects: “The red door knob! The fucking Kobayashi coffee cup! How did I not notice that?! It was right in front of me the whole time!” To help you see the same, I’ve done my best to weave patterns together throughout the book, noting where guests have complementary habits, beliefs, and recommendations. The completed jigsaw puzzle is much greater than the sum of its parts." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Sure, that sounds kinda cool,” I’d say, dropping it in the calendar. Later, I’d pay the price of massive distraction and overwhelm. My agenda became a list of everyone else’s agendas. Saying yes to too much “cool” will bury you alive and render you a B-player, even if you have A-player skills. To develop your edge initially, you learn to set priorities; to maintain your edge, you need to defend against the priorities of others." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“When you feel overwhelmed or unfocused, what do you do? What questions do you ask yourself? Have I had enough sleep? Have I eaten? Would it be a good idea to go for a short walk? And once those have been answered, or fixed, if there’s an actual situation that’s overwhelming: Is there anything I can do to fix this? Is there anyone who actually has information or advice about this I can call and talk to? If it’s not actually a situation, just me being sad and moody and unfocused: How long has it been since I actually wrote something? Stop doing whatever else I am doing because it isn’t actually work, and go and write something." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In order to ‘have’ you must ‘do,’ and in order to ‘do’ you must ‘be.’” Terry Crews" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Cuando se trata del futuro, es mucho más importante tener imaginación que tener razón”, de Alvin Toffler.»" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“happens" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«Dime algo en lo que tú creas y otras personas encuentran demencial»." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“deontologist believes that for something to be ethically correct, it must abide by a predefined set of moral rules or ideologies, and if an action breaks those rules then it is immoral, regardless of the outcome. A consequentialist believes that the moral value of an action purely depends on its outcome—the act itself doesn’t carry moral weight, all that matters is whether its consequences are good or bad overall." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Psych by Dr. Judd Biasiotto." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you don’t make mistakes, you’re not working on hard enough problems. And that’s a big mistake.” –Frank Wilczek" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“One of the world’s great investors once said to me, “Tom, what do you consider the number-one failing of CEOs?” After I hemmed and hawed, he said, “They don’t read enough." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Learn more, know less." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Nothing you face today will be harder than what you just did." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“¡Si lo que hago suena razonable a la mayoría de la gente, entonces no estoy trabajando en un espacio lo bastante creativo e innovador!»" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Way of Life app." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you could have a gigantic billboard anywhere with anything on it, what would it say and why? My message would be: “Sugar is toxic.” Sugar and other natural or artificial sweeteners are among the most addictive agents in our environment. When consumed in quantities that exceed the rate of metabolism in muscle or the brain, sugar is converted to fat, resulting in insulin resistance, obesity, and an increased risk of many other diseases, including cancers. While consuming fats and proteins evokes a feeling of satiety, consuming sugars induces a desire for more sugar within an hour or so. We evolved this addiction because, in the not-so-distant past, adding fat to our bodies at the end of a growing season when fruits were ripe was essential for surviving until the next growing season. But today, sugar is available all year round and is one of the cheapest foods available. So we continually add fat to our bodies. We may be approaching a time when sugar is responsible for more early deaths in America than cigarette smoking. I have written and lectured extensively on this subject over the past ten years as our understanding of the biochemical basis for the toxicity of sugar, especially the link to cancer, has become more clear." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What are you putting off out of fear? Usually, what we most fear doing is what we most need to do. That phone call, that conversation, whatever the action might be—it is fear of unknown outcomes that prevents us from doing what we need to do. Define the worst case, accept it, and do it. I’ll repeat something you might consider tattooing on your forehead: What we fear doing most is usually what we most need to do. As I have heard said, a person’s success in life can usually be measured by the number of uncomfortable conversations he or she is willing to have. Resolve to do one thing every day that you fear. I got into this habit by attempting to contact celebrities and famous businesspeople for advice." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“When you complain, nobody wants to help you,’ and it’s the simplest thing and so plainly spoken. Only he could really say that brutal, honest truth, but it’s true, right? If you spend your time focusing on the things that are wrong, and that’s what you express and project to people you know, you don’t become a source of growth for people, you become a source of destruction for people. That draws more destructiveness." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What is the opposite of happiness? Sadness? No." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Who are the 20% of people who produce 80% of your enjoyment and propel you forward, and which 20% cause 80% of your depression, anger, and second-guessing?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“buscar un mercado antes de idear un producto es más inteligente que lo contrario." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Being busy is not the same as being productive. In fact, being busy is a form of laziness -- lazy thinking and indiscriminate action." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Solio" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Can they redistribute retirement throughout life to make it more affordable?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“track of how many times we’ve been rejected. Keeping track of how many times it didn’t work. Keeping track of all the times someone has broken our heart or double-crossed us or let us down. Of course, we can keep track of those things, but why? Why keep track of them? Are they making us better? “Wouldn’t it make more sense to keep track of the other stuff? To keep track of all the times it worked?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Hay siete preguntas que Peter recomienda que se formulen a sí mismos todos los fundadores de startups. Consulta su obra De cero a uno" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“not only use all the dreams that I have, but all that I can borrow." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Book your A list for after your first 10 pitches." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“You won’t take a bullet for pleasure or power, but you will for meaning." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“the opposite of happiness is—here’s the clincher—boredom." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Each delegated task must be both time-consuming and well-defined. If you’re running around like a chicken with its head cut off and assign your VA to do that for you, it doesn’t improve the order of the universe." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The following resources are all free and complement lessons in this book. Many of them provide jumping-off points to tools I now use on a daily or weekly basis. Links to all “most gifted” and “most recommended” books in Tribe of Mentors—tim.blog/ booklist" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Sometimes you need to allow life to save you from getting what you want." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Tons of people deserve to be successful because they’re supersmart and interesting and work hard, but they just haven’t had the luck." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Make Every Man Want You: How to Be So Irresistible You’ll Barely Keep from Dating Yourself!," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Service to others is the rent you pay for your room here on earth.” –Muhammad Ali Legendary American professional boxer and activist" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The first principle is that you must not fool yourself, and you are the easiest person to fool. —RICHARD P. FEYNMAN, Nobel Prize–winning physicist" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The concept of lifestyle design as a replacement for multi-staged career planning is sound. It’s more flexible and allows you to test different lifestyles without committing to a 10- or 20-year retirement plan that can fail due to market fluctuations outside of your control." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“finding a market before designing a product is smarter than the reverse." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“A schedule defends from chaos and whim. —ANNIE DILLARD, winner of Pulitzer Prize in nonfiction, 1975" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I’d helped kick caffeine withdrawal the week before. I’d given him an l-tyrosine cocktail and," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Either you’re in, or you’re in the way.” Often, we chase after people who aren’t “in,” who, for whatever reason, don’t fit into our lives or our business. We waste time with these people when our focus should be on the people who are in." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Thoreau writes, ‘The really efficient laborer will be found not to crowd his day with work, but will saunter to his task surrounded by a wide halo of ease and leisure. There will be a wide margin for relaxation to his day. He is only earnest to secure the kernels of time, and does not exaggerate the value of the husk.’ Think" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Often when you think you’re at the end of something, you’re at the beginning of something else.” –Fred Rogers" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The War of Art by Steven Pressfield. This book has a magical, activating quality" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you don’t make mistakes, you’re not working on hard enough problems. And that’s a big mistake.” –Frank Wilczek American theoretical physicist, Nobel Prize winner" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Not-to-do lists are often more effective than to-do lists for upgrading performance. The reason is simple. What you don't do determines what you can do." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Giving What We Can, que insta a la gente a comprometerse a dar al menos el 10 por ciento de sus ingresos" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The man who tries methods, ignoring principles, is sure to have trouble." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“YOU TOOK YOUR SHOT.” Instantly I felt free and in control. I knew from then on that I could have the courage to fail on my own terms. From that moment, I decided that if I was going to succeed or fail, it was going to be up to me. I was changed forever." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“my soul doesn’t speak in thoughts at all—it speaks in feelings, images, and clues." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Getting Real: The Smarter, Faster, Easier Way to Build a Successful Web Application, which is available for free at gettingreal.37signals.com." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Creation is a better means of self-expression than possession; it is through creating, not possessing, that life is revealed." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“When I let go of what I am, I become what I might be.” –Lao Tzu" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“usar el sufrimiento para encontrar claridad. Si se analiza el sufrimiento en lugar de ignorarlo," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Other recession-born babies include Monopoly, Apple, Clif Bar, Scrabble, KFC, Domino’s Pizza, FedEx, and Microsoft. This is no coincidence, as economic downturns produce discounted infrastructure, outstanding freelancers at bargain prices, and rock-bottom advertising deals—all impossible when everyone is optimistic." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Retirement Is Worst-Case-Scenario Insurance. Retirement planning is like life insurance. It should be viewed as nothing more than a hedge against the absolute worst-case scenario: in this case, becoming physically incapable of working and needing a reservoir of capital to survive." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Part of knowing who you are is knowing who you’re not." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Una barrita de proteínas Clif Builder de veinte gramos con sabor a chocolate y mantequilla de cacahuete." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Rework and Remote: Office Not Required." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Study the Opposites In addition to studying his competition in tech and early-stage investing, Marc studies value investors on the completely opposite side of the spectrum, such as Warren Buffett and Seth Klarman. This doesn’t mean they invest in the same types of companies; rather, the synergy is related to first principles." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Anything worth doing is worth doing slowly.” –Mae West" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“There is no way to happiness—happiness is the way.” –THICH NHAT HANH Vietnamese Buddhist monk and Nobel" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“There’s the instant, unconscious, automatic thinking and then there’s the slower, conscious, rational, deliberate thinking." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“When you feel overwhelmed or unfocused, what do you do? Whenever I feel overwhelmed, I complain to my wife about it. After listening patiently for about 30 seconds, she generally tells me to STFU. Then I meditate or work out." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you can't define or act upon it, forget it." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“When we feel pain in one time zone—meaning past, present, or future—we just switch to another time zone rather than change, because change brings so much uncertainty and so much instability and so much fear to people." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Tracking anything is better than tracking nothing. If you are very overweight, very weak, very inflexible, or very anything negative, tracking even a mediocre variable will help you develop awareness that leads to the right behavioral changes. This underscores an encouraging lesson: you don’t have to get it all right. You just have to be crystal clear on a few concepts." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Be a member of your target market and don’t speculate what others need or will be willing to buy." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“We’re wired completely opposite in that sense. Basically, he’s betting against change. We’re betting for change. When he makes a mistake, it’s because something changes that he didn’t expect. When we make a mistake, it’s because something doesn’t change that we thought would. We could not be more different in that way. But" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Celebrate the childlike mind.” Steve Jurvetson" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What information consumes is rather obvious: it consumes the attention of its recipients. Hence, a wealth of information creates a poverty of attention and a need to allocate that attention efficiently among the overabundance of information sources that might consume it. —HERBERT SIMON, recipient of Nobel Memorial Prize in Economics8 and the A.M. Turing Award, the “Nobel Prize of Computer Science" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Bruce Pandolfini, Josh’s original chess teacher, started their first class by taking him in reverse. The board was empty, except for three pieces in an endgame scenario: king and pawn against king." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Most-gifted or recommended books? Man’s Search for Meaning by Viktor Frankl The Fourth Turning by William Strauss (Also, Generations by William Strauss, which was gifted to Tony by Bill Clinton) Mindset by Carol Dweck (for parenting) As a Man Thinketh by" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Retirement as a goal or final redemption is flawed for at least three solid reasons: a. It is predicated on the assumption that you dislike what you are doing during the most physically capable years of your life. This is a nonstarter—nothing can justify that sacrifice. b. Most people will never be able to retire and maintain even a hotdogs-for-dinner standard of living. Even one million is chump change in a world where traditional retirement could span 30 years and inflation lowers your purchasing power 2–4% per year. The math doesn’t work.3 The golden years become lower-middle-class life revisited. That’s a bittersweet ending. c. If the math does work, it means that you are one ambitious, hardworking machine. If that’s the case, guess what? One week into retirement, you’ll be so damn bored that you’ll want to stick bicycle spokes in your eyes. You’ll probably opt to look for a new job or start another company. Kinda defeats the purpose of waiting, doesn’t it?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Marc Andreessen (here) long ago referred to the above double-/triple-threat concept, citing Scott’s writing, as “even the secret formula to becoming a CEO. All successful CEOs are like this.” He reiterated that you could also cultivate this in school by getting unusual combinations of degrees, like engineering + MBA, law degree + MBA, or undergrad physics + economics." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“By focusing inward on yourself as a writer instead of outward on what you think readers will want to read, you’ll end up creating the best and most original work, and that one-in-a-thousand person who happens to love it will end up finding their way to you." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It’s not what you look at that matters, it’s what you see.”—Henry David Thoreau" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Out of Control by Kevin Kelly" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“You don’t “succeed” because you have no weaknesses; you succeed because you find your unique strengths and focus on developing habits around them. . . . Everyone is fighting a battle [and has fought battles] you know nothing about. The heroes in this book are no different. Everyone struggles." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Homo Deus: A Brief History of" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Once you assess your own skill and the situation, often things change. As long as you stop and really look, I think people’s lives will change kind of radically, especially for women. Women are very, very quick to say they’re scared. That’s something I really want to change." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Usually, the answer is, “You can die.” Then I answer back, “I’d rather die doing something I feel is great and amazing rather than be safe and comfortable living a life I hate." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Desire is a contract that you make with yourself to be unhappy until you get what you want." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“started out basically imagining I was writing for a stadium full of replicas of myself—which made things easy because I already knew exactly what topics interested them, what writing style they liked, what their sense of humor was, etc." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Hacer menos trabajo fútil para concentrarse en cosas de mayor importancia personal para uno NO es pereza. Esto nos resulta difícil de aceptar a la mayoría porque nuestra cultura recompensa el sacrificio personal en lugar de la productividad personal." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Somewhere between college graduation and your second job, a chorus enters your internal dialogue: Be realistic and stop pretending. Life isn’t like the movies." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Every writer in this book has a slightly different process, but they all start with the same thing: a blank page." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“This book is for anyone who is sick of the deferred-life plan and wants to live life large instead of postpone it." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The Silver Spoon, the best-selling Italian cookbook of the last 50 years. To" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Work hard to beat the competition.” The truth is that competition is the opposite of creativity. If I am working hard to beat the competition, it actually prevents me from thinking creatively to make all concepts of competition obsolete." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Our fears are always more numerous than our dangers.”—Seneca the Younger" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The genuine love for reading itself, when cultivated, is a superpower. We live in the age of Alexandria, when every book and every piece of knowledge ever written down is a fingertip away. The means of learning are abundant—it’s the desire to learn that’s scarce." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Those moments show me that this whole thing is bigger than me. It’s the realization that there is a “will to pleasure,” a “will to power” and, in the words of Viktor Frankl, a “will to meaning.” You won’t take a bullet for pleasure or power, but you will for meaning." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“true fulfillment comes from love of the process." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Happiness, or at least peace, is the sense that nothing is missing in this moment." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Creativity operates differently. You work hard because you’re inspired to, not because you have to. Work becomes fun, and you have energy for days because this life is not a “young man’s game.” It is an “inspired person’s game.” The keys belong to whoever is inspired, and no specific age, sex, gender, or cultural background has a monopoly on inspiration." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“A complex system that works is invariably found to have evolved from a simple system that worked. A complex system designed from scratch never works and cannot be patched up to make it work. You have to start over, beginning with a working simple system.”—John Gall" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“So, my advice to my 30-year-old self is, don’t be a donkey. You can do everything you want to do. You just need foresight and patience." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“picked one book out of dozens based on reader reviews and the fact that the authors had actually done what I wanted to do. If the task is how-to in nature, I only read accounts that are “how I did it” and autobiographical. No speculators or wannabes are worth the time. 2. Using the book to generate intelligent and specific questions, I contacted 10 of the top authors and agents in the world" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The player of the inner game comes to value the art of relaxed concentration above all other skills; he discovers the true basis for self-confidence; and he learns that the secret to winning any game lies in not trying too hard." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“descubrió GiveWell.org," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Create slack, as no one will give it to you." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Top academic institutions are wonderful, but there are unrecognized benefits to not coming out of one. Grads from top schools are funneled into high-income 80-hour-per-week jobs, and 15–30 years of soul-crushing work has been accepted as the default path." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The NR aims to distribute “mini-retirements” throughout life instead of hoarding the recovery and enjoyment for the fool’s gold of retirement. By working only when you are most effective, life is both more productive and more enjoyable." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“When you’re creative, you render competition obsolete, because there is only one you, and no one can do things exactly the way you do. Never worry about the competition. When you’re creative, you can, in fact, cheer others on with the full knowledge that their success will undoubtedly be your own." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Leadership on the Line by Ronald A. Heifetz and Marty Linsky," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Whenever you find yourself on the side of the majority, it is time to pause and reflect. —MARK TWAIN" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Next was learning that 4,000 calories equals about a pound of fat. I know that’s an oversimplification, but that’s okay. Oversimplifying is one of the next things I’ll mention as a tool. But if 4,000 is roughly a pound of fat, and my BMR makes it pretty easy to shave off some huge number of calories per day, it suddenly becomes very clear how to lose lots of weight without even doing any exercise. Add in some calculations on how many calories you burn doing, say, 30 minutes of exercise and you can pretty quickly come up with a formula that looks something like: BMR = 2,900 Actual intake = 1,800 Deficit from diet = BMR – actual intake = 1,100 Burned from 30 minutes cardio = 500 Total deficit = deficit from diet – burned from 30 minutes cardio = 1,600" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I realized that I had to let people leave my life, never to return. Every relationship I have in my life, from family and friends to business partners, must be a voluntary relationship. My wife can leave at any time. Family members can call me or not. Business partners can decide to move on, and it’s all okay. But the same is true on my end. If I say I’m ready to move on and someone doesn’t accept that, now we have a problem. I remember trying to move on from a very close friend because he was displaying behaviors I wasn’t comfortable with." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Life is too short to be small. —BENJAMIN DISRAELI" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“People can’t believe that most of the ultrasuccessful companies in the world do not manufacture their own products, answer their own phones, ship their own products, or service their own customers. There are hundreds of companies that exist to pretend to work for someone else and handle these functions, providing rentable infrastructure to anyone who knows where to find them." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Cómo prosperar en un futuro incierto? Elige el plan con más opciones. El mejor plan es el que te permita cambiar de planes.»" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“success can usually be measured by the number of uncomfortable conversations we are willing to have, and by the number of uncomfortable actions we are willing to take." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“trade a short-term, incremental gain for a potential longer-term, game-changing upside?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If we continue to develop our technology without wisdom or prudence, our servant may prove to be our executioner.”—Omar N. Bradley" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“building trust is a powerful door to possibility." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“To boil water, the MED is 212°F (100°C) at standard air pressure. Boiled is boiled. Higher temperatures will not make it “more boiled.” Higher temperatures just consume more resources that could be used for something else more productive." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“While people often say there’s not enough time, remember that you’ll always have less attention than time. Full attention is where you do your best work, and everyone’s going to be looking to rip it from you. Protect and preserve it." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The goal wasn’t specific enough. I hadn’t defined alternate activities that would replace the initial workload. Therefore, I just continued working, even though there was no financial need. I needed to feel productive and had no other vehicles. This is how most people work until death: “I’ll just work until I have X dollars and then do what I want.” If you don’t define the “what I want” alternate activities, the X figure will increase indefinitely to avoid the fear-inducing uncertainty of this void." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It works like this: Reseller A sells the product for your recommended advertised price of $50, then reseller B sells it for $45 to compete with A, and then C sells it for $40 to compete with A and B. In no time at all, no one is making profit from selling your product and reorders disappear. Customers are now accustomed to the lower pricing and the process is irreversible. The product is dead and you need to create a new product. This is precisely the reason why so many companies need to create new product after new product month after month. It’s a headache." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In theory there is no difference between theory and practice. But, in practice, there is." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“So if you’re planning to do something with your life, if you have a 10-year plan of how to get there, you should ask: Why can’t you do this in 6 months? Sometimes, you have to actually go through the complex, 10-year trajectory. But it’s at least worth asking whether that’s the story you’re telling yourself, or whether that’s the reality." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Advertising" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you need 15 minutes in the sun to trigger a melanin response, 15 minutes is your MED for tanning. More than 15 minutes is redundant and will just result in burning and a forced break from the beach. During this forced break from the beach, let’s assume one week, someone else who heeded his natural 15-minute MED will be able to fit in four more tanning sessions. He is four shades darker, whereas you have returned to your pale pre-beach self." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What policy was I following that produced this bad outcome, and do I still expect that policy to give the best results overall, occasional bad outcomes notwithstanding?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Five days a week, I read my goals before I go to sleep and when I wake up. There are 10 goals around health, family, business, etc., with expiration dates, and I update them every 6 months." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“THE DANGER OF BIG QUESTIONS Most of the time, “What should I do with my life?” is a terrible question. “What should I do with this tennis serve?” “What should I do with this line at Starbucks?” “What should I do with this traffic jam?” “How should I respond to the anger I feel welling up in my chest?” These are better questions. Excellence is the next five minutes, improvement is the next five minutes, happiness is the next five minutes." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Ho imparato che niente e impossibile, e anche che quasi niente e facile … (I’ve learned that nothing is impossible, and that almost nothing is easy …)" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It’s not what you know, it’s what you do consistently." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Persistence matters more than talent. The student with straight As is irrelevant if the student sitting next to him with Bs has more passion." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you can’t measure it, you can’t improve it." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“n>" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Everybody’s impatient at a macro, and just so patient at a micro, wasting your days worrying about years. I’m not worried about my years, because I’m squeezing the fuck out of my seconds, let alone my days. It’s going to work out." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Do not seek to follow in the footsteps of the wise, instead, seek what they sought.” –Matsuo Bashō" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Jayber Crowe (by Wendell Berry)" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“go through an exercise that helps me to get present to the reality of the situation. I tell my story to myself from the perspective of a victim, then I tell the exact same story from a place of 100 percent responsibility. Victim: “I was late to an important event because my girlfriend took too long to get ready. It’s not my fault.” Responsible: “I acknowledge my breakdown in being late. In the future I am committed to making sure that I do everything I can to ensure that I’m on time." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“As Brandon Stanton put it, “Sometimes you need to allow life to save you from what you want." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What is the book (or books) you’ve given most as a gift, and why? Or what are one to three books that have greatly influenced your life? The 15 Commitments of Conscious Leadership by Jim Dethmer and Diana Chapman. Though most people will typically blame other people or circumstances in their life when they are unhappy, Buddhists believe that we are the cause of our own suffering. We can’t control the fact that bad things are going to happen, but it’s how we react to them that really matters, and that we can learn to control. Even if you don’t accept that this is true in all cases, giving it consideration in moments of unhappiness or anxiety will often give you a new perspective and allow you to relax your grip on a negative story. This book is an approachable manual for how to do that tactically, and the lessons it teaches have transformed the way I engage with difficult situations and thus reduced the suffering I experience in big and small ways. Though it is written with leaders in mind, I find myself recommending it to everyone, and we give it to every new employee at Asana." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Nunca automatices lo que pueda eliminarse y nunca delegues algo que pueda automatizarse o racionalizarse." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The Art of Simple Food by Chez Panisse founder Alice Waters lined" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It starts by standing with the poor, listening to voices unheard, and recognizing potential where others see despair. It demands investing as a means, not an end, daring to go where markets have failed and aid has fallen short. It makes capital work for us, not control us. It thrives on moral imagination: the humility to see the world as it is, and the audacity to imagine the world as it could be. It’s having the ambition to learn at the edge, the wisdom to admit failure, and the courage to start again. It requires patience and kindness, resilience and grit: a hard-edged hope. It’s leadership that rejects complacency, breaks through bureaucracy, and challenges corruption. Doing what’s right, not what’s easy. It’s the radical idea of creating hope in a cynical world. Changing the way the world tackles poverty and building a world based on dignity." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Live the questions so that, one day, you will live yourself into the answers. . . ." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In the context of body redesign, there are two fundamental MEDs to keep in mind: To remove stored fat → do the least necessary to trigger a fat-loss cascade of specific hormones. To add muscle in small or large quantities → do the least necessary to trigger local (specific muscles) and systemic (hormonal2) growth mechanisms." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Therefore, to be furious and enraged and bitter that people don’t get all of who we are is a really a cruel piece of immaturity." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In reality, most people aren’t “bad” at languages. They’re bad, like me, at memorizing boring, zero-gratification tables that make DMV forms look sexy." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What advice would you give to a smart, driven college student about to enter the “real world”? What advice should they ignore? Embrace the suck for a while. Chances are your first job is going to stink and your living conditions won’t be much better. Enjoy the scrappy years, ’cuz they’ll make you self-sufficient way faster. Ignore anyone who tells you to go for security over experience." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“There have been several points in my life—among them, just before I was fired from TrueSAN and just before I escaped the U.S. to avoid taking an Uzi into McDonald’s—at which I saw my future as another fat man in a midlife-crisis BMW. I simply looked at those who were 15–20 years ahead of me on the same track, whether a director of sales or an entrepreneur in the same industry, and it scared the hell out of me." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It is more profitable to be a big fish in a small pond than a small undefined fish in a big pond." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Once you say you’re going to settle for second, that’s what happens to you in life. —JOHN F. KENNEDY" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“How can I possibly explain that what I do with my time and what I do for money are completely different things?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I needed to get out of my inbox and back to my own to-do list." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“All courses of action are risky, so prudence is not in avoiding danger (it’s impossible), but calculating risk and acting decisively. Make mistakes of ambition and not mistakes of sloth. Develop the strength to do bold things, not the strength to suffer.” –Niccolò Machiavelli" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Excitement is the more practical synonym for happiness," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Dude, are you turning into the bald fat man in the red BMW convertible?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“his favorite" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Adversity doesn't create character; it reveals it." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“For all of the most important things, the timing always sucks. Waiting for a good time to quit your job? The stars will never align and the traffic lights of life will never all be green at the same time. The universe doesn’t conspire against you, but it doesn’t go out of its way to line up all the pins either. Conditions are never perfect. “Someday” is a disease that will take your dreams to the grave with you. Pro and con lists are just as bad. If it’s important to you and you want to do it “eventually,” just do it and correct course along the way." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“This moment in history demands that we put purpose before profit, that we take more seriously the fact that we have the tools, the imagination, and the resources to solve our toughest problems. So it is time to get on with it." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Thrive: The Third Metric to Redefining Success and Creating a Life of Well-Being, Wisdom, and Wonder, and The Sleep Revolution: Transforming Your Life, One Night at a Time." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you learn the auxiliary verbs in your target language, plus the all-important to be, to have, to do, and to go, you can very quickly express any idea.18 Just see the following chart." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Telling myself the victim story allows me to vent briefly. Once I’m over it, then I realize that if this meeting was so important to me, I should have made it clear to my girlfriend that I couldn’t be late, and let her know that if she was running late, I’d have to leave without her." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“My definition of ‘love’ is being willing to die for someone who you yourself want to kill. That, in my experience, is kind of the deal." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Against Malaria Foundation (AMF) Deworm the World Initiative Give Directly" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Él defiende los suplementos de magnesio. Nuestra capacidad para almacenar magnesio con unos riñones sanos es muy elevada. Él toma de 600 a 800 mg al día, alternando entre sulfato de magnesio y óxido de magnesio. También toma carbonato de calcio dos veces por semana. Dos de sus marcas favoritas son Jarrow Formulas y NOW Foods." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“There are no statues erected to critics." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The New Rich (NR) are those who abandon the deferred-life plan and create luxury lifestyles in the present using the currency of the New Rich: time and mobility." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“transformar" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Of the many, many excuses people use to rationalize why they can’t do something, the excuse “I am too busy” is not only the most inauthentic, it is also the laziest. I" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Life is a full-contact sport, especially on the Internet. If you’re going to step into the arena, bloody noses and a lot of scrapes are par for the course." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Buddhists believe that we are the cause of our own suffering. We can’t control the fact that bad things are going to happen, but it’s how we react to them that really matters, and that we can learn to control." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Investing in yourself is the most important investment you’ll ever make in your life." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“like, up to" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“We want to attach ourselves to narratives. We don’t act because of equations. We follow our beliefs. We get behind leaders who stir our feelings." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Memories, Dreams, Reflections by Carl Jung." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“For all four years of school, I had a policy. If I received anything less than an A on the first paper or non-multiple-choice test in a given class, I would bring 2–3 hours of questions to the grader’s office hours and not leave until the other had answered them all or stopped out of exhaustion. This served two important purposes: 1. I learned exactly how the grader evaluated work, including his or her prejudices and pet peeves. 2. The grader would think long and hard about ever giving me less than an A. He or she would never consider giving me a bad grade without exceptional reasons for doing so, as he or she knew I’d come a’knocking for another three-hour visit." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The worst that could happen wasn’t crashing and burning, it was accepting terminal boredom as a tolerable status quo. Remember—boredom is the enemy, not some abstract “failure." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I can’t offer a single answer that will fit all people, but, based on the dozens of fulfilled NR I’ve interviewed, there are two components that are fundamental: continual learning and service." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“No one is perfect, and we’re all works in progress." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Vinagre de manzana con miel: Mi pócima tranquilizante de referencia es sencilla: dos cucharadas soperas de vinagre de manzana (yo uso la marca Bragg) y una cucharada de miel, disueltos en una taza de agua caliente. Esto me lo enseñó el gran Seth Roberts." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What are some of the choices you’ve made that made you who you are?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“When you have the best and tastiest ingredients, you can cook very simply and the food will be extraordinary because it tastes like what it is.” And: “Good cooking is no mystery. You don’t need years of culinary training, or rare and costly foodstuffs, or an encyclopedic knowledge of world cuisines. You need only your own five senses." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Everyone thinks of changing the world, but no one thinks of changing himself.” –Leo Tolstoy" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“As I have heard said, a person’s success in life can usually be measured by the number of uncomfortable conversations he or she is willing to have. Resolve to do one thing every day that you fear." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“you don’t need to understand any of the biology, just as you don’t need to understand radiation to use a microwave oven." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“WTF?: What’s the Future and Why It’s Up to Us." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I’ve got some athletes who do best on 70% carbs, 20% protein, 10% fat. But they deserve their carbohydrates. They’ve got a great pancreas, they’re in- sulin-sensitive, blah, blah, blah, they’ve got a lot of muscle mass. But some athletes, they’re allowed 10 licks of a dried prune every 6 months. That’s all they deserve and that’s all they’ll get. And after 6 months, they’re actually al- lowed to look at calendar pictures of cakes once a week." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Boner or No Boner? “Men, if you wake up and you don’t have a boner, there’s a problem. Yes or no? One or zero? Boner, no boner?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“You are 99 years old, you are on your deathbed, and you have a chance to come back to right now: what would you do?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«Pienso en los problemas como minas de oro. Los problemas más grandes del mundo son las mayores oportunidades de negocio del mundo»." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Extreme Ownership: How U.S. Navy SEALs Lead and Win. He has since authored a best-selling children’s book, Way of the Warrior Kid, and his latest, Discipline Equals Freedom: Field Manual, which details his unique mental and physical “operating system." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Dreamlining is so named because it applies timelines to what most would consider dreams. It is much like goal-setting but differs in several fundamental respects: 1. The goals shift from ambiguous wants to defined steps. 2. The goals have to be unrealistic to be effective. 3. It focuses on activities that will fill the vacuum created when work is removed. Living like a millionaire requires doing interesting things and not just owning enviable things." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“How is it different and why should I buy it? ONE sentence or phrase, folks. Apple did an excellent job of this with the iPod. Instead of using the usual industry jargon with GB, bandwidth, and so forth, they simply said, “1,000 songs in your pocket." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Check e-mail twice per day, once at 12:00 noon or just prior to lunch, and again at 4:00 P.M. 12:00 P.M. and 4:00 P.M. are times that ensure you will have the most responses from previously sent e-mail. Never check e-mail first thing in the morning.12 Instead, complete your most important task before 11:00 A.M. to avoid using lunch or reading e-mail as a postponement excuse" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“WHAT INTERESTING THING ARE YOU WORKING ON? WHY IS THAT INTERESTING TO YOU? WHAT’S SURPRISING ABOUT THAT? IS ANYBODY ELSE THINKING ABOUT THIS?” These are common questions" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The important thing is to learn from each failure and try not to repeat it." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“had people around me who’d say things like, ‘Oh, a flower, nice.’ A little part of me was thinking, ‘You absolute loser. You’ve taken time to appreciate a flower? Do you not have bigger plans? I mean, this the limit of your ambition?’ and when life’s knocked you around a bit and when you’ve seen a few things, and time has happened and you’ve got some years under your belt, you start to think more highly of modest things like flowers and a pretty sky, or just a morning where nothing’s wrong and everyone’s been pretty nice to everyone else. . . . Fortune can do anything with us. We are very fragile creatures. You only need to tap us or hit us in slightly the wrong place. . . . You only have to push us a little bit, and we crack very easily, whether that’s the pressure of disgrace or physical illness, financial pressure, etc. It doesn’t take very much. So, we do have to appreciate every day that goes by without a major disaster." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Everyone thinks of changing the world, but no one thinks of changing himself." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Why do you go away? So that you can come back. So that you can see the place you came from with new eyes and extra colors. And the people there see you differently, too. Coming back to where you started is not the same as never leaving.” –Terry Pratchett" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«Hay un proceso en el que una vez que despejas la mente, tienes que dejar que vuelva a llenarse. Lo llamarás de otra manera, pero yo sé que lo haces. Así que la dejas en blanco, y dejas que se inunde con cosas nuevas que no son las mismas que la llenaban antes." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“A man is rich in proportion to the number of things he can afford to let alone.” –Henry David Thoreau" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The Meaning of Culture by John Cowper Powys," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Think for yourself while being radically open-minded.” Ray Dalio" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«Cuando el 99 por ciento de la gente duda de ti, es porque o estás completamente equivocado, o estás a punto de hacer historia.»" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“But I will say this: the more clear I am about what my goals are, the more easily I can say no." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It's usually better to keep old resolutions than to make new ones." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“There is a way to get the rewards for a life of hard work without waiting until the end." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Make this trade a habit. Let the small bad things happen and make the big good things happen." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you find yourself in a fair fight, you didn’t plan your mission properly.” –Colonel David Hackworth Former United States Army colonel and prominent military journalist" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It’s lonely at the top. Ninety-nine percent of people in the world are convinced they are incapable of achieving great things, so they aim for the mediocre. The level of competition is thus fiercest for “realistic” goals, paradoxically making them the most time- and energy-consuming. It is easier to raise $1,000,000 than it is $100,000. It is easier to pick up the one perfect 10 in the bar than the five 8s." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Seeing as how nothing is outside the vast, wide-meshed net of heaven, who is there to say just how it is cast?” “I find good people good, and I find bad people good, if I am good enough." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Question Cal Suggests Asking People More Often “What are some of the choices you’ve made that made you who you are?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“and well-being, including certain ideas, treatments, and procedures that may be hazardous or illegal if undertaken without proper medical supervision. These opinions" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“estás a punto de hacer historia.»" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Live the questions so that, one day, you will live yourself into the answers." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Mistakes Were Made (But Not by Me), de Carol Tavris y Elliot Aronson." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It’s when I’m fuzzy about where I’m headed that I start to say yes to things willy-nilly." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“People don’t want to be millionaires—they want to experience what they believe only millions can buy." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The three of us are strong-willed individuals with distinct preferences, and the Eating Out Jar came out of a struggle. Each time we talked about going out to eat, we would spend so much energy bickering that we would be exhausted or discouraged by the time we finally chose. It was not fun. The same situation occurred with choosing an activity for the weekend. I sat my family at the table and gave them pens and Post-it notes where we wrote all the ideas we had. It was fun to see my family’s ideas. My husband and daughter realized that they both liked the same places and the same activities. Usually I was the one to introduce new ideas, which were met with resistance. Here was my chance to introduce things and activities I would like to experiment with and experience. Creating jars eliminated the necessity of using force, manipulation, or persuasion. Now we don’t waste time on making simple decisions, we just pull the jar out and randomly pick one, and we all love (or accept) the choice. The Happiness Jar we created for those times when we were going through down times as family. We came up with ideas that we all like and enjoy—simple things such as bathing our dog Bella or making potato-zucchini pancakes." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“you’ve crossed a psychological boundary by establishing yourself to the asker as someone who is interested in the type of request being made. Research shows we’re remarkably committed to maintaining a consistent sense of external identity, even if we only established it to begin with out of politeness." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The Way of Life According to Lao Tzu, the Tao Te Ching as translated by Witter Bynner." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Although there is disagreement on the exact number of taste qualities, everyone acknowledges that the number is small. The usual list includes sweet, sour, bitter, salty, and umami (Physiology and Behavior, 1991). So," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«Lo recuerdo muy bien diciéndome que no me preocupara por lo que fuera a ser en un futuro porque el trabajo que haría aún no se había inventado…" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Higher pricing means that we can sell fewer units—and thus manage fewer customers—and fulfill our dreamlines. It’s faster. Higher pricing attracts lower-maintenance customers (better credit, fewer complaints/questions, fewer returns, etc.). It’s less headache. This is HUGE. Higher pricing also creates higher profit margins. It’s safer." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Rule #5: Whenever possible, measure your progress in body fat percentage, NOT total pounds. The scale can deceive and derail you. For instance, it’s common to gain muscle while simultaneously losing fat on the SCD. That’s exactly what you want, but the scale number won’t move, and you will get frustrated. In place of the scale, I use DEXA scans, a BodyMetrix home ultrasound device, or calipers with a gym professional (I recommend the Jackson-Pollock 7-point method)." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The moment you start thinking someone else's gain is your loss, you limit yourself by thinking in terms of competition and shortages." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Greatness comes from humble beginnings; it comes from grunt work. It" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I do not believe in work-life balance. I believe that if you view your work as a calling, it is a labor of love rather than laborious. When your work is a calling, you are not approaching the amount of hours you are working with a sense of dread or counting the minutes until the weekend. Your calling can become a life-affirming engagement that can provide its own balance and spiritual nourishment." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The Barefoot Investor by Scott Pape." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Rissa Kerguelen by F. M. Busby." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Yes, I know we’re all very busy, but what, exactly, is getting done? Are all those people running late for meetings and yelling on their cell phones stopping the spread of malaria or developing feasible alternatives to fossil fuels or making anything beautiful?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Ignore the unfairness—there is no fair. Play the hand that you’re dealt to the best of your ability. People are highly consistent, so you will eventually get what you deserve and so will they. In the end, everyone gets the same judgment: death." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Los trabajos interesantes son los que creas tú." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Let go of what’s not working and really assess what is working and ‘what can I be excited about?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It Should Take No More Than 3 to 4 Weeks to Manufacture. This is critically important for keeping costs low and adapting to sales demand without stockpiling product in advance. I will not pursue any product that takes more than three to four weeks to manufacture, and I recommend aiming for one to two weeks from order placement to shippable product." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“know that the only reason you’re here on this planet is to follow your star and do what the Muse" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Tengo la firme convicción de que si tienes una idea muy clara de a dónde quieres ir, todo lo demás es mucho más fácil" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“$1,000,000 in the bank isn’t the fantasy. The fantasy is the lifestyle of complete freedom it supposedly allows. The question is then, How can one achieve the millionaire lifestyle of complete freedom without first having $1,000,000?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What gets measured gets managed.” –Peter Drucker" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“No te preocupes por cuál será tu trabajo… Haz cosas que te interesen y, si las haces bien de verdad, encontrarás la manera de templarlas con una buena oportunidad de negocio”»." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“los libros que recomienda para cultivar la capacidad de negociar es en realidad un libro infantil que se lee en diez minutos: Sopa de Piedras, de Marcia Brown." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The disease of our times is that we live on the surface." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It is vain to do with more what can be done with less.” –William of Ockham English philosopher and originator of Occam’s Razor" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“You should set up your life so that it is as comfortable and happy as possible—and so that it accommodates your creative work." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Over the ensuing days, however, I realized that everyone seemed to be discussing how to build large and successful companies, sell out, and live the good life. Fair enough. The question no one really seemed to be asking or answering was, Why do it all in the first place? What is the pot of gold that justifies spending the best years of your life hoping for happiness in the last?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Tetris as Therapy Have trouble getting to sleep? Try 10 minutes of Tetris. Recent research has demonstrated that Tetris—or Candy Crush Saga or Bejeweled—can help overwrite negative visualization, which has applications for addiction (such as overeating), preventing PTSD," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Commit, within financial reason, to action instead of theory. Learn to confront the challenges of the real world, rather than resort to the protective womb of academia." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Brain.fm app" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Having an unusually large goal is an adrenaline infusion that provides the endurance to overcome the inevitable trials and tribulations that go along with any goal. Realistic goals, goals restricted to the average ambition level, are uninspiring and will only fuel you through the first or second problem, at which point you throw in the towel. If the potential payoff is mediocre or average, so is your effort. I’ll run through walls to get a catamaran trip through the Greek islands, but I might not change my brand of cereal for a weekend trip through Columbus, Ohio. If I choose the latter because it is “realistic,” I won’t have the enthusiasm to jump even the smallest hurdle to accomplish it. With beautiful, crystal-clear Greek waters and delicious wine on the brain, I’m prepared to do battle for a dream that is worth dreaming. Even though their difficulty of achievement on a scale of 1–10 appears to be a 10 and a 2 respectively, Columbus is more likely to fall through." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Professor Kikunae Ikeda of Tokyo Imperial University isolated umami as glutamic acid while studying kombu, giant Japanese sea kelp. He commercialized this finding as monosodium glutamate (MSG), but you need not eat headache powder to taste the wonder (and healthfulness, when organic) of umami. Tomatoes, parmesan, and chicken broth all have high glutamate content. There are also mimics: shiitake mushrooms have umami-like nucleotides that allow them to impart a similar taste." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“libro infantil que se lee en diez minutos: Sopa de Piedras, de Marcia Brown." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“just like most nightmares, it’s not that big a deal and is reversible." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The reasonable man adapts himself to the world; the unreasonable one persists in trying to adapt the world to himself. Therefore all progress depends on the unreasonable man.” –George Bernard Shaw" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In negotiation, he who cares the least wins.” He" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Derek Parfit, quien lleva toda su vida en la institución All Souls College" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“He recomendado el artículo «1,000 True Fans» de Kevin Kelly literalmente a millones de personas." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“THE BEST PLAN IS THE ONE THAT LETS YOU CHANGE YOUR PLANS." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The vision is really about empowering workers, giving them all the information about what’s going on so they can do a lot more than they’ve done in the past. —BILL GATES, cofounder of Microsoft, richest man in the world" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Idleness is not just a vacation, an indulgence, or a vice: It is as indispensable to the brain as vitamin D is to the body, and deprived of it we suffer a mental affliction as disfiguring as rickets. The" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“People look for retreats for themselves, in the country, by the coast, or in the hills. There is nowhere that a person can find a more peaceful and trouble-free retreat than in his own mind. . . . So constantly give yourself this retreat, and renew yourself." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Aquí tienes un resumen muy simplificado: El «éxito» no tiene por qué ser complicado. Basta con empezar haciendo muy muy felices a mil personas." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Si os diera cien millones de dólares, ¿qué crearíais? Algo que no tuviera ningún sentido que otros copiaran”." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“workwithsource.com" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Walden" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“All you do is you pick a goal and you write it down 15 times a day in some specific sentence form, like ‘I, Scott Adams, will become an astronaut,’ for example. And you do that every day." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“lack of time is actually lack of priorities." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“We were trying to catch a flight to Puerto Rico, but the local Puerto Rican scheduled flight was canceled. The airport terminal was full of stranded passengers. I made a few calls to charter companies, and agreed to charter a plane for $2,000 to Puerto Rico. I divided the price by the number of seats, borrowed a blackboard, and wrote virgin airways: $39 single flight to puerto rico. I walked around the airport terminal and soon filled every seat on the charter plane. As we landed in Puerto Rico, a passenger turned to me and said: ‘Virgin Airways isn’t too bad—smarten up the service a little and you could be in business." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Por cada dólar de ingreso que generas, ¿puedes inducir un coste de cinco a diez dólares para los competidores? Si es así, invierte." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Hot baths can also significantly increase GH over baseline, and both sauna and hot baths have been shown to cause a massive release in prolactin, which plays a role in wound healing. I" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“an>" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“RumbleRoller: Think foam roller meets monster-truck tire. Foam rollers have historically done very little for me, but this torture device had an immediate positive impact on my recovery. (It also helps you sleep if used before bed.) Warning: Start slow. I tried to copy Amelia and did 20-plus minutes my first session. The next day, I felt like I’d been put in a sleeping bag and swung against a tree for a few hours." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Ego is about who’s right. Truth is about what’s right." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Derek escribió un libro titulado Razones y personas (A." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«Sé cuánto os repatea ver cómo me lo paso, pero ¿a que no adivináis dónde estoy?»." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Aspirar a conseguir mil compradores es mucho más viable que un millón de seguidores." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Pricing low is shortsighted, because someone else is always willing to sacrifice more profit margin and drive you both bankrupt." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Everyone is interesting. If you’re ever bored in a conversation, the problem’s with you, not the other person." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«Valve: Handbook for New Employees»," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Whenever you find yourself on the side of the majority, it’s time to pause and reflect.” —Mark Twain." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“determining which 20% of activities/tasks produce 80% of the results you want)," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What if [you] just can’t come up with 10 ideas? Here’s the magic trick: If you can’t come up with 10 ideas, come up with 20 ideas. . . . You are putting too much pressure on yourself. Perfectionism is the ENEMY of the idea muscle . . ." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“tablespoons, if you’d care to indulge). Will the body composition outcomes be the same? Of course not. Rule #2: The hormonal responses to carbohydrates (CHO), protein, and fat are different. There is no shortage of clinical studies to prove that beef calories7 do not equal bourbon calories. One such study, conducted by Kekwick and Pawan, compared three groups put on calorically equal (isocaloric) semistarvation diets of 90% fat, 90% protein, or 90% carbohydrate. Though ensuring compliance was a challenge, the outcomes were clearly not at all the same: 1,000 cals. at 90% fat = weight loss of 0.9 lbs. per day 1,000 cals. at 90% protein = weight loss of 0.6 lbs. per day 1,000 cals. at 90% carbohydrate = weight gain of 0.24 lbs. per day Different sources of calories = different results. Things that affect calorie allocation—and that can be modified for fat-loss and muscle gain—include digestion, the ratio of protein-to-carbohydrates-to-fat, and timing. We’ll address all three. Marilyn Monroe building her world-famous sex appeal. More than 50% of the examples in this book are of women. Marketers have conditioned women to believe that they need specific programs and diets “for women.” This is an example of capitalism at its worst: creating false need and confusion. Does this mean I’m going to recommend that a woman do exactly the same thing as a 250-pound meathead who wants 20-inch arms? Of course not. The two have different goals. But 99% of the time both genders want exactly the same thing: less fat and a bit more muscle in the right places. Guess what? In these" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“a tolerable and comfortable existence doing something unfulfilling." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Amazon, Netflix, etc., repararon en que, en total, las ventas de todos los productos minoritarios igualaban, y en algunos casos excedían, las ventas de los contados productos más vendidos." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“¿Me recomiendas algún otro sitio de la ciudad que pueda ser un buen sitio de trabajo para mí? Estoy totalmente decidido a dedicarme a esto. Realmente quiero saber cómo es”." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“When I was 55, I went to Poland and learned that my mother’s five brothers died because of prostate cancer, each when they were close to 55 years old. As I stood looking at the grave of one of them, I realized I was 55 myself. When I returned to the States, I immediately visited my doctor, who informed me that my prostate was large and had nodules. She tested my PSA, and after seeing the result of 9.5, she sent me to the urologist. He was very fast and forceful with his recommendation: biopsy and possible removal. “Wait, wait,” I said. “Let me think about it.” The doctor urged me to make a quick decision, but I wanted to do some research first. The whole next week, I studied the literature about my condition and decided to change my diet, incorporating many more vegetables, before taking drastic medical action. The result? After six months my PSA was down to 5, and after another six months it reached 1. Another half a year later it hit 0.1, and it has been like this every year since." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“There are two coaches who have had enormous impact on me in the last five years: Carolyn Coughlin at Cultivating Leadership and Jim Dethmer at Conscious Leadership." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“busyness serves as a kind of existential reassurance, a hedge against emptiness: Obviously your life cannot possibly be silly or trivial or meaningless if you are so busy, completely booked, in demand every hour of the day. All this noise and rush and stress seem contrived to drown out or cover up some fear at the center of our lives." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Measure the cost of inaction, realize the unlikelihood and repairability of most missteps, and develop the most important habit of those who excel and enjoy doing so: action." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«En una negociación gana quien tiene menos que perder»." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“conscious thinking is largely asking and answering questions in your own head. If you want confusion and heartache, ask vague questions. If you want uncommon clarity and results, ask uncommonly clear questions." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The student who elects to risk it all—which is nothing—to establish an online video rental service that delivers $5,000 per month in income from a small niche of Blu-ray aficionados, a two-hour-per-week side project that allows him to work full-time as an animal rights lobbyist." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“These world-class performers don’t have superpowers. The rules they’ve crafted for themselves allow the bending of reality to such an extent that it may seem that way, but they’ve learned how to do this, and so can you. These “rules” are often uncommon habits and bigger questions. In a surprising number of cases, the power is in the absurd. The more absurd, the more “impossible” the question, the more profound the answers. Take, for instance, a question that serial billionaire Peter Thiel likes to ask himself and others: “If you have a 10-year plan of how to get [somewhere], you should ask: Why can’t you do this in 6 months?” For purposes of illustration here, I might reword that to: “What might you do to accomplish your 10-year goals in the next 6 months, if you had a gun against your head?” Now, let’s pause. Do I expect you to take 10 seconds to ponder this and then magically accomplish 10 years’ worth of dreams in the next few months? No, I don’t. But I do expect that the question will productively break your mind, like a butterfly shattering a chrysalis to emerge with new capabilities. The “normal” systems you have in place, the social rules you’ve forced upon yourself, the standard frameworks—they don’t work when answering a question like this. You are forced to shed artificial constraints, like shedding a skin, to realize that you had the ability to renegotiate your reality all along. It just takes practice. My suggestion is that you spend real time with the questions you find most ridiculous in this book. Thirty minutes of stream-of-consciousness journaling (page 224) could change your life. On top of that, while the world is a gold mine, you need to go digging in other people’s heads to unearth riches. Questions are your pickaxes and competitive advantage. This book will give you an arsenal to choose from." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Money in a business is like gas in your car. You need to pay attention so you don’t end up on the side of the road. But your trip is not a tour of gas stations." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“lack of time is actually lack of priorities. Take" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Not all taste buds are located on the tongue. Some are found on the roof of the mouth and in the throat.… Taste receptors are also found in the lining of the intestine, suggesting that our concept of the sense of taste should include these chemical-sensing systems." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Named must your fear be before banish it you can.” —Yoda, from Star Wars: The Empire Strikes Back" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“CHANGE YOUR WORDS, CHANGE YOUR WORLD" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«Persigue lo que te apasiona» es un consejo" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“be consumed during meals by using a potassium- enriched salt like “Lite Salt” or, my preference, eating extra guacamole with Mexican meals. Avocadoes, the main ingredient in guacamole, contain 60% more potassium than bananas. Avocadoes also contain 75% insoluble fiber, which will help keep you regular. If you prefer pills, 99-milligram tablets with meals will do the trick. Magnesium and calcium are easiest to consume in pill form, and 500 milligrams of magnesium taken" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The second strategy is fairly easy. Everyone has at least a few areas in which they could be in the top 25% with some effort. In my case, I can draw better than most people, but I’m hardly an artist. And I’m not any funnier than the average standup comedian who never makes it big, but I’m funnier than most people. The magic is that few people can draw well and write jokes. It’s the combination of the two that makes what I do so rare." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Try it—write down a precise sequence of curse words that takes 7 to 10 seconds to read. Then, before a creative work session of some type, read it quickly and loudly like you’re casting a spell or about to go postal. Eric also finds late nights, around 3 a.m., to be ideal for deep creative work." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“La segunda ley (Prensa científica, 1992), «escrita por un profesor de Fisicoquímica de Oxford llamado P. W. Atkins." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Eso es lo primero que debes hacer: determinar qué te toca hacer en este planeta, por qué estás aquí, y qué te despierta por las mañanas»." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Conditions are never perfect. “Someday” is a disease that will take your dreams to the grave with you. Pro and con lists are just as bad. If it’s important to you and you want to do it “eventually,” just do it and correct course along the way." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The genuine love for reading itself, when cultivated, is a superpower." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The manifesto of the dealmaker is simple: Reality is negotiable. Outside of science and law, all rules can be bent or broken, and it doesn’t require being unethical." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Dr. B. J. Fogg, founder of the Persuasive Technology Lab at Stanford University, wrote his graduate dissertation with a far less aggressive commitment. Even if he came home from a party at 3:00 A.M., he had to write one sentence per day. He finished in record time while classmates languished for years, overwhelmed by the enormity of the task. Understanding this" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Alison Gopnik’s Scientist in the Crib" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Life will go faster than you know. It will be tempting to live a life that impresses others. But this is the wrong path. The right path is to know that life is short, every day is a gift, and you have certain gifts. Happiness is about understanding that the gift of life should be honored every day by offering your gifts to the world. Don’t let yourself define what matters by the dogma of other people’s thoughts. And even more important, don’t let the thoughts of self-doubt and chattering self-criticism in your own mind slow you down. You will likely be your own worst critic. Be kind to yourself in your own mind. Let your mind show you the same kindness that you aspire to show others." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Descubrir el propósito o la misión que te guía en la vida" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Look at it as a test drive of one to two weeks. If you want to walk an hour a day, don’t start with one hour. Choosing one hour is automatically building in the excuse of not having enough time. Commit to a fail-proof five minutes instead. This is exactly what Dr. Fogg suggested to his sister, and that one change (the smallest meaningful change that created momentum) led her to buy running shoes and stop eating dessert, neither of which he suggested. These subsequent decisions are referred to in the literature as “consonant decisions,” decisions we make to be aligned with a prior decision. Take the pressure off and do something" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Ultimately, your gift to the world is being who you are. It is both your gift and your fulfillment." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Success should not be measured by financial gain; true success is doing something you love for a living." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Be the silence that listens.” –Tara Brach" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I prefer to be true to myself, even at the hazard of incurring the ridicule of others, rather than to be false, and to incur my own abhorrence.” –Frederick Douglass" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«Creo que desnaturaliza la búsqueda de una formación laboral satisfactoria y de un trabajo satisfactorio," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What bullshit excuses do you have for not going after whatever it is that you want? Please," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Mastery doesn't come from an infographic. What you know doesn't mean shit. What do yo do consistently?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“These individuals have riches just as we say that we ‘have a fever,’ when really the fever has us.” –Seneca" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«El hombre razonable se adapta al mundo; el irrazonable persiste en intentar adaptar el mundo a él. Por consiguiente, todo progreso depende del hombre irrazonable.» GEORGE BERNARD SHAW, Máximas para revolucionarios" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The Passion Trap: How to Right an Unbalanced Relationship by relationship therapist and psychologist Dean C. Delis." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Fasting before chemotherapy is definitely something that should be implemented in our oncology wards," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Es autor de tres superventas entre los que figura The Power of Broke." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The Top Five Regrets of the Dying by Bronnie Ware" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Avoid compulsively making things worse." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“donde el mayor indicador de la satisfacción laboral es que el trabajo te interese mentalmente." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The factory of the future will have only two employees, a man and a dog. The man will be there to feed the dog. The dog will be there to keep the man from touching the equipment." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“National Geographic Field Guide to the Birds of North America (Jon L. Dunn and Jonathan Alderfer) Engle, Dan: Mating in Captivity:" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Many people feel that when they are overwhelmed or lose focus, they need to retreat into themselves and shut out the world. They think that there is greater merit and virtue in figuring things out alone. That doesn’t work for me. I find myself, and activate my greatest creative capacities, in relationship with the beautiful diversity of other human beings." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Map and Territory and How to Actually Change Your Mind by Eliezer Yudkowsky." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The Hero with a Thousand Faces by Joseph Campbell, The Lessons of History by Will and Ariel Durant, and River Out of Eden by Richard Dawkins." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I didn’t survive, I prepared.” Nelson Mandela’s answer when Tony asked him, “Sir, how did you survive all those years in prison?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“One of the books he recommends for cultivating dealmaking ability is actually a children’s book and a 10-minute read: Stone Soup. “It’s a children’s story that is the best MBA degree you can read." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In my practice, when I see clients for the first time, I see them as the end product—the way they will be in the future. They are all beautiful. What stands between who they are and who they want to be is their willingness to change strong habits, belief systems, and the gracefulness to embrace a new way of living. I aid them in their pursuit of change and liberation from unwanted habits." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Buffett le dijo: «Invertir en ti es la inversión más importante que puedes hacer en la vida… Nunca habrá una inversión financiera comparable, porque si desarrollas más destreza, más capacidad, eso será lo que realmente te dará la libertad económica…" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“don’t confuse being driven with being authentically animated by an inner calling. One state leaves you depleted and unfulfilled; the other fuels your soul and makes your heart sing." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“When you’re the first in a new category, promote the category. In essence, you have no competition. DEC told its prospects why they ought to buy a minicomputer, not a DEC minicomputer. In" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Tell to Win: Connect, Persuade, and Triumph with the Hidden Power of Story, which was an instant #1 New York Times bestseller." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“These two books are actually parts one and two of a six-part collection called Rationality: From AI to Zombies, sourced from Yudkowsky’s blog posts from the site LessWrong.com over the last decade." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“»La tercera cosa es que cuando intentas hacer algo diez veces más grande, en lugar de un 10 por ciento mayor, no suele resultarte cien veces más difícil, pero la recompensa sí es cien veces mayor.»" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Premack [a motivational system where a more-preferred activity can be used to reinforce a less-preferred activity] or a rewards system, but with" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I believe I’m below average. It’s a deliberate, cultivated belief to compensate for our tendency to think we’re above average." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Inside suffering is the seed of change." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“case—a tolerable and comfortable existence doing something unfulfilling. The last is most common and most insidious." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Hardcore History by" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The whole point of addiction is that people are compelled to it by suffering, trauma, unease, and emotional pain. If you want to help people, ask why they are in so much pain that they are driven (there’s that word again) to escape from it through ultimately self-harming habits or substances. Then support them in healing the trauma at the core of their addiction, a process that always starts with nonjudgmental curiosity and compassion." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Blinkist—an app that condenses nonfiction books into 15-minute reads." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Genghis Khan y el inicio del mundo moderno (Crítica, DL 2006)." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“When I’m old, how much would I be willing to pay to travel back in time and relive the moment that I’m experiencing right now?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“El «acondicionamiento hipertérmico» (o exposición controlada al calor) ayuda a aumentar la producción de la hormona del crecimiento y mejora considerablemente la resistencia." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“10 por ciento mayor, no suele resultarte cien veces más difícil, pero la recompensa sí es cien veces mayor.»" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Most of history was built by young people. They just got credit when they were older." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What would you do if there were no way you could fail? If you were 10 times smarter than the rest of the world? Create two timelines—6 months and 12 months—and list up to five things you dream of having (including, but not limited to, material wants: house, car, clothing, etc.), being (be a great cook, be fluent in Chinese, etc.), and doing (visiting Thailand, tracing your roots overseas, racing ostriches, etc.) in that order. If you have difficulty identifying what you want in some categories, as most will, consider what you hate or fear in each and write down the opposite. Do not limit yourself, and do not concern yourself with how these things will be accomplished. For now, it’s unimportant. This is an exercise in reversing repression. Be sure not to judge or fool yourself. If you really want a Ferrari, don’t put down solving world hunger out of guilt." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“a Barnes and Noble with no goal in particular, I chance upon a book about suicide. It’s right there in front of me on a display table. Perhaps this is the “miracle”? I sit down and read the entire book, taking copious notes into a journal, including other books listed in the bibliography." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The stars will never align" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Happiness is a choice you make and a skill you develop. The mind is just as malleable as the body. We spend so much time and effort trying to change the external world, other people, and our own bodies, all the while accepting ourselves the way we were programmed in our youths. We accept the voice that talks to us in our head all the time as the source of all truth. But all of it is malleable, every day is new, and memory and identity are burdens from the past that prevent us from living freely in the present." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What you seek is seeking you.” —RUMI" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It’s not how well you play the game, it’s deciding what game you want to play.”—Kwame Appiah." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Let life ripen and then fall. Will is not the way at all.”—Lao Tzu, from The Way of Life According to Lao Tzu" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you would not be forgotten as soon as you are dead and rotten, either write things worth reading, or do things worth writing." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Cuando tengas que optar entre dos cosas… elige ambas. 3.ª ley: Múltiples proyectos conducen a múltiples éxitos." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Si dejas que el aprendizaje te lleve a la acción, te haces rico»." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Tom Peters is still reinventing himself.” His most recent book is The Little BIG Things: 163 Ways to Pursue Excellence." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you dare, then you have already gotten further ahead than 99 percent of all the others.” Daniel Ek" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Cuando te obliguen a llegar a un acuerdo, pide más." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Lo que importa es si el trabajo te ofrece mucha diversidad," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Do not expect work to fill a void that non-work relationships and activities should." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Policosanol: 20–25 mg Alpha-lipoic acid: 100–300 mg (I take 300 mg with each meal, but some people experience acid reflux symptoms with more than 100 mg) Green tea flavanols (decaffeinated with at least 325 mg EGCG): 325 mg Garlic extract: 200 mg" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It’s lonely at the top. Ninety-nine percent of people in the world are convinced they are incapable of achieving great things, so they aim for mediocre. The level of competition is thus fiercest for “realistic” goals, paradoxically making them the most time-consuming. It’s easier to raise $1,000,000 than it is $100,000. It is easier to pick up the one perfect 10 in the bar than the five 8s." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The only true voyage would be not to travel through a hundred different lands with the same pair of eyes, but to see the same land through a hundred different pairs of eyes.” —MARCEL PROUST" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“There is just less competition for bigger goals. Doing big things begins with asking for them properly." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Quiet: The Power of Introverts in a World That Can’t Stop Talking, Frank Partnoy’s Wait: The Art and Science of Delay, Linda Kaplan-Thaler’s The Power of Nice: How to Conquer the Business World with Kindness and The Power of Small: Why Little Things Make All the Difference, and Cathy O’Neil’s Weapons of Math Destruction: How Big Data Increases Inequality and Threatens Democracy." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Black Box Thinking: The Surprising Truth About Success, by Matthew Syed." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Facebook News Feed Eradicator: ¿Necesitas centrarte? Líbrate de Facebook y de tu yo más" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Muneeb Ali" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“no puedes cambiar las reglas, ignóralas." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Success” need not be complicated. Just start with making 1,000 people extremely, extremely happy." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“There needs to be one decisive reason, and then the worthiness of the trip needs to be measured against that one reason. If I go, then we can backfill into the schedule all the other secondary activities. But if I go for a blended reason, I’ll almost surely come back and feel like it was a waste of time." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“si te reporta mucho, si te permite actuar con autonomía, si" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“the most important thing was that they have an answer. A) It shows the courage to be able to address it, and B) it shows self-awareness that ‘I might be top peer-rated and have this great career, but there’s somebody out there, and here’s what they’d probably say. . . .’ They’d say I was self-serving at one time, or I appear too good on paper, or I’m lazy on these types of physical training, or whatever the case may be. Show me that, if you identify it, you’re working on it. I don’t care what you think about it. I just want to know that you’re aware of how other people view you." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“El sufrimiento procede de tres patrones de pensamiento: pérdida, menos, nunca.»" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It is your job to train those around you to be effective and efficient. No one else will do it for you." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Poor Charlie’s Almanack, by Charles T. Munger." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Fasting essentially slows (sometimes stops) rapidly dividing cells and triggers an ‘energetic crisis’ that makes cancer cells selectively vulnerable to chemo and radiation.” There" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Cuanto más deprisa te mueves, más lento pasa el tiempo y más vives." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Richard lost a battle with cancer this year, but he experienced more in this life than most men could in ten, and he lived this quote until his last breath." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“That cliché you ignored like a throwaway fortune cookie? Suddenly it makes sense and moves mountains. Conversely, things you initially found enlightening might run their course, like a wonderful high school coach who needs to hand you off to a college coach for you to reach the next level." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“si aporta algo al resto del mundo (¿es realmente significativo? ¿mejora el mundo?)" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Out on the edge you see all kinds of things you can’t see from the center. Big, undreamed-of things—the people on the edge see them first.” —Kurt Vonnegut" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“book Psych by Dr. Judd Biasiotto." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“1. Which 20% of sources are causing 80% of my problems and unhappiness? 2. Which 20% of sources are resulting in 80% of my desired outcomes and happiness?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“FollowUp.cc: Para seguimientos y recordatorios automáticos del correo electrónico. Yo uso un primo hermano de este servicio llamado Nudgemail, en combinación con Boomerang. Nunca más tendrás que acordarte de perseguir a nadie." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Cuando algo es verdaderamente rompedor, el día previo era una idea descabellada." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The Conquest of Happiness" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“también, si te permite poner en práctica una capacidad que hayas desarrollado.»" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If I asked you to spend $1 billion improving the world, solving a problem, what would you pursue?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The billboard would say, “Great opportunities never have ‘great opportunity’ in the subject line." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Sooner or later, parents have to take responsibility for putting their kids into a system that is indebting them and teaching them to be cogs in an economy that doesn’t want cogs anymore. Parents get to decide . . . [and] from 3 p.m. to 10 p.m., those kids are getting homeschooled. And they’re either getting home-schooled and watching The Flintstones, or they’re getting homeschooled and learning something useful." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“John Dewey’s dictum that “a problem well put is half-solved" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I read about it in Buck Up, Suck Up . . . and Come Back When You Foul Up: 12 Winning Secrets from the War Room, written by James Carville and Paul Begala, the political strategists behind Bill Clinton’s presidential campaign “war room.” Here’s the excerpt that stuck with me: Newt Gingrich is one of the most successful political leaders of our time. Yes, we disagreed with virtually everything he did, but this is a book about strategy, not ideology. And we’ve got to give Newt his due. His strategic ability—his relentless focus on capturing the House of Representatives for the Republicans—led to one of the biggest political landslides in American history. Now that he’s in the private sector, Newt uses a brilliant illustration to explain the need to focus on the big things and let the little stuff slide: the analogy of the field mice and the antelope. A lion is fully capable of capturing, killing, and eating a field mouse. But it turns out that the energy required to do so exceeds the caloric content of the mouse itself. So a lion that spent its day hunting and eating field mice would slowly starve to death. A lion can’t live on field mice. A lion needs antelope. Antelope are big animals. They take more speed and strength to capture and kill, and once killed, they provide a feast for the lion and her pride. A lion can live a long and happy life on a diet of antelope. The distinction is important. Are you spending all your time and exhausting all your energy catching field mice? In the short term it might give you a nice, rewarding feeling. But in the long run you’re going to die. So ask yourself at the end of the day, “Did I spend today chasing mice or hunting antelope?” Another way I often approach this is to look at my to-do list and ask: “Which one of these, if done, would render all the rest either easier or completely irrelevant?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Always ask: What am I missing? And listen to the answer." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“triunfas porque localizas tus capacidades únicas y te concentras en desarrollar rutinas en torno a ellas." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“no puedes medirlo, no puedes mejorarlo." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“the best opportunities may not even catch your attention at first. More often than not, great opportunities look unattractive on the surface. What makes an opportunity great is upside. If the potential upside were explicitly clear, the opportunity would have already been taken." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Life will go faster than you know. It will be tempting to live a life that impresses others." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you want to go fast, go alone, but if you want to go far, you must go together." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Life is not waiting for the storm to pass, it’s learning how to dance in the rain" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I’m not the strongest. I’m not the fastest. But I’m really good at suffering." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Mindfulness: guía práctica para encontrar la paz en un mundo frenético (Paidós, 2013), de Mark Williams" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Were my goals my own, or simply what I thought I should want? How much of life had I missed from underplanning or overplanning?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“you should have a running list of three people that you’re always watching: someone senior to you that you want to emulate, a peer who you think is better at the job than you are and who you respect, and someone subordinate who’s doing the job you did—one, two, or three years ago—better than you did it. If you just have those three individuals that you’re constantly measuring yourself off of, and you’re constantly learning from them, you’re going to be exponentially better than you are." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Be focused on work or focused on something else, never in-between." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Make the time to do the things you want to do and then do them." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“You must seize opportunities when they present themselves, not when they are convenient or obvious. The only way to cultivate your own luck is to be more flexible (you’ll need to give up something for the right opportunity), humble (timing is out of your control), and gracious (when you see it, seize it!). Life’s greatest opportunities run on their own schedule, not yours." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“When you are just starting out, we can be sure of a few fundamental realities: 1) You’re not nearly as good or as important as you think you are; 2) you have an attitude that needs to be readjusted; 3) most of what you think you know or most of what you learned in books or in school is out of date or wrong." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Look for a partner you’ll try to impress daily, and one who will try to impress you.” Over the last couple decades, I’ve noticed that the best, most enduring partnerships in business (and in life) are among people who are constantly growing together. If the person you choose to depend on is constantly striving to learn and improve, you too will push yourself to new levels of achievement, and neither of you will feel like you have settled for someone you eventually outgrow." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I now often ask myself, “Is this really a problem I need to think my way out of? Or is it possible I just need to fix my biochemistry?” I’ve wasted a lot of time journaling on “problems” when I just needed to eat breakfast sooner, do 10 push-ups, or get an extra hour of sleep. Sometimes, you think you have to figure out your life’s purpose, but you really just need some macadamia nuts and a cold fucking shower." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Fat-loss can produce transient elevated triglycerides (as it did with my dad, who lost 70+ pounds of fat), and I had lost substantial bodyfat in the preceding 21 days." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“A lot of professions assume that you’re going to take eight to ten years just to achieve the minimum level of competence necessary to start to practice. That’s been a good grounding force when doing projects, because a lot of things go wrong here and there, but if you just assume that anything worthwhile is going to take five to ten years, they don’t feel as severe." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Para inscribirte en Instacart, por ejemplo, podrías usar bob+insta@bobsmith.com. Yo uso esta herramienta o me resulta de utilidad a diario." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Innovation is saying no to 1,000 things.” –Steve Jobs" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“A hypocrite is a person who—but who isn’t? —DON MARQUIS I" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“How to thrive in an unknowable future? Choose the plan with the most options. The best plan is the one that lets you change your plans." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Tony hace de nueve a diez minutos de lo que algunos considerarían meditación. Para" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Never let a good crisis go to waste. It’s the universe challenging you to learn something new and rise to the next level of your potential.” Kristen Ulmer" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“a Man Thinketh (James Allen), Man’s Search for Meaning" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Last but not least, much of what I recommend will seem impossible and even offensive to basic common sense—I expect that. Resolve now to test the concepts as an exercise in lateral thinking. If you try it, you’ll see just how deep the rabbit hole goes, and you won’t ever go back." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Él parte esos nueve o diez minutos en tres segmentos. Éste es un resumen abreviado:" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The lesson: Rather than striving to be superhuman, I would aspire to be less “super” and more “human." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Don’t believe everything you think.” –BJ Miller, MD" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Productivity is for robots. What humans are going to be really good at is asking questions, being creative, and experiences." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Kristen is the author of The Art of Fear: Why Conquering Fear Won’t Work and What to Do Instead." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“But not until I started PayPal did I fully realize that you don’t have to wait to start something. So if you’re planning to do something with your life, if you have a 10-year plan of how to get there, you should ask: Why can’t you do this in 6 months?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“cutre," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Real work and real satisfaction come from the opposite of what the web provides. They come from going deep into something—the book you’re writing, the album, the movie—and staying there for a long, long time." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Swaraj, a term usually associated with Mahatma Gandhi, can be translated as “self-rule.” Think of it as charting your own path." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Is it really necessary to work like a slave to live like a millionaire?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“No es necesario que sacrifiques la integridad de tu arte para tener unos ingresos respetables. Basta con que crees una gran experiencia y cobres por ella." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“El libro ¿Está usted de broma, señor Feynman? (Alianza Editorial, 2016), de Richard P." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Leonard Cohen, even though when I met him I was too tongue-tied to say anything. Anyway, I’ve given away a number of copies of his Book of Longing, since it articulates a sense of the compassionate" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The Power of Persuasion, de Robert Levine." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“porque cuando te sientes agradecido, todos sabemos que no hay ira." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you’re looking for an abdominal exercise well-suited to power development without bulk, look no further than the Janda sit-up." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The disease of our times is that we live on the surface. We’re like the Platte River, a mile wide and an inch deep. I always say, “If you want to become a billionaire, invent something that will allow people to indulge their own Resistance.” Somebody did invent it. It’s called the Internet. Social media. That wonderland where we can flit from one superficial, jerkoff distraction to another, always remaining on the surface, never going deeper than an inch." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I’m not going to lie: It sucks. It hurts like pulling out a splinter. But you are the average of the five people you associate with most, so do not underestimate the effects of your pessimistic, unambitious, or disorganized friends. If someone isn’t making you stronger, they’re making you weaker. Remove the splinters and you’ll thank yourself for it." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“But then I got into Joseph Campbell—The Power of Myth and The Hero with a Thousand Faces. Joseph Campbell was the first person to really open my eyes to [the] compassionate side of life, or of thought. . . . Campbell was the guy who really kind of put it all together for me, and not in a way I could put my finger on. . . . It made you just glad to be alive, [realizing] how vast this world is, and how similar and how different we are.” * Most-gifted or recommended books? “You’re going to think I’m plugging you, but I probably have recommended The Art of Learning [by Josh Waitzkin, page 577] and The 4-Hour Body, I’m not kidding, more than any other books.” What Would You Say in a College Commencement Speech? “Well, I would say that if you are searching for status, and if you are doing things because there’s an audience for it, you’re probably barking up the wrong tree. “I would say, ‘Listen to yourself.’ Follow your bliss, and Joseph Campbell, to bring it back around, said, ‘There is great security in insecurity.’ We are wired and programmed to do what’s safe and what’s sensible. I don’t think that’s the way to go. I think you do things because they are just things you have to do, or because it’s a calling, or because you’re idealistic enough to think that you can make a difference in the world. “I think you should try to slay dragons. I don’t care how big the opponent is. We read about and admire the people who did things that were basically considered to be impossible. That’s what makes the world a better place to live." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The easiest way to learn the swing is based on a method developed by Zar Horton: Stand with the kettlebell directly between the middle of your feet. Bend down and do deadlifts (head up," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The disease of our times is that we live on the surface. We’re like the Platte River, a mile wide and an inch deep. I always say, “If you want to become a billionaire, invent something that will allow people to indulge their own Resistance.” Somebody did invent it. It’s called the Internet. Social media. That wonderland where we can flit from one superficial, jerkoff distraction to another, always remaining on the surface, never going deeper than an inch. Real work and real satisfaction come from the opposite of what the web provides. They come from going deep into something—the book you’re writing, the album, the movie—and staying there for a long, long time." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Regret is past-tense decision making." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Dealing with the temporary frustration of not making progress is an integral part of the path towards excellence. In fact, it is essential and something that every single elite athlete has had to learn to deal with. If the pursuit of excellence was easy, everyone would do it. In fact, this impatience in dealing with frustration is the primary reason that most people fail to achieve their goals. Unreasonable expectations timewise, resulting in unnecessary frustration, due to a perceived feeling of failure. Achieving the extraordinary is not a linear process. The secret is to show up, do the work, and go home." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you push the fear away, the only version of fear available to you will be its crazy, irrational, or contorted version. If you’re willing to feel it, and merge with it, its energy and wisdom will appear." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Bliss is the highest peak of what brings you joy." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you could have a gigantic billboard anywhere with anything on it, what would it say and why? A single bottom line of profit motive no longer serves our interdependent world. We must move from a focus on shareholders to one on stakeholders, take a long-term view, and measure what matters, not just what we can count. That’s a lot easier to say than to do. So we created a manifesto at Acumen, a moral compass to guide our decisions and actions. It is an aspirational document, one I think about daily, though I don’t always live up to it. It is long for a billboard, but maybe if we put it in the right place and encouraged people to pause for just a moment, which in itself wouldn’t be so bad. Here it is: It starts by standing with the poor, listening to voices unheard, and recognizing potential where others see despair. It demands investing as a means, not an end, daring to go where markets have failed and aid has fallen short. It makes capital work for us, not control us. It thrives on moral imagination: the humility to see the world as it is, and the audacity to imagine the world as it could be. It’s having the ambition to learn at the edge, the wisdom to admit failure, and the courage to start again. It requires patience and kindness, resilience and grit: a hard-edged hope. It’s leadership that rejects complacency, breaks through bureaucracy, and challenges corruption. Doing what’s right, not what’s easy. It’s the radical idea of creating hope in a cynical world. Changing the way the world tackles poverty and building a world based on dignity. Or else, I might borrow Rilke’s gorgeous mantra to “Live the Questions,” which is a simple reminder to have the moral courage to live in the gray, sit with uncertainty but not in a passive way. Live the questions so that, one day, you will live yourself into the answers. . . . What advice would you give to a smart, driven college student about to enter the “real world”? Don’t worry all that much about your first job. Just start, and let the work teach you. With every step, you will discover more about who you want to be and what you want to do. If you wait for the perfect and keep all of your options open, you might end up with nothing but options. So start." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“To have an uncommon lifestyle, you need to develop the uncommon habit of making decisions, both for yourself and for others." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Los tres minutos siguientes: «Concentración total en la percepción de la presencia de Dios, por decirlo de alguna manera, o como quieras llamarlo tú." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Don’t worry about making money. Don’t stress about having a plan. Don’t think about networking or setting yourself up for the next thing. Try as hard as you possibly can to find something you love, because the depressing reality is that most people never find a career that they’re truly passionate about." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The first rule of any technology used in a business is that automation applied to an efficient operation will magnify the efficiency. The second is that automation applied to an inefficient operation will magnify the inefficiency." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you only engage with people about problems, pretty soon, you’ll become the problem for them,” and I agree with that." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“We agreed I was going to make judgment calls on a range of issues on his behalf without checking with him. He told me, ‘In order to move fast, I expect you’ll make some foot faults. I’m okay with an error rate of 10 to 20%—times when I would have made a different decision in a given situation—if it means you can move fast.’ I felt empowered to make decisions with this ratio in mind, and it was incredibly liberating.” TF: “Foot faults” is a metaphor here. “Foot fault” literally refers to a penalty in tennis when you serve with improper foot placement, often due to rushing." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It was called Nine Gates Mystery School." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“therapy for a condition called codependence, which is a neural wiring issue that tricks me into being unable to tolerate the discomfort, or perceived discomfort, of others." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Always be a student and always be a teacher." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Maria Popova" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Remembering that you are going to die is the best way I know to avoid the trap of thinking you have something to lose. —STEVE JOBS," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“¿Cuál es el peor consejo que ves u oyes dar en tu negocio o en tu especialidad?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“No aceptes las normas de tu tiempo" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“A goal without real consequences is wishful thinking. Good follow-through doesn’t depend on the right intentions. It depends on the right incentives." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What we usually consider as impossible are simply engineering problems . . . there’s no law of physics preventing them.” –Michio Kaku Physicist and co-founder of string field theory" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“People say that what we’re all seeking is a meaning for life. I don’t think that’s what we’re really seeking. I think that what we’re seeking is an experience of being alive.”–Joseph Campbell American mythologist and writer, known for The Hero with a Thousand Faces" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Don’t overestimate the world and underestimate yourself. You are better than you think." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Fueron los puritanos los que pervirtieron el trabajo y lo transformaron en virtud, olvidando claramente que Dios lo inventó como castigo" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Excuse me. I know this is going to sound strange, but if I don’t ask you now, I’ll be kicking myself for the rest of the day. I’m running to meet a friend [i.e., I have friends and am not a stalker], but I think you’re really [extremely, drop-dead] cute [gorgeous, hot]. Could I have your phone number? I’m not a psycho—I promise. You can give me a fake one if you’re not interested." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you want to help people, ask why they are in so much pain that they are driven (there’s that word again) to escape from it through ultimately self-harming habits or substances." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It’s so hard to forget pain, but it’s even harder to remember sweetness. We have no scar to show for happiness. We learn so little from peace.” –Chuck Palahniuk Famed" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«Que debes dar prioridad a aumentar tus seguidores en las redes sociales (Instagram, FB, Twitter, Snapchat, YouTube)." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If I believed this, how would it affect my decisions in the next week? Over the next 6 to 12 months?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If it’s important to you and you want to do it “eventually,” just do it and correct course along the way." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“On Fixing Physical Weaknesses LAIRD: “All you flexible people should go bang some iron, and all you big weight lifters should go do some yoga. . . . We always gravitate toward our strengths because we want to be in our glory." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Life’s Little Instruction Book" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“No idea is so big that you can’t take the first step. If the first step seems too hard, make it simpler. And don’t worry again if the idea is bad. This is all practice." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Los últimos tres minutos: «Me concentro en tres cosas que haré que sucedan, mis “tres para crecer”… Hay que verlo como si ya estuviera hecho, sentir las emociones, etc." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“¿has oído alguna vez la expresión “activación reticular”?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I was also afraid of “losing my edge,” as if meditation would make me less aggressive or driven. That was unfounded; meditation simply helps you channel drive toward the few things that matter, rather than every moving target and imaginary opponent that pops up." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“book Culinary Artistry, Andrew Dornenburg and Karen Page provide" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Meetings are an addictive, highly self-indulgent activity that corporations and other organizations habitually engage in only because they cannot actually masturbate." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Do people you respect or care about leave hateful comments on the Internet?” (No.) “Do you really want to engage with people who have infinite time on their hands?” (No.)" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What gets measured gets managed." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“He had realized something while arcing in slow circles toward the earth—risks weren’t that scary once you took them. His" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“#11—What if I could only subtract to solve problems? From 2008 to 2009, I began to ask myself, “What if I could only subtract to solve problems?” when advising startups. Instead of answering, “What should we do?” I tried first to hone in on answering, “What should we simplify?” For instance, I always wanted to tighten the conversion fishing net (the percentage of visitors who sign up or buy) before driving a ton of traffic to one of my portfolio companies. One of the first dozen startups I worked with was named Gyminee. It was rebranded Daily Burn, and at the time, they didn’t have enough manpower to do a complete redesign of the site. Adding new elements would’ve been time-consuming, but removing them wasn’t. As a test, we eliminated roughly 70% of the “above the fold” clickable elements on their homepage, focusing on the single most valuable click. Conversions immediately improved 21.1%. That quick-and-dirty test informed later decisions for much more expensive development. The founders, Andy Smith and Stephen Blankenship, made a lot of great decisions, and the company was acquired by IAC in 2010. I’ve since applied this “What if I could only subtract . . . ?” to my life in many areas, and I sometimes rephrase it as “What should I put on my not-to-do list?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Why Exercise Is Important to Stan Aside from the self-image and performance aspects: “It also puts discipline in the day. I find that if the day is terrible, but I worked out, at the end of the day I’ll go, ‘Well, I had a good workout,’ almost no matter what happens. When" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The average man is a conformist, accepting miseries and disasters with the stoicism of a cow standing in the rain. —COLIN WILSON," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“libro Who [de Geoff Smart y Randy Street] es una versión condensada de Topgrading, y supe de él en Mint, cuyo fundador lo usaba.»" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Hard choices, easy life. Easy choices, hard life." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Si prestas un servicio, en este apartado aprenderás a transformar tus habilidades en una mercancía que se pueda enviar para escapar de las limitaciones que impone el modelo de ganancia por horas." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“How do I become less competitive in order that I can become more successful?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Poor Charlie’s Almanac: The Wit and Wisdom of Charles T. Munger (Charles T. Munger)," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Being financially rich and having the ability to live like a millionaire are fundamentally two very different things." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“La vida es demasiado corta para tenerla ocupada." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Cubrir los inconvenientes: «Cada una de estas [personas] está obsesionada con no perder dinero. Pero" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“You learn the secret of this business, which is there’s no secret. Be yourself." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Básicamente es la idea de que es fácil que oigas decir tu nombre en medio de una multitud." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The X1 Search program: instant, precision searching by independent criteria (not just Google-style search string goulash) to pinpoint my files and emails going back to the 1980s. As info explodes, and my memory doesn’t get better, it’s a godsend." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“you succeed because you find your unique strengths and focus on developing habits around them." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Sobre Richard Branson: «Lo primero que se plantea con cada negocio es: “¿Cuáles son los inconvenientes? ¿Y cómo me guardo de ellos?”." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It is no measure of health to be well adjusted to a profoundly sick society.” —J. Krishnamurti “In the end, winning is" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Rule #1: Avoid “white” carbohydrates (or anything that can be white). Rule #2: Eat the same few meals over and over again. Rule #3: Don’t drink calories. Rule #4: Don’t eat fruit. Rule #5: Take one day off per week and go nuts." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What am I continuing to do myself that I’m not good at?” Improve it, eliminate it, or delegate it." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The Gary Halbert Letter (también conocido como The Boron Letters) y Ogilvy on Advertising." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Before the development of tourism, travel was conceived to be like study, and its fruits were considered to be the adornment of the mind and the formation of the judgment. —PAUL FUSSELL, Abroad" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Primero, edito para mí (¿qué me gusta?). En segundo lugar edito para mis seguidores (¿qué sería lo más entretenido y útil para mis seguidores?)." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If I am not for myself, who will be for me? But if I am only for myself, what am I? And if not now, when?” –Rabbi Hillel" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Life shrinks or expands in proportion to one’s courage." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The Nuttery NT065 Classic Seed Feeder, Extra Large." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“meditation simply helps you channel drive toward the few things that matter, rather than every moving target and imaginary opponent that pops up." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“we often forget that industries are often transformed by neophytes. The boldest transformations, like Uber disrupting transportation or Airbnb disrupting hospitality, are led by outsiders." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What advice would you give to a smart, driven college student about to enter the “real world”? What advice should they ignore? If you’re really smart, you’ll drop the drivenness. It doesn’t matter what’s driving you; when you’re driven, you are like a leaf, driven by the wind. You have no real autonomy. You are bound to be blown off course, even if you reach what you believe is your goal. And don’t confuse being driven with being authentically animated by an inner calling. One state leaves you depleted and unfulfilled; the other fuels your soul and makes your heart sing. What are bad recommendations you hear in your profession or area of expertise? “Just say no” (to drugs, gambling, eating, sex, etc.) is the least helpful advice one can say to a human being caught up in any addiction. If they could say no, they would. The whole point of addiction is that people are compelled to it by suffering, trauma, unease, and emotional pain. If you want to help people, ask why they are in so much pain that they are driven (there’s that word again) to escape from it through ultimately self-harming habits or substances. Then support them in healing the trauma at the core of their addiction, a process that always starts with nonjudgmental curiosity and compassion." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Breathturn” by Hammock “Your Hand in Mine” by Explosions in the Sky “Devi Prayer” by Craig Pruess and Ananda “Horizon” by Tycho “Recurring” by Bonobo “Hanging On” by Active Child “Long Time Sun” by Snatam Kaur “Angels Prayer” by Ty Burhoe, James Hoskins, Cat McCarthy, Manorama, and Janaki Kagel “Twentytwofourteen” by The Album Leaf" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“en tercer lugar edito para mis enemigos (¿qué es lo que mis detractores intentarán desmontar, desacreditar o ridiculizar?)." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Innovation is saying no to 1,000 things." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Cuando terminas de sentir una emoción (alegría, enfado, tristeza o cualquier otra) notas que se ha acabado. Se fue." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The best defense is a good offense. —DAN GABLE, Olympic gold medalist in wrestling" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Gold is getting old. The New Rich (NR) are those who abandon the deferred-life plan and create luxury lifestyles in the present using the currency of the New Rich: time and mobility." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“a Harvard M.B.A. and can help you. You should spend more time fishing, and with the proceeds, buy a bigger boat. In no time, you could buy several boats with the increased haul. Eventually, you would have a fleet of fishing boats.” He continued, “Instead of selling your catch to a middleman, you would sell directly to the consumers, eventually opening your own cannery. You would control the product, processing, and distribution. You would need to leave this small coastal fishing village, of course, and move to Mexico City, then to Los Angeles, and eventually New York City, where you could run your expanding enterprise with proper management.” The Mexican fisherman asked, “But, señor, how long will all this take?” To which the American replied, “15–20 years. 25 tops.” “But what then, señor?” The American laughed and said, “That’s the best part. When the time is right, you would announce an IPO and sell your company stock to the public and become very rich. You would make millions.” “Millions, señor? Then what?” “Then you would retire and move to a small coastal fishing village, where you would sleep late, fish a little, play with your kids, take a siesta with your wife, and stroll to the village in the evenings where you could sip wine and play your guitar with your amigos …" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“La NutriBullet, una pequeña batidora de vaso extraíble que él regala con frecuencia. Bate, bebe y enjuaga." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Last, play with foodpairing.be, which is based on the Volatile Compounds in Food (VCF) database. The objective is to start thinking about how to mix and match foods based on similar characteristics." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What will matter to me in six months, a year, five years? What is essential, and what is optional, in my life priorities?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Clear the path for the people above you and you will eventually create a path for yourself." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The elites sneer at commerce as tawdry, but it’s what gives people what they want and need, and pays for everything else, including the luxury of art." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“First, you could define failing simply as having a losing outcome, like losing a hand. But one of the lessons poker teaches you is that this is an unproductive way to define failure because you can win a hand by making very poor decisions and lose a hand while making very good decisions." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“A Lonely Place Is an Unmotivated Place" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Riesgos y beneficios asimétricos:" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Annie regularly shares her observations on the science of smart decision-making (applied to much more than poker) on her blog, Annie’s Analysis," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The truth is that the pain of broken trust and betrayed friendship is simply the cost of caring and deeply connecting to others." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“36 Arguments for the Existence of God: A Work of Fiction by Rebecca Newberger Goldstein" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The man who grasps principles can successfully select his own methods. The man who tries methods, ignoring principles, is sure to have trouble. —RALPH WALDO EMERSON" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What you seek is seeking you." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“2. Check e-mail twice per day, once at 12:00 noon or just prior to lunch, and again at 4:00 P.M. 12:00 P.M. and 4:00 P.M. are times that ensure you will have the most responses from previously sent e-mail." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“First, let’s focus on those critical first steps. Define three steps for each dream that will get you closer to its actualization. Set actions—simple, well-defined actions—for now, tomorrow (complete before 11 A.M.) and the day after (again completed before 11 A.M.). Once you have three steps for each of the four goals, complete the three actions in the “now” column. Do it now. Each should be simple enough to do in five minutes or less. If not, rachet it down. If it’s the middle of the night and you can’t call someone, do something else now, such as send an e-mail, and set the call for first thing tomorrow. If the next stage is some form of research, get in touch with someone who knows the answer instead of spending too much time in books or online, which can turn into paralysis by analysis. The best first step, the one I recommend, is finding someone who’s done it and ask for advice on how to do the same. It’s not hard. Other options include setting a meeting or phone call with a trainer, mentor, or salesperson to build momentum. Can you schedule a private class or a commitment that you’ll feel bad about canceling? Use guilt to your advantage. Tomorrow becomes never. No matter how small the task, take the first step now!" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I used to resent obstacles along the path, thinking, “If only that hadn’t happened life would be so good.” Then I suddenly realized, life is the obstacles. There is no underlying path. Our role here is to get better at navigating those obstacles. I strive to find calm, measured responses and to see hindrances as a chance to problem-solve." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The Strategy of Conflict by Thomas C. Schelling The Science of Words by George A. Miller Retreat from Doomsday by John Mueller The Nurture Assumption by Judith Rich Harris The Evolution of Human Sexuality by Donald Symons Knowledge and Decisions by Thomas Sowell Clear and Simple as the Truth by Francis Noël-Thomas and Mark Turner" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“• Eat decent quantities of fat at each larger meal. Saturated fat is fine if meat is untreated with antibiotics and hormones. • Spend at least 30 minutes eating lunch and dinner. Breakfasts can be smaller and thus consumed more quickly. • Experiment with cinnamon and lemon juice just prior to or during meals. • Use the techniques in “Damage Control” for accidental and planned binges. Keep in mind that the techniques in that chapter will help you minimize damage for about 24 hours, not much more." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Poker has taught me to disconnect failure from outcomes. Just because I lose doesn’t mean I failed, and just because I won doesn’t mean I succeeded—not when you define success and failure around making good decisions that will win in the long run." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Making effective decisions—and learning effectively—requires massive elimination and the removal of options." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“No Country for Old Men" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“When you make a business, you’re making a little world where you control the laws. It doesn’t matter how things are done everywhere else. In your little world, you can make it like it should be." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“crear un vehículo automatizado de generación de dinero sin que nos lleve tiempo. Eso es todo." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Diversificación de riesgos: «Tienen" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I can’t give you a surefire formula for success, but I can give you a formula for failure: try to please everybody all the time. —HERBERT BAYARD SWOPE, American editor and journalist; first recipient of the Pulitzer Prize Everything popular is wrong. —OSCAR WILDE, The Importance of Being Earnest" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“My two cents: Excellence is the next five minutes or nothing at all. It’s the quality of your next five-minute conversation. It’s the quality of, yes, your next email. Forget the long term. Make the next five minutes rock!" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Annie’s latest book, Thinking in Bets: Making Smarter Decisions When You Don’t Have All the Facts, focuses on strategies for great decision-making." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Uncertainty and the prospect of failure can be very scary noises in the shadows. Most people will choose unhappiness over uncertainty." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Greetings, Friends [or Esteemed Colleagues], Due to high workload, I am currently checking and responding to e-mail twice daily at 12:00 P.M. ET [or your time zone] and 4:00 P.M. ET. If you require urgent assistance (please ensure it is urgent) that cannot wait until either 12:00 P.M. or 4:00 P.M., please contact me via phone at 555-555-5555. Thank you for understanding this move to more efficiency and effectiveness. It helps me accomplish more to serve you better. Sincerely, Tim Ferriss" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“This poster, which I still have on my wall 20 years later, contains all 1,945 of the jōyō kanji , the characters designated for basic literacy by the Japanese Ministry of Education. Most" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«Si los mejores del mundo se parten el culo para hacerse fuertes, ¿por qué no lo haces tú?»" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Because being wrong is just an opportunity to find more of the truth." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«La frustración es una cuestión de expectativas.»" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Give your good bacteria an upgrade and get your microbiome in shape. Faster fat-loss and better mental health are just two of the benefits." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Or Dick Fosbury, who went backwards over the high jump bar for the first time in the Olympics, winning gold —” ERIC: “1968, you got it.” TIM: “Ridiculed, then mimicked, and eventually made standard." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Koppelman (TW: @briankoppelman, briankoppelman.com) is a screenwriter, novelist, director, and producer. Prior to his hit show Billions, which he co-created and executive produced (and co-wrote" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“WHY EXERCISE IS IMPORTANT TO STAN Aside from the self-image and performance aspects: “It also puts discipline in the day. I find that if the day is terrible, but I worked out, at the end of the day I’ll go, ‘Well, I had a good workout,’ almost no matter what happens." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Science isn’t about being right preemptively or knowing the answer. Science is motivated by the human drive to struggle to discover." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Nestled in the tropics of the Coral Sea, New Caledonia was a French territory and where Julie and Marc had just sold the sailboat that took them 15,000 miles around the world. Of course, recouping their initial investment had been part of the plan. All said and done, their 15-month exploration of the globe, from the gondola-rich waterways of Venice to the tribal shores of Polynesia, had cost between $18,000 and $19,000. Less than rent and baguettes in Paris." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Qué decisiones de las que has tomado te han convertido en la persona que eres?»" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Early to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy, and wise." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What are the biggest tech trends that you see defining the future? “I don’t like talking in terms of tech ‘trends’ because I think, once you have a trend, you have many people doing it. And once you have many people doing something, you have lots of competition and little differentiation. You, generally, never want to be part of a popular trend. You do not want to be the fourth online pet food company in the late 1990s. You do not want to be the twelfth thin-panel solar company in the last decade. And you don’t want to be the nth company of any particular trend. So I think trends are often things to avoid. What I prefer over trends is a sense of mission. That you are working on a unique problem that people are not solving elsewhere." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“La perfección no se alcanza cuando no hay nada más que añadir, sino cuando ya no queda nada que quitar. Antoine de Saint-Exupéry" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Do not work harder when the solution is working smarter. I" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“To laugh often and much, to win the respect of intelligent people and the affection of children . . . to leave the world a bit better . . . to know even one life has breathed easier because you lived. This is to have succeeded.”—Ralph Waldo Emerson" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“There are many things of which a wise man might wish to be ignorant. —RALPH WALDO EMERSON (1803–1882)" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“As to methods there may be a million and then some, but principles are few. The man who grasps principles can successfully select his own methods. The man who tries methods, ignoring principles, is sure to have trouble.” –Ralph Waldo Emerson" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“#1—It doesn’t matter how many people don’t get it. What matters is how many people do." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The easiest way to avoid being overwhelmed is to create positive constraints: put up walls that dramatically restrict whatever it is that you’re trying to do." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“como el glicerofosfato de magnesio GabaMag [fabricado por Trilogy Nutritional Supplements].»" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What’s on the other side of fear?” His answer is always, “Nothing." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What are domino foods? Foods that could be acceptable if humans had strict portion control, but that are disallowed because practically none of us do. Common domino foods include: Chickpeas Peanut butter Salted cashews Alcohol Domino triggers aren’t limited to food. For some people, if they play 15 minutes of World of Warcraft, they’ll play 15 hours. It’s 0 or 15 hours." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Cómo ganar amigos e influir sobre las personas en la era digital (Elipse, 2016), de Dale Carnegie." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“suddenly, you’re going to have to lead it a different way, and what you’re really going to have to do is develop people. The advice I’d give to anyone young is it’s really about developing people who are going to do the work." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Top down (macro thinking) means I consider the big-picture issues before the small when making decisions, and these [big-picture] issues dominate my preferences. It does not mean I ignore the small issues, as they are necessary but not dominant." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I’m not sure how much the formal study of philosophy matters, but I think the fundamental philosophical question is one that’s important for all of us, and it’s always this question of ‘What do people agree merely by convention, and what is the truth?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Integrity is the only path where you will never get lost." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It is impossible to live without failing at something, unless you live so cautiously that you might as well not have lived at all—in which case you fail by default.”—J. K. Rowling" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Understanding Media by Marshall McLuhan." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“#2—10% of people will find a way to take anything personally. Expect it and treat it as math." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Most breakthroughs in performance (and appearance) enhancement start with animals and go through the following adoption curve: Racehorses → AIDS patients (because of muscle wasting) and bodybuilders → elite athletes → rich people → the rest of us The last jump from the rich to the general public can take 10–20 years, if it happens at all. It often doesn’t. I" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The moment that you feel that, just possibly, you’re walking down the street naked, exposing too much of your heart and your mind and what exists on the inside, showing too much of yourself. That’s the moment you may be starting to get it right.” —Neil Gaiman, University" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you are depressed, you are living in the past. If you are anxious, you are living in the future. If you are at peace, you are living in the present.” —Lao Tzu" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Empieza pequeño, pero piensa a lo grande" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I am, and will continue to be, a humble student of you all." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The Importance of Language on a Rainy Day “One of the biggest mistakes that I observed in the first year of Jack’s life was parents who have unproductive language around weather being good or bad. Whenever it was raining, you’d hear moms, babysitters, dads say, ‘It’s bad weather. We can’t go out,’ or if it wasn’t, ‘It’s good weather. We can go out.’ That means that, somehow, we’re externally reliant on conditions being perfect in order to be able to go out and have a good time. So, Jack and I never missed a single storm, rain or snow, to go outside and romp in it. Maybe we missed one when he was sick. We’ve developed this language around how beautiful it is. Now, whenever it’s a rainy day, Jack says, ‘Look, Dada, it’s such a beautiful rainy day,’ and we go out and we play in it. I wanted him to have this internal locus of control—to not be reliant on external conditions being just so." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Maxims and Reflections by Goethe:" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I look at every failure as a learning experience and try to spend time with my failures. I stew on them for a while until I pick out some nugget from them that I can take forward." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What Does It Feel Like? “If you are depressed, you are living in the past. If you are anxious, you are living in the future. If you are at peace, you are living in the present.” —Lao Tzu" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“¿Cuáles son las verdaderas metas últimas de mi vida, y cómo puedo optimizar para alcanzarlas?”.»" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Meetings should only be held to make decisions about a predefined situation, not to define the problem." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“antes de dormir, yo tomo fosfatidilserina y N-acetil cisteína (o NAC" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It’s always the hard part that creates value.”   “You are more powerful than you think you are. Act accordingly." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What is the book (or books) you’ve given most as a gift, and why? Or what are one to three books that have greatly influenced your life? Man’s Search for Meaning by Viktor E. Frankl. He introduces the insights that he learned from surviving imprisonment in a Nazi concentration camp. He outlines methods to discover deep meaning and purpose in life. The Tao Te Ching by Lao Tzu. His 81 Zen teachings are the foundation for the religion of Taoism, aimed at understanding “the way of virtues.” Lao Tzu’s depth of teachings are complicated to decode and provide foundations for wisdom. Mind Gym by Gary Mack is a book that strips down the esoteric nature of applied sport psychology. Gary introduces a variety of mindset training principles and makes them extremely easy to understand and practice. What purchase of $ 100 or less has most positively impacted your life in the last six months (or in recent memory)? A book for my son: Inch and Miles, written by coach John Wooden. We read it together on a regular basis. The joy that I get from hearing him understand Coach Wooden’s insights is fantastically rewarding." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“They tried to bury us. They didn’t know we were seeds.” —Mexican proverb There are some secrets we don’t share because they’re embarrassing. Like that time I met Naval Ravikant (page 546) by accidentally hitting on his girlfriend at a coffee shop? Oops. Or the time a celebrity panelist borrowed my laptop to project a boring corporate video, and a flicker of porn popped up—à la Fight Club—in front of a crowd of 400 people? Another good example. But then there are dark secrets. The things we tell no one. The shadows we keep covered for fear of unraveling our lives. For me, 1999 was full of shadows. So much so that I never wanted to revisit them. I hadn’t talked about this traumatic period publicly until April 29, 2015, during a Reddit AMA (Ask Me Anything). What follows is the sequence of my downward spiral. In hindsight, it’s incredible how trivial some of it seems. At the time, though, it was the perfect storm. I include wording like “impossible situation,” which was reflective of my thinking at the time, not objective reality. I still vividly recall these events, but any quotes are paraphrased. So, starting where it began . . . It’s the beginning of my senior year at Princeton University. I’m slated to graduate around June of 1999. Somewhere in the next six months, several things happen in the span of a few weeks. First, I fail to make it to final interviews for McKinsey consulting and Trilogy software, in addition to others. I have no idea what I’m doing wrong, and I start losing confidence after “winning” in the game of academics for so long. Second, a long-term (for" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“La combinación del GST con AcroYoga (capítulo AcroYoga: «Thai and fly») ha remodelado mi cuerpo" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Anticipate, don’t react." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Occasionally, a good idea comes to you first, if you’re lucky. Usually, it only comes after a lot of bad ideas." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I’m old-fashioned. Where I come from, people like to succeed. . . . When I was a founder, when I first started out, we didn’t have the word ‘pivot.’ We didn’t have a fancy word for it. We just called it a fuck-up." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“En igualdad de condiciones, para incrementar tu felicidad, lo único que hay que hacer es desearle a cualquier otra persona elegida al azar que sea feliz." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Sometimes you need to allow life to save you from getting what you want.” Brandon Stanton" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“risks weren’t that scary once you took them." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Here are a few common time-consumers in small businesses with online presences. Submitting articles to drive traffic to site and build mailing lists Participating in or moderating discussion forums and message boards Managing affiliate programs Creating content for and publishing newsletters and blog postings Background research components of new marketing initiatives or analysis of current marketing results Don’t expect miracles from a single" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Christopher Carmichael, “You are 99 years old, you are on your deathbed, and you have a chance to come back to right now: what would you do?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“#3—When in doubt, starve it of oxygen." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“To read Thucydides is to see our own world in microcosm. It’s the study of how democracies destroy themselves by breaking down into warring factions, the Few versus the Many. Hoi polloi in Greek means “the many.” Oligoi means “the few." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Lo que hay que tener (Anagrama, 2010), de Tom Wolfe" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It’s not giving up to put your current path on indefinite pause." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Diversity in counsel, unity in command.” –Cyrus the Great Founder of the Achaemenid Empire, known as the “king of Persia" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Every day, I eat a bowl of veggie soup, drink veggie juice, and eat pâté made out of the post-juicing pulp mixed with garlic, lemon juice, kale, spinach, and avocado. I serve it on bananas and other fruits so it looks like sushi. But my favorite concoction, which I created three years ago, is a medley of cabbage, onion, avocado, and pear. It’s incredibly delicious, extremely healthy, and fast to prepare. This dish also gave me a deep insight about eating: there was no way to make food better than this. I felt pride and a surge of energy, realizing that I actually ate the best in the world." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The app Headspace is a fun way to start. Try and do it every day. But I suggest not doing it while you are walking . . . for now." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Oscar Wilde’s advice, “The only way to get rid of a temptation is to yield to it" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I have come to learn that part of the business strategy is to solve the simplest, easiest, and most valuable problem. And actually, in fact, part of doing strategy is to solve the easiest problem, so part of the reason why you work on software and bits is that atoms [physical products] are actually very difficult." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Peter Drucker and his book The Effective Executive, as well as Alain de Botton’s (page 486) How Proust Can Change Your Life." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The blog post I point people to the most is called ‘First, Ten,’ and it is a simple theory of marketing that says: tell ten people, show ten people, share it with ten people; ten people who already trust you and already like you. If they don’t tell anybody else, it’s not that good and you should start over. If they do tell other people, you’re on your way.” TO" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Sometimes, You Just Need a Vibrator Coach Sommer introduced me to a Russian medical massage specialist who recommended I use the plug-in (not cordless) model of the Hitachi Magic Wand on its high setting. I’ve never experienced such heights of ecstasy. Thanks, Vladmir! Just kidding. In this case, it’s for relaxing hypertonic muscles (i.e., muscles that are tense even though they shouldn’t be). Just place the wand on your muscle belly (not insertion points) for 20 to 30 seconds, which is often all it takes at the proper hertz. Tension headaches or a stiff neck? It’s great for relaxing the occipitals at the base of the skull. Warning: Having Hitachi Magic Wands lying out around your house can go terribly wrong—or terribly right. Good luck explaining your “hypertonic muscles.” As one friend said to me, “I think my wife has that same problem. . . .”   Gymnast Strong Unusual and Effective Bodyweight Exercises In less than eight weeks of following Coach Sommer’s protocols, I saw unbelievable improvement in areas I’d largely given up on. Try a few of my favorite exercises, and you’ll quickly realize that gymnasts use muscles you didn’t even know you had. QL Walk—An Unusual Warmup" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Pero démosle la vuelta para que no parezca tan degradante: No se trata de besarle el culo a nadie. No se trata de hacer quedar bien a otros. Se trata de dar el apoyo necesario para que los demás lo hagan bien. La mejor manera de expresar este consejo es: Busca el lienzo adecuado para que otros lo pinten. Actúa como anteambulo." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“A Pattern Language by Christopher Alexander." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Which of these highest-value activities is the easiest for me to do?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“#4—If you respond, don’t over-apologize." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“To do or not to do? To try or not to try? Most people will vote no, whether they consider themselves brave or not. Uncertainty and the prospect of failure can be very scary noises in the shadows. Most people will choose unhappiness over uncertainty" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“There are no radical creative choices that do not carry with them an inherent risk of equally radical failure. You cannot do anything great without aggressively courting your own limits and the limits of your ideas." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“TO CREATE SOMETHING GREAT (OR EVENTUALLY HUGE), START EXTREMELY SMALL “My suggestion is, whenever possible, ask yourself: What’s the smallest possible footprint I can get away with?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“My confidence came from my vision. . . . I am a big believer that if you have a very clear vision of where you want to go, then the rest of it is much easier." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Even if you consider yourself a terrible writer, writing can be viewed as a tool. There are huge benefits to writing, even if no one—yourself included—ever reads what you write. In other words, the process matters more than the product." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Despeja el camino para la gente que tienes por encima de ti y, con el tiempo, acabarás abriéndote camino para ti mismo." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The Alchemist by Paulo Coelho Snow Crash by Neal Stephenson The Sovereign Individual by James Dale Davidson and Lord William Rees-Mogg" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Looking somebody in the eye . . . is often the antidote for what is ailing us." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Most see excellence as some grand aspiration. Wrong. Dead wrong. My two cents: Excellence is the next five minutes or nothing at all. It’s the quality of your next five-minute conversation. It’s the quality of, yes, your next email. Forget the long term. Make the next five minutes rock!" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«La analogía que yo uso es, si sales a cenar fuera, te llevará un par de horas." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“There is nothing more powerful than failure to reveal to you what you are truly capable of." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What advice would you give to a smart, driven college student about to enter the “real world”? The seminal change in the business from then to now is that a young person should view the career pyramid differently rather than traditionally. Put the point at the bottom where you are now (at the start of your career) and conceive your future as an expanding opportunity horizon where you can move laterally across the spectrum in search of an ever-widening set of career opportunities. Reinvent yourself regularly. See your world as an ever-increasing set of realities and seize the day." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I can’t give you a surefire formula for success, but I can give you a formula for failure: try to please everybody all the time.” –Herbert Bayard Swope" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“En el fondo, el cerebro no es capaz de procesar todo en ese entorno, ni por asomo. Así que a lo máximo que llega es a aplicar esos pequeños filtros. Y" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“As to methods there may be a million and then some, but principles are few. The man who grasps principles can successfully select his own methods. The man who tries methods, ignoring principles, is sure to have trouble.” –Ralph Waldo Emerson American essayist, leader of the 19th-century transcendentalist movement" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Cuando empiezas en algo podemos estar seguros de varias realidades fundamentales: 1) No eres ni de cerca tan bueno ni tan importante como crees; 2) Tienes una actitud que debes reajustar; 3) La mayoría de lo que crees que sabes o la mayoría de lo que aprendiste en los libros o en las aulas está obsoleto o equivocado." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“A schedule defends from chaos and whim. It is a net for catching days.” –Annie Dillard" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The moment that you feel that, just possibly, you’re walking down the street naked, exposing too much of your heart and your mind and what exists on the inside, showing too much of yourself. That’s the moment you may be starting to get it right.” —Neil Gaiman, University of the Arts commencement speech" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Recuerda que los beneficios sólo te beneficiarán en la medida en que puedas disfrutar de ellos." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Being busy is a form of laziness—lazy thinking and indiscriminate action. Being busy is most often used as a guise for avoiding the few critically important but uncomfortable actions." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Dedicas cinco minutos a pensar a dónde irás a cenar." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Dejar de hacer algo por el mero hecho de que puedes hacerte daño es una razón nefasta para no actuar." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The first principle is that you must not fool yourself, and you are the easiest person to fool." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“After years of repetitive work, you will often need to dig hard to find your passions, redefine your dreams, and revive hobbies that you let atrophy to near extinction. The goal is not to simply eliminate the bad, which does nothing more than leave you with a vacuum, but to pursue and experience the best in the world." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The truth I have discovered after working with incredible athletes, leaders, and individuals from across the globe is that our humanity is expressed most fully in our treatment of others—when we are respectful, humble, caring, honest, and grateful despite our struggles, disappointments, and failures. It represents the heart and soul of who we are at our best." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«El genio es solamente la facultad superior de ver.» JOHN RUSKIN, afamado artista y crítico social" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Self-esteem is just the reputation that you have with yourself." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“A) You should taste the food as you go, which a surprisingly small number of people do; and B) salt and olive oil actually are cheating and they’re secret weapons and they always work.” Audiogon" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Diversity in counsel, unity in command.” –Cyrus the Great" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“únete a gente y a organizaciones que ya tengan éxito, funde tu identidad con la suya, y haz crecer ambas a la vez. Desde luego, tiene más encanto perseguir tu propia gloria," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The Female Brain by Louann Brizendine." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The Art of Asking: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Let People Help. I read it and upgraded my life in an afternoon of asking for help." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Parece razonable dedicar el 5 por ciento del tiempo a pensar cómo pasarás el 95 por ciento restante." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you spend 2 hours a day without an electronic device, looking your kid in the eye, talking to them and solving interesting problems, you will raise a different kid than someone who doesn’t do that. That’s one of the reasons why I cook dinner every night. Because what a wonderful, semi-distracted environment in which the kid can tell you the truth. For you to have low-stakes but superimportant conversations with someone who’s important to you.” ON" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Language is infinitely expansive (much like cooking) and therefore horribly overwhelming if unfiltered." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I’ve scheduled deloading phases in a few ways: roughly 8 a.m. to 9 a.m. daily for journaling, tea routines, etc.; 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. every Wednesday for creative output (i.e., writing, interviewing for the podcast); and “screen-free Saturdays,” when I use no laptops and only use my phone for maps and coordinating with friends via text (no apps). Of course, I still use “mini-retirements” à la The 4-Hour Workweek a few times a year." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Usually, what we most fear doing is what we most need to do." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Reduce el ego en un momento crítico de tu carrera, lo que te permitirá absorber todo lo que puedas sin los estorbos que bloquean la visión y el progreso de otros. Nadie está" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Más no es mejor, y dejar algo a medias suele ser 10 veces mejor que terminarlo. Acostúmbrate a no terminar lo que sea aburrido o improductivo si un jefe no te lo pide." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Why aim for a mere $100K when I can try to build a billion-dollar business?” Two reasons: 1) Aiming for the latter from the outset often leads to neglecting the high-touch 1,000 true fans who act as your most powerful unpaid marketing force for “crossing the chasm” into the mainstream. If you don’t build that initial army, you’re likely to fail. 2) Do you really want to build and manage a big company? For most people, it’s not a fun experience; it’s an all-consuming taskmaster. There are certainly ace CEOs who thread the needle and enjoy this roller coaster, but they are outliers. Read Small Giants by Bo Burlingham for some fantastic examples of companies that choose to be the best rather than the biggest." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Don’t overestimate the world and underestimate yourself. You are better than you think. And you are not alone." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«Uno es recalcar que realizarás ochenta mil horas de trabajo a lo largo de tu vida." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“No tiene ningún sentido que a las niñas se les diga que son más frágiles" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Friendship is born at the moment when one person says to another: ‘What? You too? I thought I was the only one.’”—C. S. Lewis" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«Hace poco me preguntaron si iba a despedir a un empleado que había cometido un error que le había costado a la empresa 600.000 dólares. No, respondí, acabo de gastarme 600.000 en formarle.» THOMAS J. WATSON, fundador de IBM" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Así que el filtro se fija automáticamente para tu nombre, porque eso es lo que más te importa." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Macro" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Don’t let someone knock you off course before you reach your destination. Trust the work. Always trust the work." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The key to a great life is simply having a bunch of great days. So you can think about it one day at a time.” Mr. Money Mustache" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“[One model that Whitney likes is the large weighted blanket from Weighted Blankets Plus LLC.]" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The basis for the energy drink Red Bull came from a tonic in Thailand, and the Smurfs were brought from Belgium. Pokémon came from the land of Honda. The band KISS made millions in record and concert sales, but the real profit has been in licensing—granting others the right to produce hundreds of products with their name and image in exchange for a percentage of sales." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The struggle ends when the gratitude begins.” [Quote attributed to Neale Donald Walsch]" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Over the last couple decades, I’ve noticed that the best, most enduring partnerships in business (and in life) are among people who are constantly growing together. If the person you choose to depend on is constantly striving to learn and improve, you too will push yourself to new levels of achievement, and neither of you will feel like you have settled for someone you eventually outgrow." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Vita Vibe MP12, que" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you want to walk an hour a day, don’t start with one hour. Choosing one hour is automatically building in the excuse of not having enough time. Commit to a fail-proof five minutes instead." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If I accept you as you are, I make you worse; however, if I treat you as though you are what you are capable of becoming I help you become that.”—" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The more absurd, the more “impossible” the question, the more profound the answers. Take, for instance, a question that serial billionaire Peter Thiel likes to ask himself and others: “If you have a 10-year plan of how to get [somewhere], you should ask: Why can’t you do this in 6 months?” For purposes of illustration here, I might reword that to: “What might you do to accomplish your 10-year goals in the next 6 months, if you had a gun against your head?” Now, let’s pause. Do I expect you to take 10 seconds to ponder this and then magically accomplish 10 years’ worth of dreams in the next few months? No, I don’t. But I do expect that the question will productively break your mind, like a butterfly shattering a chrysalis to emerge with new capabilities. The “normal” systems you have in place, the social rules you’ve forced upon yourself, the standard frameworks—they don’t work when answering a question like this. You are forced to shed artificial constraints, like shedding a skin, to realize that you had the ability to renegotiate your reality all along. It just takes practice." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Several families interviewed for this book recommended the oldest persuasive tool known to man: bribery. Each child is given some amounts of virtual cash, 25-30 cents, for each hour of good behaviour. The same amount is subtracted from their accounts for breaking the rules. All purchases for fun - whether souvenirs, ice cream, or otherwise - come out of their own individual accounts. No balance, no goodies. This often requires more self-control on the part of the parents than the children." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In the end, a lack of focus is usually just fear: fear that whatever project I’m attempting will go nowhere or fail miserably." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Es increíblemente importante plantearse cuál es la mejor manera de invertirlas," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Kettlebell: Simple & Sinister." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«Si algo te ofende, mira en tu interior… Es señal de que algo pasa ahí dentro.»" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“book Psych by Dr. Judd Biasiotto. He" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I’m very much in favor of learning. I’m much more skeptical of credentialing or the abstraction called ‘education." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Step III: A is for Automation SCOTTY: She’s all yours, sir. All systems automated and ready. A chimpanzee and two trainees could run her! CAPTAIN KIRK: Thank you, Mr. Scott. I’ll try not to take that personally. —STAR TREK" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“if we’re serious all the time, we’ll wear out before we get the truly serious stuff done." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I think we need to teach kids two things: 1) how to lead, and 2) how to solve interesting problems. Because the fact is, there are plenty of countries on Earth where there are people who are willing to be obedient and work harder for less money than us." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“People think focus means saying yes to the thing you’ve got to focus on. But that’s not what it means at all. It means saying no to the hundred other good ideas that there are. You have to pick carefully. I’m actually as proud of the things we haven’t done as the things I have done. Innovation is saying no to 1,000 things.” –Steve Jobs Co-founder and former CEO of Apple" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Learning to ignore things is one of the great paths to inner peace.” –Robert J. Sawyer" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Two Words for Conflict Resolution “[My mentor’s] life advice to me, when I’m going into a conflict or a difficult situation with my parents or an argument with Neil [Gaiman, her husband] is, ‘Say less.’ That’s it. Just say less." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The antithesis of mastery is the pursuit of quick fixes." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Protection from stress serves only to erode my capacity [to handle it]. Stress exposure is the stimulus for all growth, and growth actually occurs during episodes of recovery. Avoiding stress, I have learned, will never provide the capacity that life demands of me." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“To enjoy life, you don’t need fancy nonsense, but you do need to control your time and realize that most things just aren’t as serious as you make them out to be." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Pete started writing about his philosophy on the Mr. Money Mustache blog, which has grown to reach about 23 million people (and 300 million page views) since its founding. It has become a worldwide cult phenomenon with a self-organizing" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What we fear doing most is usually what we most need to do. As I" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“y lo único que haces de momento (Will de veinte años) es divagar y pensar." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“While in Kolkata, India, for this book, I stayed at the iconic Oberoi Grand. The concierge explained to me the hotel’s hiring philosophy: “You can’t bend mature bamboo. But if you get it as a young shoot, you can bend it, mold it. We hire them between the ages of 18 and 21 so we can mold them.” The concierge was one of only 15 double golden key (Clef d’Or) concierges in India, and he knew that sometimes having no experience is a huge advantage. Age doesn’t matter; an open mind does." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Never automate something that can be eliminated, and never delegate something that can be automated or streamlined." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The opposite of love is indifference, and the opposite of happiness is—here’s the clincher—boredom." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“El perfeccionismo genera indecisión, lo cual conduce a la parálisis." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Slow down and remember this: Most things make no difference. Being busy is a form of laziness—lazy thinking and indiscriminate action. Being overwhelmed is often as unproductive as doing nothing, and is far more unpleasant. Being selective—doing less—is the path of the productive. Focus on the important few and ignore the rest. Of course, before you can separate the wheat from the chaff and eliminate activities in a new environment (whether a new job or an entrepreneurial venture), you will need to try a lot to identify what pulls the most weight. Throw it all up on the wall and see what sticks. That’s part of the process, but it should not take more than a month or two. It’s easy to get caught in a flood of minutiae, and the key to not feeling rushed is remembering that lack of time is actually lack of priorities. Take time to stop and smell the roses, or—in this case—to count the pea pods. The 9–5 Illusion and Parkinson’s Law I saw a bank that said “24-Hour Banking,” but I don’t have that much time." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“El punto de partida es el corazón, no la razón" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Man’s Search for Meaning by Viktor E. Frankl The Rational Optimist by Matt Ridley The Better Angels of Our Nature by Steven Pinker Sapiens by Yuval Noah Harari Poor Charlie’s Almanack by Charlie Munger" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“A great amount of software will make outbound connections to the Internet, typically for legitimate purposes, though not necessarily. If you wish to prevent or at least learn when an application is doing this, you can use NetLimiter on Windows or Little Snitch on OS X to detect and decide to allow or block when a specific application is connecting out, and learn where it’s connecting to. You can use Wireshark for further analysis, mentioned below. You can use BlockBlock on OS X, which notifies you if a program is trying to install itself to run upon startup, even when it’s hiding itself in a nook or cranny of your system, and you have the clear option to block it if you wish. Some viruses or malware or simply annoying software will try to do this and you can decide if it should run at startup or not." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Newt Gingrich is one of the most successful political leaders of our time. Yes, we disagreed with virtually everything he did, but this is a book about strategy, not ideology. And we’ve got to give Newt his due. His strategic ability—his relentless focus on capturing the House of Representatives for the Republicans—led to one of the biggest political landslides in American history. Now that he’s in the private sector, Newt uses a brilliant illustration to explain the need to focus on the big things and let the little stuff slide: the analogy of the field mice and the antelope. A lion is fully capable of capturing, killing, and eating a field mouse. But it turns out that the energy required to do so exceeds the caloric content of the mouse itself. So a lion that spent its day hunting and eating field mice would slowly starve to death. A lion can’t live on field mice. A lion needs antelope. Antelope are big animals. They take more speed and strength to capture and kill, and once killed, they provide a feast for the lion and her pride. A lion can live a long and happy life on a diet of antelope. The distinction is important. Are you spending all your time and exhausting all your energy catching field mice? In the short term it might give you a nice, rewarding feeling. But in the long run you’re going to die. So ask yourself at the end of the day, “Did I spend today chasing mice or hunting antelope?” Another way I often approach this is to look at my to-do list and ask: “Which one of these, if done, would render all the rest either easier or completely irrelevant?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Golden Rule #1: Each delegated task must be both time-consuming and well-defined. If you’re running around like a chicken with its head cut off and assign your VA to do that for you, it doesn’t improve the order of the universe. Golden Rule #2: On a lighter note, have some fun with it. Have someone in Bangalore or Shanghai send e-mails to friends as your personal concierge to set lunch dates or similar basics. Harass your boss with odd phone calls in strong accents from unknown numbers. Being effective doesn’t mean being serious all the time. It’s fun being in control for a change. Get a bit of repression off your chest so it doesn’t turn into a complex later." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Having an unusually large goal is an adrenaline infusion that provides the endurance to overcome the inevitable trials and tribulations that go along with any goal. Realistic goals, goals restricted to the average ambition level, are uninspiring and will only fuel you through the first or second problem, at which point you throw in the towel. If the potential payoff is mediocre or average, so is your effort." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I learned that each character can be broken into components: far left, top, middle, etc. These LEGO pieces, referred to as radicals, form the building blocks from which all kanji are made." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“How has a failure, or apparent failure, set you up for later success? Do you have a “favorite failure” of yours? During my second tour in Iraq, I was commander of SEAL Team Three, Task Unit Bruiser. We were deployed to the war-torn city of Ramadi, the epicenter of the insurgency at the time. Only a few weeks into the deployment, we conducted a large operation in conjunction with U.S. Army soldiers, U.S. Marines, and friendly Iraqi Army soldiers. There were multiple elements on the battlefield, all engaged in heavy enemy contact. In the fog of war, mistakes were made. Bad luck emerged. Things went wrong. There ended up being a vicious firefight between one of my SEAL elements and a friendly Iraqi unit. An Iraqi soldier was killed and several others were wounded, including one of my SEALs. It was a nightmare. While there was plenty of blame to go around, and plenty of people who had made mistakes, I realized there was only one person to blame: me. I was the commander. I was the senior man on the battlefield, and I was responsible for everything that happened. Everything. As a leader, there is no one else to blame. Don’t make excuses. If I don’t take ownership of problems, I can’t solve them. That’s what a leader has to do: take ownership of the problems, the mistakes, and the shortfalls, and take ownership of creating and implementing solutions to get those problems solved. Take ownership." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Quest Nutrition MCT Oil Powder y Quest Nutrition Coconut Oil Powder Kettle & Fire Bone Broth dos o tres veces por semana Idebenona «es otro compuesto que tomo [400 mg] cuando vuelo o antes de realizar ejercicio intenso. Considero la idebenona como una versión de la coenzima Q10. Se absorbe mejor y llega a la mitocondria con más facilidad. Es como un antioxidante mitocondrial»." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Information products are low-cost, fast to manufacture, and time-consuming for competitors to duplicate." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“People don’t like being sold products, but we all like being told stories. Work" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“You do not have to sacrifice the integrity of your art for a respectable income. You just need to create a great experience and charge enough." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“No estás dedicando mucho tiempo a reflexionar sobre esta especie de macrooptimización." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“cuerpo perfecto en 4 horas," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Puede que la acción no siempre traiga la felicidad, pero no hay felicidad sin acción." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Aprende de los grandes, no de la competencia" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“never forget that underneath all the math and the MBA bullshit talk, we are all still emotionally driven human" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The best way I can describe the feeling is a Finnish word, “sisu”—the mental strength to continue to try even after you feel you’ve reached the limits of your abilities. I don’t think failure is sometimes part of the process—it always is. When you feel you can’t go on, know that you’re just getting started." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“This doesn’t mean you ignore planning. I encourage you to make huge, ambitious plans. Just remember that the big-beyond-belief things are accomplished when you deconstruct them into the smallest possible pieces and focus on each “moment of impact,” one step at a time." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“¿hay algo que puedas hacer por ella? Y que lo vieras como una manera de beneficiarla a ella y no a ti. El" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Puede que estés pensando: “¿Cómo puedo sacar lo mejor posible el trabajo del curso?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Truth is, young creative minds don’t need more ideas, they need to take more responsibility with the ideas they’ve already got." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“En esto consiste la estrategia del lienzo, en ayudarte ayudando a los demás. En realizar un esfuerzo coordinado para cambiar tu satisfacción a corto plazo por una recompensa a largo plazo." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“That Motel Weekend by James Donner, The Srimad Devi Bhagavatam, and The Metamorphosis by Franz Kafka." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“(GST, o «entrenamiento gimnástico de fuerza»)." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Leche de magnesia. «Citrato de magnesio, cloruro de magnesio y glicinato de magnesio… Cuando empecé con la dieta cetogénica comencé a tener calambres. Con estos suplementos no tengo ningún calambre… Si tuviera que elegir un solo suplemento de" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Should We All Take a Bit of Lithium?” The New York Times (Sept. 13, 2014)." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Answer me this: would you work harder to earn $100 or avoid losing $100? The smiley optimist says the former, but if research from the Center for Experimental Social Science at New York University is any indication, fear of loss is the home-run winner. Experimental groups given $15 and then told the $15 would be rescinded if they lost a subsequent auction routinely overbid the most. Groups offered $15 if they won weren’t nearly as “committed." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“the most important lesson of language learning: what you study is more important than how you study." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The Director’s Chair is with Francis Ford Coppola (The Godfather, Apocalypse Now, etc.), and Robert refers later to this quote from Francis: “Failure is not necessarily durable. Remember that the things that they fire you for when you are young are the same things that they give lifetime achievement awards for when you’re old.” ROBERT: “Even if I didn’t sell Mariachi, I would have learned so much by doing that project. That was the idea—I’m there to learn. I’m not there to win; I’m there to learn, because then I’ll win, eventually. . . . “You’ve got to be able to look at your failures and know that there’s a key to success in every failure. If you look through the ashes long enough, you’ll find something. I’ll give you one. Quentin [Tarantino] asked me, ‘Do you want to do one of these short films called Four Rooms [where each director can create the film of their choosing, but it has to be limited to a single hotel room, and include New Year’s Eve and a bellhop]?’ and my hand went up right away, instinctively. . . . “The movie bombed. In the ashes of that failure, I can find at least two keys of success. On the set when I was doing it, I had cast Antonio Banderas as the dad and had this cool little Mexican as his son. They looked really close together. Then I found the best actress I could find, this little half-Asian girl. She was amazing. I needed an Asian mom. I really wanted them to look like a family. It’s New Year’s Eve, because [it] was dictated by the script, so they’re all dressed in tuxedos. I was looking at Antonio and his Asian wife and thinking, ‘Wow, they look like this really cool, international spy couple. What if they were spies, and these two little kids, who can barely tie their shoes, didn’t know they were spies?’ I thought of that on the set of Four Rooms. There are four of those [Spy Kids movies] now and a TV series coming. “So that’s one. The other one was, after [Four Rooms] failed, I thought, ‘I still love short films.’ Anthologies never work. We shouldn’t have had four stories; it should have been three stories because that’s probably three acts, and it should just be the same director instead of different directors because we didn’t know what each person was doing. I’m going to try it again. Why on earth would I try it again, if I knew they didn’t work? Because you figured something out when you’re doing it the first time, and [the second attempt] was Sin City.” TIM: “Amazing." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“En otras palabras, descubrir oportunidades para favorecer la creatividad de los demás, localizar salidas y personas para establecer una colaboración y eliminar distracciones que entorpezcan su progreso y concentración." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Be willing to fail or succeed on who you really are. Don’t ever try to be anything else. What you are is good enough for whatever it is you’re doing." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Marc es autor de la obra Los delitos del futuro (Ariel, 2015)." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“y en la microoptimización," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Focus on great for a few things and good enough for the rest. Perfection is a good ideal and direction to have, but recognize it for what it is: an impossible destination." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What advice would you give to a smart, driven college student about to enter the “real world”? What advice should they ignore? Advice: Follow your intellectual curiosity over whatever is “hot” right now. If your curiosity ever leads you to a place where society eventually wants to go, you’ll get paid extremely well. Do everything you were going to do, but with less angst, less suffering, less emotion. Everything takes time. Ignore: The news. Complainers, angry people, high-conflict people. Anyone trying to scare you about a danger that isn’t clear and present. Don’t do things that you know are morally wrong. Not because someone is watching, but because you are. Self-esteem is just the reputation that you have with yourself. You’ll always know. Ignore the unfairness—there is no fair. Play the hand that you’re dealt to the best of your ability. People are highly consistent, so you will eventually get what you deserve and so will they. In the end, everyone gets the same judgment: death." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Ésta es la razón por la que yo uso los servicios de Uber o un pseudónimo siempre que utilizo un vehículo con conductor en cualquier parte del mundo." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“más del 80 por ciento de los grandes triunfadores que he entrevistado practican alguna clase de meditación cada mañana." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“No me preocupará perder un amigo si tengo cien, pero si tengo dos amigos sí me preocuparé. No me preocupará perder mi trabajo si mi jefe número uno me despide porque tengo miles de jefes en periódicos de todas partes." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“La persona que despeja el camino es la que controla en última instancia su dirección, de la misma manera que el lienzo da forma al cuadro." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“cuando juzgas a los demás sólo es una manera de no mirarnos a nosotros mismos;" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“We equate being smart and being driven as the ways to get ahead. But sometimes, an attitude of alert watchfulness is far wiser and more effective. Learning to follow your nose, pulling on threads of curiosity or interest, may take you places that being driven will never lead you to." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The most important thing I’ve learned about nutrition is you need to deserve your carbs" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“La diversificación sirve casi en cualquier ámbito de la vida para reducir el estrés»." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Life is always happening for us, not to us. It’s our job to find out where the benefit is. If we do, life is magnificent." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“utilizo un vehículo con conductor en cualquier parte del mundo." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“To justify their avoidance of embarrassment, the whole profession tells the rest of us, based on “extensive scientific studies,” that black is white." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Circulation, de Beats Antique y Black Out the Sun, de Sevendust, dependiendo de si necesito fluir o activarme." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“My first job. Ah, the memories. I’m hired for minimum wage as the cleaner at an ice cream parlor and quickly realize that the big boss’s methods duplicate effort. I do it my way, finish in one hour instead of eight, and spend the rest of the time reading kung-fu magazines and practicing karate kicks outside. I am fired in a record three days, left with the parting comment, “Maybe someday you’ll understand the value of hard work.” It seems I still don’t." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“little part of me dies every time someone tells me they’ve taken a job as a “steppingstone” to something else, when they clearly aren’t invested in it. You have one life to live. Time is valuable. If you’re using steppingstones, you’re also likely relying on someone else’s path or definition of success. Make your own. What are bad recommendations you hear in your profession or area of expertise?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Richard Dawkins, The Selfish Gene," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Our life is frittered away by detail. . . . Simplify, simplify. . . . A man is rich in proportion to the number of things which he can afford to let alone.” —Henry David Thoreau, Walden" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“siempre que te encuentres con alguien le digas en tu cabeza “te quiero" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“So the goal isn’t to get good ideas; the goal is to get bad ideas. Because once you get enough bad ideas, then some good ones have to show up." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“When I let go of what I am, I become what I might be." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Para tener una vida de éxito que entre dentro de la media, no hace falta planificar demasiado. Basta con no meterte en problemas, seguir una formación académica y buscarte un trabajo que te pueda gustar." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Life is too short to be busy." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Be present above all else. Desire is suffering (Buddha). Anger is a hot coal that you hold in your hand while waiting to throw it at someone else (Buddhist saying). If you can’t see yourself working with someone for life, don’t work with them for a day. Reading (learning) is the ultimate meta-skill and can be traded for anything else. All the real benefits in life come from compound interest. Earn with your mind, not your time. 99% of all effort is wasted. Total honesty at all times. It’s almost always possible to be honest and positive. Praise specifically, criticize generally (Warren Buffett). Truth is that which has predictive power. Watch every thought. (Always ask, “Why am I having this thought?”) All greatness comes from suffering. Love is given, not received. Enlightenment is the space between your thoughts (Eckhart Tolle). Mathematics is the language of nature. Every moment has to be complete in and of itself. A" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“There is always constant pressure to conform. But originality only happens on the edges of reality." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What do people agree merely by convention, and what is the truth?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“if I check e-mail once per week and that results in an average loss of two sales per week, totaling $80 in lost profit, I will continue checking once per week because $200 (10 hours of time) minus $80 is still a $120 net gain, not to mention the enormous benefits of completing other main tasks in those 10 hours. If you calculate the financial and emotional benefit of completing just one main task (such as landing a major client or completing a life-changing trip), the value of batching is much more than the per-hour savings." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“XTEND Perform, de Scivation, es un suplemento de aminoácidos ramificados (BCAA): leucina, isoleucina y valina en una combinación de 2 a 1 a 1, de forma que la leucina es el aminoácido ramificado predominante en la fórmula. «La leucina es un potente activador de la vía mTOR, lo cual es bueno; activar la vía mTOR en el músculo esquelético es realmente importante al realizar un poco de ejercicio. Yo uso este producto antes y durante la práctica de ejercicio" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Películas: El caso Bourne30 (Bourne Identity), Zombies party31 (Shaun of the Dead)." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Most likely, the problem won’t be around in a year, but my reputation of how I dealt with it will." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Be the silence that listens.”–Tara Brach Teacher of meditation and emotional healing, author of Radical Acceptance" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“KetoCaNa y KetoForce" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The Atlantic con el título: «Hacking the President’s DNA». Si" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“clarity of writing indicates clarity of thinking" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“From Japan to Monaco, from globetrotting single mothers to multimillionaire racecar drivers, the basic rules of successful NR are surprisingly uniform and predictably divergent from what the rest of the world is doing." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Álbum para «fluir»: «Gran Hotel Buenos Aires», de Federico Aubele." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you’re in a dangerous place, call this number: (800) 273-8255. I didn’t have it, and I wish I had. It’s the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline. They also have live chat at suicidepreventionlifeline.org. It’s available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, in both English and Spanish." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“would I ever use ayahuasca again after that? Here’s why: Over subsequent weeks, I realized that some of the most critical relationships in my life had been completely repaired. I saw things differently, reacted differently, and interacted differently, as if I had been reprogrammed. Those changes all persist to this day. So, there’s a huge potential upside but equally huge potential downside if taken lightly or done with the wrong people. I mention this cautionary tale because ayahuasca has become terribly trendy. It’s THE thing to talk about at cocktail parties, and I shudder every time I hear something along the lines of “I’m going to my friend’s place in Manhattan for an aya ceremony this Sunday night. She mail-ordered some brew from Hawaii, and we’re doing it together. It’s going to be amazing.” There are now hundreds of new-age folks—out-there yoga instructors, didgeridoo players, whatever—who decide to “play shaman" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“El futuro ya está aquí, sólo que está repartido de manera desigual." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“As Billy points out, if your last three turns are precise, then what you’re internalizing on the lift ride up is precision. So I carry this on to the guys who I train in the finance world, for example: ending the work day with very high quality, which for one thing means you’re internalizing quality overnight." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“camiseta en Manhattan en la que ponía que las malas decisiones dan buenas historias." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Álbum para «activarse»: «One-X», de Three Days Grace." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I can’t give you a surefire formula for success, but I can give you a formula for failure: try to please everybody all the time." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“can’t give you a surefire formula for success, but I can give you a formula for failure: try to please everybody all the time." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Students are subordinate to materials, much like novice cooks are subordinate to recipes. If you select the wrong material, the wrong textbook, the wrong group of words, it doesn’t matter how much (or how well) you study. It doesn’t matter how good your teacher is. One must find the highest-frequency material. Material beats method." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Pero si quieres algo extraordinario tienes dos caminos: 1) Ser el mejor en una cosa específica. 2) Ser muy bueno (entre el 25 por ciento mejor) en dos o más cosas." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Die Menschen träumen also eigentlich nicht davon, eine Million Euro auf dem Konto zu haben. Sie träumen vielmehr von einem völlig freien Leben, das dieses Geld ihnen ermöglichen soll. Die Frage ist also: Wie kann man frei und unabhängig sein, ohne eine Million zu haben?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Si seguimos desarrollando la tecnología sin inteligencia o prudencia, puede que nuestro sirviente acabe siendo nuestro verdugo." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What was the “grail”? 25 mg of acarbose (¼ pill) with food." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Álbum para «fluir»: «Luciano Essential Mix» (2009, Ibiza) interpretado por DeadMau5." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“When you feel overwhelmed or unfocused, what do you do? In my photos on my phone, I made an album called “calm.” I have photos and videos of my animals, funny pictures, memes, inspiring quotes, articles about neurology, gratitude lists, all sorts of things that make me smile and reconnect to my source. It’s like my own personal digital Zen museum." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“For People Starting Out—Say “Yes” When Derek was 18, he was living in Boston, attending the Berklee College of Music. “I’m in this band where the bass player, one day in rehearsal, says, ‘Hey man, my agent just offered me this gig—it’s like $ 75 to play at a pig show in Vermont.’ He rolls his eyes, and he says, ‘I’m not gonna do it, do you want the gig?’ I’m like, ‘Fuck yeah, a paying gig?! Oh, my God! Yes!’ So, I took the gig to go up to Burlington, Vermont. “And, I think it was a $ 58 round-trip bus ticket. I get to this pig show, I strap my acoustic guitar on, and I walked around a pig show playing music. I did that for about 3 hours, and took the bus home, and the next day, the booking agent called me up, and said, ‘Hey, yeah, so you did a really good job at the pig show. . . .’ “So many opportunities, and 10 years of stage experience, came from that one piddly little pig show. . . . When you’re earlier in your career, I think the best strategy is to just say ‘yes’ to everything. Every little gig. You just never know what are the lottery tickets." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“And when—despite your best efforts—you feel like you’re losing at the game of life, remember: Even the best of the best sometimes feel this way." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Soy anciano y he conocido gran cantidad de problemas, pero la mayoría de ellos no ha llegado a suceder jamás." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Álbum para «activarse»: «Cold Day Memory», de Sevendust." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Don’t Be a Donkey TIM: “What advice would you give to your 30-year-old self?” DEREK: “Don’t be a donkey.” TIM: “And what does that mean?” DEREK: “Well, I meet a lot of 30-year-olds who are trying to pursue many different directions at once, but not making progress in any, right? They get frustrated that the world wants them to pick one thing, because they want to do them all: ‘Why do I have to choose? I don’t know what to choose!’ But the problem is, if you’re thinking short-term, then [you act as though] if you don’t do them all this week, they won’t happen. The solution is to think long-term. To realize that you can do one of these things for a few years, and then do another one for a few years, and then another. You’ve probably heard the fable, I think it’s ‘Buridan’s ass,’ about a donkey who is standing halfway between a pile of hay and a bucket of water. He just keeps looking left to the hay, and right to the water, trying to decide. Hay or water, hay or water? He’s unable to decide, so he eventually falls over and dies of both hunger and thirst. A donkey can’t think of the future. If he did, he’d realize he could clearly go first to drink the water, then go eat the hay. “So, my advice to my 30-year-old self is, don’t be a donkey. You can do everything you want to do. You just need foresight and patience." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Geld kann seinen praktischen Wert vervielfachen, abhängig davon, wie viele Ws Sie in Ihrem Leben selbst kontrollieren:  Sie tun,  Sie es tun,  Sie es tun und mit  Sie es tun. Ich nenne das den ." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“suicide.org for a list of international hotlines." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Hazte a la idea de que decir que no a menudo exige cambiar popularidad por respeto." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“¿Cuál es el peor consejo que ves u oyes dar en tu entorno?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What advice would you give to a smart, driven college student about to enter the “real world”? Most of the game is about persistence. It is the most important trait. Sure, when you get an opportunity, you have to perform and you have to exceed beyond all expectations, but getting that chance is the hardest part. So keep the vision clear in your head and every day refuse all obstacles to get to the goal." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Dealing with the temporary frustration of not making progress is an integral part of the path towards excellence. In fact, it is essential and something that every single elite athlete has had to learn to deal with. If the pursuit of excellence was easy, everyone would do it. In fact, this impatience in dealing with frustration is the primary reason that most people fail to achieve their goals. Unreasonable expectations timewise, resulting in unnecessary frustration, due to a perceived feeling of failure. Achieving the extraordinary is not a linear process. The secret is to show up, do the work, and go home. A blue collar work ethic married to indomitable will. It is literally that simple. Nothing interferes. Nothing can sway you from your purpose. Once the decision is made, simply refuse to budge. Refuse to compromise." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“You can be a juicy ripe peach and there’ll still be someone who doesn’t like peaches." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Chapter One I walk down the street. There is a deep hole in the sidewalk. I fall in. I am lost . . . I am helpless. It isn’t my fault. It takes forever to find a way out. Chapter Two I walk down the same street. There is a deep hole in the sidewalk. I pretend I don’t see it. I fall in again. I can’t believe I am in this same place. But it isn’t my fault. It still takes a long time to get out. Chapter Three I walk down the same street. There is a deep hole in the sidewalk. I see it is there. I still fall in . . . it’s a habit . . . but, my eyes are open. I know where I am. It is my fault. I get out immediately. Chapter Four I walk down the same street. There is a deep hole in the sidewalk. I walk around it. Chapter Five I walk down another street." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Different is better when it is more effective or more fun. If" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«Si no tienes nada que esconder, no debes preocuparte por tu privacidad," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Being busy is most often used as a guise for avoiding the few critically important but uncomfortable actions. The options are almost limitless for creating “busyness”: You could call a few hundred unqualified sales leads, reorganize your Outlook contacts, walk across the office to request documents you don’t really need, or fuss with your BlackBerry for a few hours when you should be prioritizing." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Thinking of what makes me happy doesn’t give me the same clarity as thinking about what gives me bliss. For me, it’s the freedom I feel on top of a mountain or the breeze I feel laying on a catamaran net halfway around the world. Bliss is the highest peak of what brings you joy. If happiness is just above the status quo, bliss is what makes you feel most alive. Expect it will take courage to follow your bliss, and expect it will suck at times. Expect you’re going to have to take risks for it. Expect others won’t necessarily understand. And also expect that what gives you bliss today may not be what does tomorrow. Just follow it all over again." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Scott me ayudó a reorientar mi atención hacia los sistemas, por usar su propio lenguaje, en lugar de concentrarme en las metas." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“La magia es que poca gente sabe dibujar bien y escribir chistes." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Sharpening your logical and practical mental toolbox is not being an atheist or unspiritual." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Too often, aspiring artists put pressure on themselves to make their creative work their only source of income. In my experience, it’s a road to misery. If art is your sole source of income, then there’s unrelenting pressure on that art, and mercenary pressure is the enemy of the creative elves inside you trying to get the work done." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“We have no scar to show for happiness. We learn so little from peace.”–Chuck Palahniuk Famed American author, best known for Fight Club" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The biggest mistake you can make is to accept the norms of your time." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“How might you put this into practice? Here are a few things I’ve done repeatedly for 3 to 14 days at a time to simulate losing all my money: Sleeping in a sleeping bag, whether on my living room floor or outside Wearing cheap white shirts and a single pair of jeans for the entire 3 to 14 days Using CouchSurfing.com or a similar service to live in hosts’ homes for free, even if in your own city Eating only A) instant oatmeal and/or B) rice and beans Drinking only water and cheap instant coffee or tea Cooking everything using a Kelly Kettle. This is a camping device that can generate heat from nearly anything" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What I’m finding is that microdoses of LSD or mushrooms may be very helpful for depression because they make you feel better enough that you do something about what’s wrong with your life. We’ve made [depression] an illness. It may be the body’s way of saying, ‘You better deal with something, because it’s making you really sad." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It’s impossible to be angry and grateful simultaneously. When you’re grateful, there is no fear. You can’t be fearful and grateful simultaneously." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“P2 (WordPress theme) for replacing email—p2theme.com" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Here are two truisms to keep in mind: 1. Doing something unimportant well does not make it important. 2. Requiring a lot of time does not make a task important." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“One of the most common Kindle highlights from The 4-Hour Workweek complements this: “A person’s success in life can usually be measured by the number of uncomfortable conversations he or she is willing to have." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The future is here. It’s just not widely distributed yet. —WILLIAM GIBSON," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Three to five billion new consumers are coming online in the next 6 years. Holy cow, that’s extraordinary. What do they need? What" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Esto no significa ver los problemas, aceptarlos y dejar que degeneren." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“y que debemos sacrificar nuestra privacidad para tener seguridad.»" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Don’t follow a model that doesn’t work. If the recipe sucks, it doesn’t matter how good a cook you are." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“En esencia, los sistemas se pueden entender como si te plantearas: «¿Qué habilidades o relaciones duraderas puedo desarrollar?», frente a: «¿Qué meta a corto plazo puedo conseguir?»." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“She is the author of Unstoppable: My Life So Far." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“hormone replacement therapy (HRT) for both men and women" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The things you own end up owning you.” –Chuck Palahniuk American author, best known for Fight Club" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Prüvit KETO//OS: cetonas exógenas cremosas, saben fenomenal" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“the importance of creating large, uninterrupted blocks of time, during which your mind can wander, ponder, and find the signal amidst the noise. If you’re lucky, it might even create a signal, or connect two signals (core ideas) that have never shaken hands before." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“El artículo de David Brooks titulado «The Moral Bucket List». La" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Si hicieras eso mismo con tu vida profesional, tendrías que dedicar cuatro mil horas, o dos años de trabajo." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Based on everything I’ve seen, a simple recipe can work: focus on what’s in front of you, design great days to create a great life, and try not to make the same mistake twice. That’s it." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“committed to one push-up before bed. Yes," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Lo que más tememos hacer suele ser lo que más necesitamos hacer." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Si piensas en algo más de tres veces por semana, tienes que escribir sobre eso”»." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“don’t get daunted out of shooting for something you want, especially by potentially unfounded assumptions." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Note from Tim Ferriss: I asked Tim to share a fun piece of related background. Here it is. In early 2015, Elon reached out to schedule a call. He said he had read some Wait But Why posts and was wondering if I might be interested in writing about some of the industries he’s involved in. I flew out to California to meet with him, tour the Tesla and SpaceX factories, and spend some time with the executives at both companies to learn the full story about what they were doing and why. Over the next six months, I wrote four very long posts about Tesla and SpaceX and the history of the industries surrounding them (during which I had regular conversations with Elon in order to really get to the bottom of the questions I had). In the first three posts, I tried to answer the question, “Why is Elon doing what he’s doing?” In the fourth and final post of the series, I examined Elon himself and tried to answer the question, “Why is Elon able to do what he’s doing?” That’s what led me to explore all these ideas around reasoning from first principles (being a “chef” who comes up with a recipe) versus reasoning by analogy (being a “cook” who follows someone else’s recipe)." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The future is here. It’s just not widely distributed yet. —WILLIAM GIBSON, author of Neuromancer; coined term “cyberspace” in 1984" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The Silver Spoon, the best-selling Italian cookbook of the last 50 years." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The Beggar King and the Secret of Happiness: A True Story by Joel ben Izzy." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“being able to view things as they are as opposed to what everybody says about them," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Anyone who lives within their means suffers from a lack of imagination. —OSCAR WILDE, Irish dramatist and novelist" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It’s easy to convince yourself that things need to be hard, that if you’re not redlining, you’re not trying hard enough. This leads us to look for paths of most resistance, often creating unnecessary hardship in the process." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Ni tampoco significa que haya que racionalizarlos hasta convertirlos en algo bueno." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Cualquier cosa de Kevin Kelly, la más reciente es The Inevitable." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“el éxito de una persona en la vida suele poder medirse por la cantidad de conversaciones incómodas" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Do not let people interrupt you. Find your focus and you’ll find your lifestyle." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Morning routine Every morning, Justin does 20 minutes of Transcendental Meditation followed by outdoor kettlebell swings with 24 kg (53 lbs). I do exactly the same thing 2 to 3 times per week, aiming for 50 to 75 repetitions of two-handed swings per The 4-Hour Body." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Anyone who lives within their means suffers from a lack of imagination.” –Oscar Wilde" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Love of bustle is not industry. —SENECA" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Fussell, Chris: “‘Life is a series of choices—take accountability for yours." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“La vida es un deporte de contacto, y los cisnes negros vendrán a visitarte tarde o temprano." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Ser capaz de abandonar lo que no funciona es consustancial a ser un ganador." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“word choice and ordering (diction and syntax). He" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Toma la decisión de hacer cada día una cosa que te dé miedo." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«La felicidad es querer lo que ya tienes.»" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The next morning, I began a dissection of my business and personal life through the lenses of two questions: 1. Which 20% of sources are causing 80% of my problems and unhappiness? 2. Which 20% of sources are resulting in 80% of my desired outcomes and happiness?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If a narrative isn’t working, well then, really, why are you using it? The narrative isn’t done to you; the narrative is something that you choose. Once we can dig deep and find a different narrative, then we ought to be able to change the game." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The privilege of a lifetime is being who you are.” –Joseph Campbell American mythologist and writer, known for The Hero with a Thousand Faces" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“This presents a very curious phenomenon. There are two synergistic approaches for increasing productivity that are inversions of each other: 1. Limit tasks to the important to shorten work time (80/20). 2. Shorten work time to limit tasks to the important (Parkinson’s Law). The best solution is to use both together: Identify the few critical tasks that contribute most to income and schedule them with very short and clear deadlines. If you haven’t identified the mission-critical tasks and set aggressive start and end times for their completion, the unimportant becomes the important. Even if you know what’s critical, without deadlines that create focus, the minor tasks forced upon you (or invented, in the case of the entrepreneur) will swell to consume time until another bit of minutiae jumps in to replace" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Si produces bastantes ideas malas, se te ocurrirán algunas buenas «La gente con dificultades para tener buenas ideas, si te cuenta la verdad, te dirá que tampoco tiene muchas ideas malas." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The fishing is best where the fewest go, and the collective insecurity of the world makes it easy for people to hit home runs while everyone else is aiming for base hits. There is just less competition for bigger goals. Doing big things begins with asking for them properly." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Since all of them overestimated the competition, no one even showed up." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Gain a language and you gain a second lens through which to question and understand the world." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I did make a conscious decision, a long time ago, to choose time over money, since you can always make more money. And I’ve always understood that the best investment of my limited time on earth is to spend it with people I love. I suppose it’s possible I’ll lie on my deathbed regretting that I didn’t work harder, write more, and say everything I had to say, but I think what I’ll really wish is that I could have one more round of Delanceys with Nick, another long late-night talk with Lauren, one last good hard laugh with Harold. Life is too short to be busy." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«Los pingüinos son, en esencia, salchichas emplumadas para osos polares.»" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Show up in every moment like you’re meant to be there, because your energy precedes anything you could possibly say." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“People think it must be fun to be a super genius, but they don’t realize how hard it is to put up with all the idiots in the world." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If regular exercise could be bottled, it would be a miracle drug." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Pero la gente que tiene muchas ideas buenas, si te dice la verdad, te contará que tiene incluso más ideas malas." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“God will not have his work made manifest by cowards.”—Ralph Waldo Emerson" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“5. Join ProfNet, which is a service that journalists use to find experts to quote for articles. Getting PR is simple if you stop shouting and start listening. Use steps 1, 3, and 4 to demonstrate credibility and online research to respond to journalist queries. Done properly, this will get you featured in media ranging from small local publications to the New York Times and ABC News." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“* Do you have any quotes that you live your life by or think of often? “We are simultaneously gods and worms.”—Abraham Maslow * Advice to your 25-or 30-year-old self? “I would encourage my younger self to just not be afraid, right? To realize that a lot of things that were—I don’t want to say crippling anxieties, but—definitely ever-pervasive fears in my life growing up were unnecessary. A lot of time was wasted, a lot of energy was wasted, being worried.” TF: Across all guests, the most common answer to this question is some variation of “It’s all going to be alright." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The quality of your questions determines the quality of your life." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“That’s the underlying philosophy of Aoki Bootcamp:" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Kegenix: con un sabor más parecido al ácido Kool-Aid" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“A lot of time was wasted, a lot of energy was wasted, being worried." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Estar ocupado suele ser un pretexto para evitar unas pocas acciones incómodas que son las que de verdad importan." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“escribir el 20 por ciento de las actividades y la gente que me causan el 80 por ciento o más de las emociones negativas." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“No valores únicamente las posibles desventajas de actuar." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“For every stage in life, you discover books that speak to you, that help you change, to become the version of yourself that you need to be. It’s so very difficult to choose one book." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The more you run from your fears, the bigger they get, but the more you go into them, the more they tend to vanish like a mirage." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Conditions are never perfect. “Someday” is a disease that will take your dreams to the grave with you." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“But if you don’t cultivate ‘turning it on’ as a way of life in the little moments—and there are hundreds of times more little moments than big—then there’s no chance in the big moments. . . . I believe that when you’re not cultivating quality, you’re essentially cultivating sloppiness." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Fear itself is quite fear-inducing. Most intelligent people in the world dress it up as something else: optimistic denial." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Brené Brown" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I have a good friend, let’s call him Slim Berriss, who’s devised a schedule for himself that combines practical microdosing and pre-planned 1- to 2-day treks into deeper territory. For him, this blend provides a structured approach for increasing everyday well-being, developing empathy, and intensively exploring the “other.” Here is what it looks like: Microdosing of ibogaine hydrochloride twice weekly, on Mondays and Fridays. The dosage is 4 mg, or roughly 1/200 or less of the full ceremonial dosage at Slim’s bodyweight of 80 kg. He dislikes LSD and finds psilocybin in mushrooms hard to dose accurately. Woe unto he who “microdoses” and gets hit like a freight train while checking in luggage at an airport (poor Slim). The encapsulated ibogaine was gifted to him to solve this problem. Moderate dosing of psilocybin (2.2 to 3.5 g), as ground mushrooms in chocolate, once every 6 to 8 weeks. His highly individual experience falls somewhere in the 150 to 200 mcg description of LSD by Jim later in this piece. Slim is supervised by an experienced sitter. Higher-dose ayahuasca once every 3 to 6 months for 2 consecutive nights. The effects could be compared (though very different experiences) to 500+ mcg of LSD. Slim is supervised by 1 to 2 experienced sitters in a close-knit group of 4 to 6 people maximum. NOTE: In the 4 weeks prior to these sessions, he does not consume any ibogaine or psilocybin." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“You don’t “succeed” because you have no weaknesses; you succeed because you find your unique strengths and focus on developing habits around them. To" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Lazy: A Manifesto" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“He recommended I read the book Words That Work, written by Republican political strategist Frank Luntz. It’s brilliant. Matt added, “If someone likes that book, then I might point them to George Lakoff. He has a great seminal work from the 1980s called Women, Fire, and Dangerous Things.” He loves books about framing and language." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“También es importante sopesar el coste atroz de no actuar. Si no persigues lo que te entusiasma, ¿dónde" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you hit two crappy pages, even if you never use them, you can feel “successful” for the day. Sometimes you barely eke out two pages, and they are truly terrible. But at least 50% of the time, you’ll produce perhaps 5, 10, or even—on the rare miracle day—20 pages. Draft ugly and edit pretty." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“A little part of me dies every time someone tells me they’ve taken a job as a “steppingstone” to something else, when they clearly aren’t invested in it. You have one life to live. Time is valuable. If you’re using steppingstones, you’re also likely relying on someone else’s path or definition of success. Make your own." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“El capitalismo premia lo que es raro y a la vez valioso." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“banging on a keyboard, and coming home to a drunken existence on the weekends?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Throw it all up on the wall and see what sticks." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Usa BitLocker con Windows o FileVault con OS X." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The Checklist Manifesto." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“CREATIVITY IS AN INFINITE RESOURCE. THE MORE YOU SPEND, THE MORE YOU HAVE.” This" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In the last five years, what new belief, behavior, or habit has most improved your life? Mindfulness meditation, which I started doing regularly about five years ago, has changed my life more than any other behavior. I feel like it rewired my brain (probably because it did). At first, I felt the effects very powerfully. After a few years, it feels less dramatic but necessary. If I go more than a couple days without sitting, I feel off. Wish I had started many years before." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The 4-Hour Workweek Films: The Bourne Identity, Shaun of the Dead “Flow” album: Gran Hotel Buenos Aires by Federico Aubele “Wake-up” album: One-X by Three Days Grace The 4-Hour Body Films: Casino Royale, Snatch “Flow” album: Luciano Essential Mix (2009, Ibiza) featuring DeadMau5 “Wake-up” album: Cold Day Memory by Sevendust The 4-Hour Chef Films: Babe (Yes, the pig movie. It was the first thing that popped up for free under Amazon Prime. I watched it once as a joke and it stuck. “That’ll do, pig. That’ll do.” Gets me every time.) “Flow” album: “Just Jammin’” extended single track by Gramatik “Wake-up” album: Dear Agony by Breaking Benjamin Tools of Titans Films: None! I was traveling and used people-watching at late-night cafés in Paris and elsewhere as my “movie.” “Flow” album: I Choose Noise by Hybrid “Wake-up” album: Over the Under by Down" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“But the truth is, you can’t really earn trust over time with people without being somewhat vulnerable [first]." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In any field, there’s usually some kind of mythological reward you’re supposed to receive if everybody considers you a success. But in my experience, there’s a lot more honest joy to be had from taking pleasure in the work itself." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“There is more freedom to be gained from practicing poverty than chasing wealth. Suffer a little regularly and you often cease to suffer." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«¿Qué es lo peor que podría pasar si dejara de hacer lo que estoy considerando?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“You are the author of your own life, and it’s never too late to replace the stories you tell yourself and the world. It’s never too late to begin a new chapter, add a surprise twist, or change genres entirely." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Los datos quedarán encriptados cuando la máquina esté apagada o en modo suspendido." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Make commitments in a high-energy state so that you can’t back out when you’re in a low-energy state." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“This idea that we’re either courageous or chicken shit is just not true, because most of us are afraid and brave at the exact same moment, all day long." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«Quienes tenemos la suerte de vivir en un mundo en el que tenemos lo suficiente y tenemos un techo y tenemos alimento, nos vemos atrapados en ese bucle de recordar los detalles equivocados." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Te convertirás en algo raro siempre y cuando reúnas dos o más «bienes preciosos» y nadie más tenga esa combinación…" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Neil Gaiman’s “Make Good Art” commencement speech, which he gave at Philadelphia’s University of the Arts. I’ve watched the video dozens of times on YouTube during rough periods. Our mutual favorite portion is “The moment that you feel that, just possibly, you’re walking down the street naked, exposing too much of your heart and your mind and what exists on the inside, showing too much of yourself. That’s the moment you may be starting to get it right.” And, yes," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What advice would you give to a smart, driven college student about to enter the “real world”? What advice should they ignore? Advice I’d give: Make sure you have something every day you’re looking forward to." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“no actuar es el mayor riesgo de todos." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“but I know time really is zero-sum, and it’s the one thing that no one’s making more of." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“No olvidamos cuántas veces nos han rechazado." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“You are only as young as the last time you changed your mind.’—Timothy Leary." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“#1—What if I did the opposite for 48 hours?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“¿Y, en ese caso, qué? ¿Cómo podría revertir los posibles daños?»." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“we wear our ability to get by on very little sleep as a kind of badge of honor that symbolizes work ethic, or toughness, or some other virtue—but really, it’s a total profound failure of priorities and of self-respect." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“For podcasting: In the first 3 to 9 months, you should be honing your craft and putting out increasingly better work. “Good content is the best SEO,” as Robert Scoble originally told me. You" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I do want to live a brave life. I do want to live in the arena. And if you’re going to live in the arena, the only guarantee is you will get your ass kicked. . . . Daring greatly is being vulnerable. So when you ask yourself, ‘Did I dare greatly today?’ The big question I ask is, ‘When I had the opportunity, did I choose courage over comfort?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The superheroes you have in your mind (idols, icons, titans, billionaires, etc.) are nearly all walking flaws who’ve maximized 1 or 2 strengths. Humans are imperfect creatures. You don’t “succeed” because you have no weaknesses; you succeed because you find your unique strengths and focus on developing habits around them. To make this crystal-clear, I’ve deliberately included two sections in this book (pages 197 and 616) that will make you think: “Wow, Tim Ferriss is a mess. How the hell does he ever get anything done?” Everyone is fighting a battle you know nothing about. The heroes in this book are no different. Everyone struggles. Take solace in that." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“if you have a very clear vision of where you want to go, then the rest of it is much easier." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“My answer is: Be clear that your ladder is leaning against the right building." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Seeking Wisdom: From Darwin to Munger" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“now routinely listen to her. To have your mind explode, search “Tchaikovsky Piano Concerto No 1 FULL Argerich Charles Dutoit” and check out minute 31." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Cynicism is a disease that robs people of the gift of life." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Notice how often he reframes the question (examines whether the question is the right question) before answering. In several cases, how he dissects wording is as interesting as his answers." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Valora el coste de no actuar," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Hell, you don’t even get to be born unless your mother has the courage to have you." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“enthusiastically adopted biofeedback HRV training," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“There were three reasons why we survived: We had no money, we had no technology, and we had no plan. Every dollar, we used very carefully." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«Es esencial perderse y cambiar de planes de vez en cuando. Es una fuente de creatividad y perspectiva. El peligro de los esquemas, los ayudantes capaces y la planificación es que puedes acabar viviendo la vida como si estuviera planeada. Y si haces eso, es posible que tu potencial no consiga superar tus expectativas.»" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If something offends you, look inward. . . . That’s a sign that there’s something there." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Tanto Both Prüvit como Kegenix se basan en una patente de BHB + MCT desarrollada por el laboratorio de Dom que es propiedad de su universidad." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“1) To get huge, good things done, you need to be okay with letting the small, bad things happen. 2) People’s IQs seem to double as soon as you give them responsibility and indicate that you trust them." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Qué es lo peor que podría suceder si dejara de actuar como inversor ángel (business angel) durante un mínimo de seis a doce meses?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you haven’t already accomplished at least one important task in the day, don’t spend the last business hour returning a DVD to avoid a $5 late charge. Get the important task done and pay the $5 fine." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“One study has demonstrated that a 30-minute sauna session twice a week for 3 weeks post-workout increased the time it took for study participants to run until exhaustion by 32% compared to baseline. The 32% increase in running endurance found in this particular study was accompanied by a 7.1% increase in plasma volume and 3.5% increase in red blood cell count." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“adopta el hábito más importante de quienes destacan y disfrutan con ello: actuar." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“hope is not a strategy. luck is not a factor. fear is not an option." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“»¿No tendría más sentido guardarse más bien lo contrario? ¿Recordar todas las veces que sí salió bien? ¿Todas las veces que asumimos un riesgo? ¿Todas las veces que logramos alegrarle a alguien el día? Cuando" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What you study is more important than how you study. Students are subordinate to materials, much like novice cooks are subordinate to recipes. If you select the wrong material, the wrong textbook, the wrong group of words, it doesn't matter how much (or how well) you study. It doesn't matter how good your teacher is. One must find the highest-frequency material. Material beats method." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“An expert is a person who has made all the mistakes that can be made in a very narrow field.” –Niels Bohr Danish physicist and Nobel Prize winner" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I’m sorry to hear that. You know, I’ve been taking your insults for a while now, and it’s unfortunate that it seems we won’t be able to do business anymore. I’d recommend you take a good look at where this unhappiness and anger is actually coming from. In any case, I wish you well. If you would like to order product, we’ll be happy to supply it, but only if you can conduct yourself without profanity and unnecessary insults. You have our fax number. All the best and have a nice day." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“After four weeks, we tallied the results. His average monthly fat loss had gone from roughly 5 lbs to 18.75 lbs, a 275% increase. He’d tripled his fat loss by spending less than two minutes consuming a protein shake each morning. Astonishing? Not really. I’d seen the pattern in the data across hundreds of people: simple works, complex fails." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“For all of the most important things, the timing always sucks." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Soy anciano y he pasado gran cantidad de preocupaciones, pero la mayoría de ellas no ha llegado a materializarse jamás." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Most people exist between the on and off switch. They are unable to turn on and put out high power, and they are unable to turn off completely and enjoy true rest." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Am I being productive or just active?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Segundo: ¡los entrevistadores, aburridos de sus propios trabajos, se pasarán toda la reunión preguntándote cómo lo hiciste! Si te preguntan por un casual por qué te tomaste ese tiempo o dejaste tu trabajo anterior, sólo hay una respuesta irrebatible: «Se me presentó una oportunidad de esas que aparecen una vez en la vida de [experiencia exótica que da envidia] y no pude rechazarla. Pensé que, como aún tengo por delante [20-40] años de vida productiva, ¿qué prisa había?»." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«La productividad es para los robots. Si los humanos van a ser realmente buenos en algo será haciendo preguntas, siendo creativos y teniendo experiencias.»" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Los libros no están para mostrar lo inteligente y cultivado que eres." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“while the world is a gold mine, you need to go digging in other people’s heads to unearth riches." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“HeartMath Inner Balance biofeedback monitor. It detects your heart’s minutest rhythms and sends a graph to your smartphone, facilitating HRV training." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“El ayuno vuelve las células cancerosas más sensibles a la quimioterapia, como ya se dijo, pero también ayuda a las células normales a soportar la toxicidad." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“La pelea termina cuando empieza la gratitud." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“1Password o LastPass" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“capacidad de hacer una sola cosa cada vez es un superpoder." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Los libros están para mostrar tu corazón, para mostrar tu alma, y para decirle a cada uno de tus seguidores, de tus lectores: No estás solo.»" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“empiezas a hacer esto consigues redefinirte como persona capaz de influir en el mundo." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Parenting Advice “What could possibly be more important than your kid? Please don’t play the busy card. If you spend 2 hours a day without an electronic device, looking your kid in the eye, talking to them and solving interesting problems, you will raise a different kid than someone who doesn’t do that. That’s one of the reasons why I cook dinner every night. Because what a wonderful, semi-distracted environment in which the kid can tell you the truth. For you to have low-stakes but superimportant conversations with someone who’s important to you." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you don’t have cancer and you do a therapeutic fast 1 to 3 times per year, you could purge any precancerous cells that may be living in your body." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“No hay camino hacia la felicidad, la felicidad es el camino." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Most people aren’t lucky enough to get fired and die a slow spiritual death over 30–40 years of tolerating the mediocre." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Generally, I’ll listen to an audiobook like The Graveyard Book by Neil Gaiman during the heat, then cool off for 5 to 10 minutes using an ice bath (I put 40 pounds of ice in a large bath to get it to roughly 45°F; more details on page 43) and/or by drinking ice water. I’ll repeat this cycle 2 to 4 times." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“nada concentra más tu tiempo como saber cuántos días te quedan." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The moral of the story is, whenever possible, do print/text interviews via email. A paper trail will give you evidence and recourse if people misbehave." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Let it go. I do mean to take life very seriously, but I need to take things like playfulness and purposelessness very seriously. . . . This is not meant to be light, but I think I would have somehow encouraged myself to let go a little bit more and hang in there and not pretend to know where this is all going. You don’t need to know where it’s all going." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“There is no universal path to success." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“You don’t “succeed” because you have no weaknesses; you succeed because you find your unique strengths and focus on developing habits around them. . . . Everyone is fighting a battle [and has fought battles] you know nothing about." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“An expert is a person who has made all the mistakes that can be made in a very narrow field." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“He said the HP mantra was “MBWA.” Translation: Managing By Wandering Around. It stands for being in touch, being human—and learning from everyone." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“We are simultaneously gods and worms.”—Abraham Maslow" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“There are many organizations that fret over small, direct expenses, yet have no misgivings about keeping superfluous staff tied up in a conference room for hours." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“work on the deficiencies you’re most embarrassed by." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“recuerda que has de morir, es una gran manera de recordarte que hay que vivir." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I can think” → Having good rules for decision-making, and having good questions you can ask yourself and others. “I can wait” → Being able to plan long-term, play the long game, and not misallocate your resources. “I can fast” → Being able to withstand difficulties and disaster. Training yourself to be uncommonly resilient and have a high pain tolerance." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“No one is qualified to tell you how you experience the world.” Vlad Zamfir" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Almost every guest has been able to take obvious “weaknesses” and turn them into huge competitive advantages" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“First and foremost, there is a difference between being perceived as an expert and being one. In the context of business, the former is what sells product and the latter, relative to your “minimal customer base,” is what creates good products and prevents returns." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“¿Qué coste te ha supuesto cada creencia o convencimiento en el pasado y qué coste le ha supuesto a la gente que has amado en el pasado?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Escribe para tener ideas, no para expresarlas" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“método de natación de inmersión total de Terry Laughlin," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Those of us who are lucky enough to live in a world where we have enough and we have a roof and we have food—we find ourselves caught in this cycle of keeping track of the wrong things. Keeping track of how many times we’ve been rejected. Keeping track of how many times it didn’t work. Keeping track of all the times someone has broken our heart or double-crossed us or let us down. Of course, we can keep track of those things, but why? Why keep track of them? Are they making us better? “Wouldn’t it make more sense to keep track of the other stuff? To keep track of all the times it worked? All the times we took a risk? All the times we were able to brighten someone else’s day? When we start doing that, we can redefine ourselves as people who are able to make an impact on the world. It took me a bunch of cycles to figure out that the narrative was up to me. “If a narrative isn’t working, well then, really, why are you using it? The narrative isn’t done to you; the narrative is something that you choose. Once" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Tactics are great, but tactics become commoditized.” TF: If you understand principles, you can create tactics. If you are dependent on perishable tactics, you are always at a disadvantage. This is why Ramit studies behavioral psychology and the elements of persuasion that appear hardwired." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Miller, BJ: “‘Don’t believe everything you think." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«What Really Matters at the End of Life», es una de las quince conferencias TED más vistas del año 2015." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“much more productive to focus on “eat and train." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«Mucha, mucha gente trabaja muy duro para ahorrar dinero y poder viajar cuando se jubile." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“You guarantee a good meal by picking the recipes well, not by following recipes well." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“For the great enemy of truth is very often not the lie—deliberate, contrived and dishonest—but the myth—persistent, persuasive, and unrealistic. Too often we hold fast to the clichés of our forebears. We subject all facts to a prefabricated set of interpretations. We enjoy the comfort of opinion without the discomfort of thought.”—John F. Kennedy" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Place an ice pack on the back of the neck or upper trapezius area for 20–30 minutes, preferably in the evening, when insulin sensitivity is lowest. I place a towel on the couch while writing or watching a movie and simply lean back against the ice pack. 2. Consume, as Ray did, at least 500 milliliters of ice water on an empty stomach immediately upon waking. In at least two studies, this water consumption has been shown to increase resting metabolic rate 24–30%, peaking at 40–60 minutes post-consumption, though one study demonstrated a lower effect of 4.5%. Eat breakfast 20–30 minutes later à la the Slow-Carb Diet detailed in earlier chapters. 3. Take 5–10-minute cold showers before breakfast and/or before bed. Use hot water for 1–2 minutes over the entire body, then step out of water range and apply" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“A veces tienes que dejar de hacer cosas que te gustan para favorecer lo que más importa.»" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“yo decidí darle la vuelta a ese plan y viajar siendo muy joven," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Stay humble or get humbled." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Donaciones: «Y la última que he encontrado:" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«La entrada a la que más envío a la gente se titula: “First, Ten” (“Primero diez”), y habla de una teoría sencilla de marketing que dice: cuéntaselo a diez personas, enséñaselo a diez personas, compártelo con diez personas; diez personas que ya confíen en ti y que ya te valoren." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“We should remember the warning of the wise Grail knight in Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade: You must choose, but choose wisely, for as the true Grail will bring you life, the false Grail will take it from you. Choose the highest-yield material and you can be an idiot and enjoy stunning success. Choose poorly and, as the Grail knight implied, you're screwed no matter what. You'll chase your own tail for years." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Success” need not be complicated. Just start with making 1,000 people extremely, extremely happy. Kevin" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“We create stress for ourselves because you feel like you have to do it. You have to. I don’t feel that anymore. —OPRAH WINFREY," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“y qué coste le ha supuesto a la gente que has amado en el pasado?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“No one cares if you are a people person. Have a point of view, and share it meaningfully, thoughtfully, and with conviction." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Shoulder Extension:" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“viví experiencias que no podrían comprarse ni con mil millones" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Success, however you define it, is achievable if you collect the right field-tested beliefs and habits. Someone else has done your version of “success” before, and often, many have done something similar." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What I prefer over trends is a sense of mission. That you are working on a unique problem that people are not solving elsewhere." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Rissa Kerguelen by F. M. Busby. I read this now largely forgotten science fiction book at about the time I was starting my company, and it influenced me deeply. One key idea is the role of entrepreneurship as a “subversive force.” In a world dominated by large companies, it is the smaller companies that keep freedom alive, with economics at least one of the battlegrounds. This book gave me the courage to submerge myself in the details of a fundamentally trivial business (technical writing and publishing) and to let go of my earlier hopes of writing deep books that would change the world. Those hopes came back around later. The other wonderful idea in this book is “the long view.” Well before the Long Now Foundation popularized the idea, Busby hinged his plot on the science fiction trope that in a world of near-light-speed travel, time passes more slowly for those at near-relativistic speed than for those left behind. The characters must set events in motion and travel to meet up with them decades hence. That was also a useful framing as I set out to build a business that would allow me to affect the world of the future in ways that I couldn’t yet as a young entrepreneur." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“. The superheroes you have in your mind (idols, icons, titans, billionaires, etc.) are nearly all walking flaws who’ve maximized 1 or 2 strengths. Humans are imperfect creatures. You don’t “succeed” because you have no weaknesses; you succeed because you find your unique strengths and focus on developing habits around them." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In negotiation, he who cares the least wins." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Bureaucracy is the art of making the possible impossible.”—Javier Pascual Salcedo" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“¿Cuál es el peor consejo que oyes dar a menudo?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Introduction to Mathematical Philosophy by Bertrand Russell Complexity and Chaos by Dr. Roger White The Lily: Evolution, Play, and the Power of a Free Society by Daniel Cloud" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“¿Qué has perdido por culpa de esa creencia o convencimiento? Míralo, óyelo, siéntelo." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«La gran tentación de la gente es querer ser otra persona, quieren protagonizar la película de otro." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I Seem to Be a Verb, de Buckminster Fuller. Cuarenta" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Here’s how the math works. You need to meet two criteria: First, you have to create enough each year that you can earn, on average, $100 profit from each true fan." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Rave reviews of the books Sapiens, Poor Charlie’s Almanack, Influence, and Man’s Search for Meaning, among others" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It’s good not to follow the herd. Go the other way. If everyone’s going that way, you go this other way. You’re gonna stumble, but you’re also gonna stumble upon an idea no one came up with. . . ." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The Power of Myth For screenwriting, Jon recommends The Writer’s Journey by Christopher Vogler, which he used to determine if Swingers was structurally correct. He is also a big fan of The Power of Myth, a video interview of Joseph Campbell by Bill Moyers. “With The Jungle Book, I really am going back and doubling down on the old myths.” TF: We recorded our podcast during the shooting of The Jungle Book, in his production office next to set. Months later, The Jungle Book was the #1 movie in the world and currently has a staggering 95% review average on Rotten Tomatoes. Long-Term Impact Trumps Short-Term Gross “Thanks to video, and later DVD and laser disc, everybody had seen this film [Swingers], and it had become part of our culture. That’s when I learned that it’s not always the movie that does the best [financially] that has the most impact, or is the most rewarding, or does the most for your career, for that matter.” Another Reason to Meditate “In the middle of [a meditation session], the idea for Chef hit me, and I let myself stop, which I don’t usually do, and I took out a pad. I scribbled down like eight pages of ideas and thoughts, [and then I] left it alone. If I look back on it, and read those pages, it really had 80% of the heavy lifting done, as far as what [Chef] was about, who was in it, who the characters were, what other movies to look at, what the tone was, what music I would have in it, what type of food he was making, the idea of the food truck, the Cuban sandwiches, Cuban music . . . so it all sort of grew out from that." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Learn to confront the challenges of the real world, rather than resort to the protective womb of" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It is amazing what you can accomplish if you do not care who gets the credit.”—Harry Truman" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“¿Qué coste tiene cada uno de ellos para ti y para la gente que te importa en el momento presente? Míralo, óyelo, siéntelo." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Dom suggests a 5-day fast 2 to 3 times per year." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Para mí el éxito consiste en crearte un guion propio." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Failure is highly underrated." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Peter expands: “I think of problems as gold mines. The world’s biggest problems are the world’s biggest business opportunities." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In a world of distraction, single-tasking is a superpower." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Second, you must have a direct relationship with your fans. That is, they must pay you directly. You get to keep all of their support, unlike the small percentage of their fees you might get from a music label, publisher, studio, retailer, or other intermediate. If you keep the full $100 from each true fan, then you need only 1,000 of them to earn $100K per year. That’s a living for most folks. 1,000" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“El primer interrogante tiene un poderoso efecto bola de nieve, mientras que el segundo conduce a un resultado binario triunfo/fracaso sin premio de consolación" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“To me, it means using pain to find clarity. If pain is examined and not ignored, it can show you what to excise from your life." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What is the worst advice you see or hear given in your trade or area of expertise? “‘ Follow your dreams.’ It’s impossible to do without self-knowledge, which takes years. You discover your ‘dream’ (or sense of purpose) in the very act of walking the path, which is guided by equal parts choice and chance." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Lose an hour in the morning, chase it all day.”—a Yiddish saying, author unknown" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«¿Por qué hacer el esfuerzo de explicar por qué algo no sirve si los demás no han hecho los deberes para comprobar si sirve?»" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Stressed’ is the achiever word for ‘fear." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“We discourage failure and by doing so we subtly discourage success." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I don’t like work,” says Marlow in Joseph Conrad’s Heart of Darkness, “but I like what is in the work—the chance to find yourself.” Marlow" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Flexibility” can be passive, whereas “mobility” requires that you can demonstrate strength throughout the entire range of motion, including the end ranges." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«Mi recomendación es que, siempre que te sea posible, te plantees: ¿Cuál es la repercusión más pequeña posible que puedo conseguir? ¿Cuál es el proyecto más pequeño posible que merece mi tiempo? ¿Cuál es el grupo más pequeño de gente en el que puedo destacar?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“True fans are not only the direct source of your income, but also your chief marketing force for the ordinary fans. Fans," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“There are only four stories: a love story between two people, a love story between three people, the struggle for power, and the journey. Every single book that is in the bookstore deals with these four archetypes, these four themes." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“When you feel overwhelmed or unfocused, what do you do? I work with my mindset coach, Elliot Roe, and/or use our app Primed Mind. After ten minutes, I’m in the zone, recharged, and ready to focus on my upcoming challenges." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Whenever you find yourself on the side of the majority, it’s time to pause and reflect.” —Mark Twain. This" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The next Bill Gates will not build an operating system. The next Larry Page or Sergey Brin won’t make a search engine. And the next Mark Zuckerberg won’t create a social network. If you are copying these guys, you aren’t learning from them." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Mastery doesn’t come from an infographic. What you know doesn’t mean shit. What do you do consistently?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Eso es, por supuesto, lo que hicieron Jesús y muchas personas más." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Escribe sobre una época en la que supiste que habías hecho lo correcto." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Aim for the Heart, Not the Head “Lesson number one, when people ask me what [interviewing] tips would I give, is aim for the heart, not the head. Once you get the heart, you can go to the head. Once you get the heart and the head, then you’ll have a pathway to the soul." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“La persona que es desatenta en la luna de miel (al principio) irá a peor en el futuro." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Ahora sólo necesita saber cómo explotar su libertad y dar con las herramientas que le permitan vivir con su dinero finito una vida de posibilidades casi infinitas." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Would you tell me, please, which way I ought to go from here?” “That depends a good deal on where you want to get to,” said the Cat. “I don’t much care where …” said Alice. “Then it doesn’t matter which way you go,” said the Cat. —LEWIS CARROLL, Alice in Wonderland The" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Escribe sobre cuando supiste que algo se había acabado." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Asymmetrical risks and rewards: “Every single one of them is obsessed with asymmetrical risk and reward. . . . It simply means they’re looking to use the least amount of risk to get the max amount of upside, and that’s what they live for. . . . [They don’t believe they] have to take huge risks for huge rewards. Say, ‘How do I get no risk and get huge rewards?’ and because you ask a question continuously and you believe [there’s an] answer, you get it." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“»Queremos aspirar a lo grande. El infinito es nuestro amigo. El infinito es seguro. El infinito nos ofrece un lugar donde escondernos." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Whether you are raising money, pitching your product to customers, selling the company, or recruiting employees, never forget that underneath all the math and the MBA bullshit talk, we are all still emotionally driven human beings. We want to attach ourselves to narratives. We don’t act because of equations. We follow our beliefs. We get behind leaders who stir our feelings. In the early days of your venture, if you find someone diving too deep into the numbers, that means they are struggling to find a reason to deeply care about you." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Claves para escribir de Cheryl Strayed" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«Invierte un poco más de tiempo en hacerlo un poco más humano o (dependiendo del negocio) un poco más divertido, un poco más diferente, o un poco más lo que sea. Valdrá la pena, y ése es mi estímulo.» (Véase el mejor" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I think it’s an analogy for that choice we all have in life: Are you going to fulfill your potential? Or, are you just going to give into the peer pressure of the moment and become nothing?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“My billboard would say this: “Busy is a decision.” Here’s why: Of the many, many excuses people use to rationalize why they can’t do something, the excuse “I am too busy” is not only the most inauthentic, it is also the laziest. I don’t believe in “too busy.” Like I said, busy is a decision. We do the things we want to do, period. If we say we are too busy, it is shorthand for “not important enough." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Limit tasks to the important to shorten work time (80/20). 2. Shorten work time to limit tasks to the important (Parkinson’s Law)." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I’m there to learn. I’m not there to win; I’m there to learn, because then I’ll win, eventually. . . ." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Hi Tim, Patience. Far too soon to expect strength improvements. Strength improvements [for a movement like this] take a minimum of 6 weeks. Any perceived improvements prior to that are simply the result of improved synaptic facilitation. In plain English, the central nervous system simply became more efficient at that particular movement with practice. This is, however, not to be confused with actual strength gains. Dealing with the temporary frustration of not making progress is an integral part of the path towards excellence. In fact, it is essential and something that every single elite athlete has had to learn to deal with. If the pursuit of excellence was easy, everyone would do it. In fact, this impatience in dealing with frustration is the primary reason that most people fail to achieve their goals. Unreasonable expectations timewise, resulting in unnecessary frustration, due to a perceived feeling of failure. Achieving the extraordinary is not a linear process. The secret is to show up, do the work, and go home. A blue collar work ethic married to indomitable will. It is literally that simple. Nothing interferes. Nothing can sway you from your purpose. Once the decision is made, simply refuse to budge. Refuse to compromise. And accept that quality long-term results require quality long-term focus. No emotion. No drama. No beating yourself up over small bumps in the road. Learn to enjoy and appreciate the process. This is especially important because you are going to spend far more time on the actual journey than with those all too brief moments of triumph at the end. Certainly celebrate the moments of triumph when they occur. More importantly, learn from defeats when they happen. In fact, if you are not encountering defeat on a fairly regular basis, you are not trying hard enough. And absolutely refuse to accept less than your best. Throw out a timeline. It will take what it takes. If the commitment is to a long-term goal and not to a series of smaller intermediate goals, then only one decision needs to be made and adhered to. Clear, simple, straightforward. Much easier to maintain than having to make small decision after small decision to stay the course when dealing with each step along the way. This provides far too many opportunities to inadvertently drift from your chosen goal. The single decision is one of the most powerful tools in the toolbox." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«El sentimiento de culpa [es] interesante porque la culpa es lo contrario del prestigio," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“¿Qué coste tendrá cada uno de ellos para ti y para la gente que te importa dentro de uno, tres, cinco y diez años? Míralo, óyelo, siéntelo." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“But,” you might ask, “what about a first, like colonizing Mars?” There are still recipes. Look" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I don’t like the word ‘education’ because it is such an extraordinary abstraction. I’m very much in favor of learning. I’m much more skeptical of credentialing or the abstraction called ‘education.’ So" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“(Véase el apartado titulado «La ley de la categoría».)" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“cherylstrayed.com) es" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Workout A All exercises, except for kettlebell swings, are performed for 10 repetitions using a 13-Repetition Max2 (RM) weight. 1. Heavy dumbbell front squat to press (ass to heels)—squeeze glutes at bottom for one second before rising 2. One-arm, one-leg DB row 3. Walking lunges with sprinter knee raise 4. Wide-grip push-ups3 5. Two-arm kettlebell swings × 20–25 Repeat sequence 2–4 times. Workout" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you stress-test the boundaries and experiment with the “impossibles,” you’ll quickly discover that most limitations are a fragile collection of socially reinforced rules you can choose to break at any time." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I participate in a program called D.E.A.R. which stands for Drop Everything and Read, where a few times a month I come in and read to each class." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Así que quiero animar a la gente a que, en lugar de eso, aspire a lo pequeño. Que te sitúes en un punto medio, allí donde la gente pueda encontrarte. Que tengas algún tipo de interacción con una tribu, con un grupo donde no tengas un montón de botes salvavidas.»" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The quality of your life is the quality of your questions." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“don’t recommend using Outlook or computerized to-do lists, because it is possible to add an infinite number of items. I use a standard piece of paper folded in half three times, which fits perfectly in the pocket and limits you to noting only a few items. There should never" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Even today, I still benefit from that because I don’t merge and bring things together and see everything as one big problem. I" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“David Deutsch’s The Beginning of Infinity. It’s a remarkable argument for the power of knowledge—as not just a human capability but as a force that shapes the universe." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“heart rate variability (HRV) training, meditation, and a number of deep work" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What you choose to work on, and who you choose to work with, are far more important than how hard you work." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Tres documentales que nos encantan a ambos son The King of Kong, Man on Wire y A State of Mind." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“lugar para elegir entre una amplia selección es VintageWesternWear.com. Una camisa puede parecer poca cosa," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“You are forced to shed artificial constraints, like shedding a skin, to realize that you had the ability to renegotiate your reality all along. It just takes practice." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It doesn’t take much to seem superhuman and appear “successful” to nearly everyone around you. In fact, you just need one rule: What you do is more important than how you do everything else, and doing something well does not make it important." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Oh, that wasn’t a failure. That was a key moment of my development that I needed to take, and I can trust my instinct. I really can." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The realization that the best way to get things done is to let go. Here’s the thing. . . . It’s often the case that people want to help you or work with you. But they can’t if you insist on holding on to tight control. The more you let go, the more people will surprise you." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Steven Pinker: anything. He’s one of the clearest thinkers and communicators of our time. Among many other things, he convinced me that I could never understand myself without understanding how humans evolved." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Law 11: “No” simply means begin again at one level higher." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“TF: Decide beforehand—and not reactively when emotions run high—what types of findings are worth acting upon or ignoring, and what your “if/then” actions will be" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“We waste our time with short-term thinking and busywork. Warren Buffett spends a year deciding and a day acting. That act lasts decades." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“y ambos son razones horribles para hacer las cosas»." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you could have a gigantic billboard anywhere with anything on it, what would it say and why? “Hard choices, easy life. Easy choices, hard life." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“We live in the age of Alexandria, when every book and every piece of knowledge ever written down is a fingertip away. The means of learning are abundant—it’s the desire to learn that’s scarce." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“if we move beyond the education bubble that we’re living in today, the future will be one in which people can speak about these things more clearly." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Life is not designed to hand us success or satisfaction, but rather to present us with challenges that make us grow." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Qué es lo peor que puede pasar" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“You have a lot less time than you think, and you’re not spending your time the way you think you are." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Note to the ladies, for whom peanut butter seems to be like crack: the tablespoon scoop should be no more than a small mound, not half the jar balanced on a spoon." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“-It is possible to vastly compress most learning. In a surprising number of cases, it is possible to do something in 1-10 months that is assumed to take 1-10 years. -The more you compress things, the more physical limiters become a bottleneck. All learning is physically limited. The brain is dependent on finite quantities of neurotransmitters, memories require REM and non-REM (NREM) sleep for consolidation, etc. The learning graph is not unlike the stress-recovery-hyperadaptation curves of weight training. -The more extreme your ambition, just as in sports, the more you need performance enhancement via unusual schedules, diet, drugs, etc. -Most important: due to the bipolar nature of the learning process, you can forecast setbacks. If you don't, you increase the likelihood of losing morale and quitting before the inflection point." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you telescope out 10 years and know with 100% certainty that it is a path of disappointment and regret, and if we define risk as “the likelihood of an irreversible negative outcome,” inaction is the greatest risk of all." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Whether it’s a morning routine, or a philosophy or training tip, or just motivation to get through your day, there isn’t a person on this planet who doesn’t benefit from a little outside help." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Fun things happen when you earn dollars, live on pesos, and compensate in rupees, but that’s just the beginning." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“»Yo procuro aprender del pasado sin dejarme inspirar por él. La gran pregunta que me hago siempre es, “¿Qué querían hacer y por qué funcionó?”." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Tara by Maria Popova (page 406), who said, “[Tara] has changed my life, perhaps more profoundly than anybody in my life.” I then read Tara’s first book, Radical Acceptance," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“When you’re earlier in your career, I think the best strategy is to just say ‘yes’ to everything. Every little gig. You just never know what are the lottery tickets." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“But the best things that ever happened to me came during the times when the shit hit the fan and I had nothing and nobody to help me. Who are you really? What do you really want? Get out there and fail and find out." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Buffett told him, “Investing in yourself is the most important investment you’ll ever make in your life. . . . There’s no financial investment that’ll ever match it, because if you develop more skill, more ability, more insight, more capacity, that’s what’s going to really provide economic freedom. . . . It’s those skill sets that really make that happen." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“lo peor que puede pasar es que acabe llevando una mochila y un saco de dormir" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“You can do so much in ten minutes’ time. Ten minutes, once gone, are gone for good. Divide your life into ten-minute units and sacrifice as few of them as possible in meaningless activity.” –Ingvar Kamprad" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Here’s why I think it seems to work, and there are several possibilities." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Me gusta analizar lo que Seth no hace tanto como lo que sí hace. Seth no tiene comentarios en su blog, no presta atención a las analíticas y no usa Twitter ni Facebook" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“As you stumble and learn, stumble and learn again, resolve to talk to yourself as if you were your best friend. So no What a #?%$@ idiot! when your BFF smashes an egg on the floor, m'kay? Be cool, like the Fonz." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Several weeks ago, I came across this poem by Portia Nelson: Autobiography in Five Short Chapters Chapter One I walk down the street. There is a deep hole in the sidewalk. I fall in. I am lost . . . I am helpless.      It isn’t my fault. It takes forever to find a way out. Chapter Two I walk down the same street. There is a deep hole in the sidewalk. I pretend I don’t see it. I fall in again. I can’t believe I am in this same place.      But it isn’t my fault. It still takes a long time to get out. Chapter Three I walk down the same street. There is a deep hole in the sidewalk. I see it is there. I still fall in . . . it’s a habit . . .      but, my eyes are open.      I know where I am. It is my fault. I get out immediately. Chapter Four I walk down the same street. There is a deep hole in the sidewalk. I walk around it. Chapter Five I walk down another street." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I don’t think failure is sometimes part of the process—it always is. When you feel you can’t go on, know that you’re just getting started." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I am a big believer that if you have a very clear vision of where you want to go, then the rest of it is much easier." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“something like, “You’re totally right. I never thought about that." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“As to methods there may be a million and then some, but principles are few. The man who grasps principles can successfully select his own methods. The man who tries methods, ignoring principles, is sure to have trouble. —RALPH WALDO EMERSON" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Trying to get everyone to like you is a sign of mediocrity. You’ll avoid the tough decisions, and you’ll avoid confronting the people who need to be confronted.”—Colin Powell" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Listening is about being present, not just being quiet." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“You realize that you will never be the best-looking person in the room. You’ll never be the smartest person in the room. You’ll never be the most educated, the most well-versed. You can never compete on those levels. But what you can always compete on, the true egalitarian aspect to success, is hard work. You can always work harder than the next guy." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Malgastamos la vida con detalles… Simplifica, simplifica… Un hombre es rico en proporción a la cantidad de cosas de las que puede prescindir." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Am I being productive or just active? Charney captured the essence of this with less-abstract wording: Am I inventing things to do to avoid the important? He eliminated all of the activities he used as crutches and began to focus on demonstrating results instead of showing dedication. Dedication is often just meaningless work in disguise. Be ruthless and cut the fat." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Elogio de la ociosidad y otros ensayos (Diario Público, 2010), de Bertrand Russell." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Regla nº 1: Evita los carbohidratos «blancos» (o todo lo que pueda ser blanco). Regla nº 2: Repite las mismas pocas comidas una y otra vez. Regla nº 3: No bebas calorías. Regla nº 4: No comas fruta. Regla nº 5: Tómate un día libre por semana y enloquece." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“»¿Cómo se mide el éxito en última instancia? Para mí no consiste en medir el mucho tiempo que dedicas a hacer lo que te gusta. Sino en medir el poco tiempo que pasas haciendo lo que odias. Y esta mujer se pasaba todo el día y todos los días haciendo lo que más le gustaba.»" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Milan Kundera, author of The Unbearable Lightness of Being, has said that “The stupidity of people comes from having an answer for everything. The wisdom of the novel comes from having a question for everything." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Absurdism is unreasonably effective because it apparently has very little to do with any setting in particular, but still (I claim) ends up useful in practice in lots of settings. This is especially noticeable to me when I am at a loss for what to do. Take depression, for example. I find that my depression is usually born from intentions that I have, but for some reason cannot (or do not, perhaps for lack of motivation) bear them out. And when I’m struggling in the absurd, I do my best to give up. I often decide to do something, or a whole pile of somethings, then beat myself up for not doing it. It turns out that I often beat myself up to the point of depression for not doing it. I get depressed just because I am not doing what I think I" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Si la dieta cetogénica te parece para lunáticos, el empleo de cetonas exógenas sólo requiere mezclar una cucharada de polvo con agua y beber." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The key in a restaurant, and the key in any kind of high-pressure situation, I think, is that 75% of success is staying calm and not losing your nerve. The rest you figure out, but once you lose your calm, everything else starts falling apart fast." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Yo uso VeraCrypt (ver" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Workout B 1. One-leg Romanian Deadlift (RDL)4 (10–12 reps each side) 2. Chin-up (four-second negative lowering portion only) × 10 or until you cannot control descent5 3. One-leg hamstring curls on a Swiss ball—6–12 reps each leg 4. Plank for abs (and gluteus medius on sides) → Progression: start with 30 seconds front, 30 seconds each side, working up to 90 seconds maximum 5. Reverse hyper × 15–25 Repeat sequence 2–4 times. See" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The Standard Pace is for chumps." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“You can’t blame your boss for not giving you the support you need. Plenty of people will say, ‘It’s my boss’s fault.’ No, it’s actually your fault because you haven’t educated him, you haven’t influenced him, you haven’t explained to him in a manner he understands why you need this support that you need. That’s extreme ownership. Own it all.” A Good Reason to Be an Early Riser “I’m up and getting after it by 4: 45. I like to have that psychological win over the enemy. For me, when I wake up in the morning—and I don’t know why—I’m thinking about the enemy and what they’re doing. I know I’m not on active duty anymore, but it’s still in my head: that there’s a guy in a cave somewhere, he’s rocking back and forth, and he’s got a machine gun in one hand and a grenade in the other. He’s waiting for me, and we’re going to meet. When I wake up in the morning, I’m thinking to myself: What can I do to be ready for that moment, which is coming? That propels me out of bed.” TF: This story has compelled so many listeners to start waking early that there is a #0445club hashtag on Twitter, featuring pictures of wristwatches. It’s still going strong more than a year after the podcast." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Expect small problems. Life is full of compromises, and it’s necessary to let small bad things happen if you want to get huge good things done. There is no escape. Prevent all problems and get nothing done, or accept an allowable level of small problems and focus on the big things." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you prioritize properly, there is no need to multitask. It is a symptom of “task creep”—doing more to feel productive while actually accomplishing less. As stated, you should have, at most, two primary goals or tasks per day. Do them separately from start to finish without distraction. Divided attention will result in more frequent interruptions, lapses in concentration, poorer net results, and less gratification." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Jack Canfield quote, “Everything you want is on the other side of fear." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In this way, quitting should never be seen as the end of something grudging and unpleasant. Rather, it’s a vital step in beginning something new and wonderful." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Cuando oigo historias de éxito y fracaso busco las pequeñas cosas que marcaron una gran diferencia." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Wine is a grocery, not a luxury." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“»Todos esos artistas y escritores que se quejan de lo duro que es su trabajo, lo tedioso que es el proceso creativo y," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What do people agree merely by convention, and what is the truth?’ There’s a consensus of things that people believe to be true. Maybe the conventions are right, and maybe they’re not. And we never want to let a convention be a shortcut for truth. We always need to ask: Is this true? And this is always what I get at with this indirect question: ‘Tell me something that’s true that very few people agree with you on." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Quality Questions Create a Quality Life" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Otra de mis armas favoritas es practicar el miedo:" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you had a heart attack and had to work two hours per day, what would you do?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Meditate for a Year, Get Benefits for Life?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Don’t worry about what you’re going to do with the rest of your life. Just find a profitable and interesting use for the next three to five years." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Perfection is not when there is no more to add, but no more to take away. —ANTOINE DE SAINT-EXUPÉRY, pioneer" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“qué genios tan torturados son. No me convence…" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“It’s so beautiful how life unfolds, if we lay it all on the line and keep our pores open." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Cosmología gozosa (Impressions, 1979), de Alan. W. Watts." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Anyone who lives within their means suffers from a lack of imagination.” –Oscar Wilde Irish writer, author of The Picture of Dorian Gray" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you had a second heart attack and had to work two hours per week, what would you do? 3. If you had a gun to your head and had to stop doing ⅘ of different time-consuming activities, what would you remove?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“John Dewey’s dictum that “a problem well put is half-solved” applies." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Sometimes, the clues that you put outwardly are too subtle to be heard, or someone is just talking louder than you." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“my advice to my 30-year-old self is, don’t be a donkey. You can do everything you want to do. You just need foresight and patience." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Como si la dificultad y el esfuerzo y la tortura confirieran de algún modo seriedad al trabajo que has elegido." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The quality of your life is the quality of your questions.” Questions determine your focus." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What are bad recommendations you hear in your profession or area of expertise? The biggest one is that international audiences won’t see films about people of color. It’s particularly insidious, but it’s reflective of a broader issue wherein Hollywood accepts conventional wisdom that is more convention than wisdom without interrogating whether there’s any evidence to support those assumptions. What advice would you give to a smart, driven college student about to enter the “real world”? Try everything you think you might want to do professionally before accepting whatever backup plan you have in the back of your head but are very much hoping to avoid." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“* Who do you think of when you hear the word “successful”? “The first people who come to mind are the real heroes of Task Unit Bruiser: Marc Lee, first SEAL killed in Iraq. Mike Monsoor, second SEAL killed in Iraq, posthumously awarded the Medal of Honor after he jumped on a grenade to save three of our other teammates. And finally, Ryan Job, one of my guys [who was] gravely wounded in Iraq, blinded in both eyes, but who made it back to America, was medically retired from the Navy, but who died from complications after the 22nd surgery to repair his wounds. Those guys, those men, those heroes, they lived, and fought, and died like warriors.” * Most-gifted or recommended books? “I think there’s only one book that I’ve ever given and I’ve only given it to a couple people. That’s a book called About Face, by Colonel David H. Hackworth. The other book that I’ve read multiple times is Blood Meridian [by Cormac McCarthy].” * Favorite documentaries? “Restrepo, which I’m sure you’ve seen. [TF: This was co-produced and co-filmed by Sebastian Junger, the next profile.] There is also an hour-long program called ‘A Chance in Hell: The Battle for Ramadi.’” Quick Takes * You walk into a bar. What do you order from the bartender? “Water.” * What does your diet generally look like? “It generally looks like steak.” * What kind of music does Jocko listen to? Two samples: For workouts—Black Flag, My War, side B In general—White Buffalo" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“In any situation in life, you only have three options. You always have three options. You can change it, you can accept it, or you can leave it. What" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“A problem is a terrible thing to waste.” This is highly related to the “scratch your own itch” thread that pops up throughout this book. Peter expands: “I think of problems as gold mines. The world’s biggest problems are the world’s biggest business opportunities." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“¿De qué creencia convencional se prescindió?… Yo evito usar un éxito pasado como un poder para el futuro. Al fin y al cabo, el pequeño secreto inconfesable es que todo éxito fue casi un fracaso." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Don’t panic." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“the best thing to do is give people questions they’re not expecting." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“«Thoreau escribe: “El trabajador realmente eficiente no tendrá la jornada repleta de trabajo," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“May all of your creations have just the right flavor," -Yuval Noah Harari 
“E-mail is the last thing people let go of. Fortune 500 CEOs, best-selling authors, celebrities—I know dozens of top performers who delegate everything but e-mail, which they latch onto as something only they can do. “No one can check my e-mail for me” is the unquestioned assumption, or “I answer every e-mail I receive” is the unquestioned bragging right that keeps them in front of a computer for 8–12 hours at a stretch. It’s not fun, and it keeps them from higher-impact or more rewarding activities." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What did I key into the sat-nav system of my life [where do I want to be 10, 20 years from now]? What is my ultimate destination? You have to look at that every time you feel overwhelmed. Remembering that destination will help you make the single most important distinction in life, which is to distinguish between an opportunity to be seized and a temptation to be resisted." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Service for the Right Reasons: To Save the Whales, or Kill Them and Feed the Children? Morality is simply the attitude we adopt toward people we personally dislike. —OSCAR WILDE" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Who are the 20% of people who produce 80% of your enjoyment and propel you forward, and which 20% cause 80% of your depression, anger, and second-guessing? Identify: Positive friends versus time-consuming friends: Who is helping versus hurting you, and how do you increase your time with the former while decreasing or eliminating your time with the latter?" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Write everything down because it’s all very fleeting." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“sino que hará con tranquilidad su tarea rodeado por un gran halo de bienestar y esparcimiento. Tendrá mucho margen para la relajación en su jornada. Sólo se preocupará de asegurarse las semillas del tiempo sin exagerar el valor de la cáscara”. Qué bella metáfora para no confundir la cáscara (los accesorios externos de la productividad, como el ajetreo o un calendario lleno o un autocontestador inteligente) con el grano, el núcleo y la esencia del verdadero trabajo producido. Y después continúa diciendo: “Quien trabaja mucho, no trabaja duro”. Me encanta esto». «La nuestra es una cultura en la que quemamos el talento para sobrevivir durmiendo muy poco, como si eso fuera una especie de medalla de honor que simboliza ética laboral, o aguante, o alguna otra virtud, aunque en realidad responde a una completa y profunda falta de prioridades y de respeto por uno mismo.» Para recordarnos esta «profunda carencia», Maria, yo y al menos otros seis invitados de este libro leemos y recomendamos Sobre la brevedad de la vida, de Séneca. Lema de cabecera de Maria en Facebook, y una buena regla para la vida" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I now eat four Brazil nuts and one tablespoon of almond butter first thing upon waking." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“I have become better at saying no to things and people (including friends and family) that drain my energy. This isn’t easy, especially if you are a people-pleaser." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The reasonable man adapts himself to the world; the unreasonable one persists in trying to adapt the world to himself. Therefore all progress depends on the unreasonable man." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Justin listens to Max Richter’s From Sleep, a composed album with a shortened version on Spotify. “I put it on very quietly as I am starting my bedtime routine, so it usually ends 15 to 20 minutes after I’m asleep. Or I will use the Sonos sleep timer, if I’m at home." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“[So, what do you do?] I never enjoyed answering this cocktail question because it reflects an epidemic I was long part of: job descriptions as self-descriptions. If someone asks me now and is anything but absolutely sincere, I explain my lifestyle of mysterious means simply. I'm a drug dealer." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Bueno, tengo que animarme a mí mismo antes de que los demás me animen a mí”. Y pensé: “Es una lógica fantástica. Buena respuesta”.»" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Exact numbers aren’t needed to realize that we spend too much time with those who poison us with pessimism, sloth, and low expectations of themselves and the world." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“you put creativity in everything, everything becomes available to you.’ . . ." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“If you don’t have 20 minutes to delve into yourself through meditation, then that means you really need 2 hours." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Most who avoid quitting their jobs entertain the thought that their course will improve with time or increases in income. This seems valid and is a tempting hallucination when a job is boring or uninspiring instead of pure hell. Pure hell forces action, but anything less can be endured with enough clever rationalization. Do you really think it will improve or is it wishful thinking and an excuse for inaction? If you were confident in improvement, would you really be questioning things so? Generally not. This is fear of the unknown disguised as optimism. Are you better off than you were one year ago, one month ago, or one week ago? If not, things will not improve by themselves. If you are kidding yourself, it is time to stop and plan for a jump. Barring any James Dean ending, your life is going to be LONG. Nine to five for your working lifetime of 40–50 years is a long-ass time if the rescue doesn’t come. About 500 months of solid work. How many do you have to go? It’s probably time to cut your losses." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Quien trabaja mucho, no trabaja duro”." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“The more we associate experience with cash value, the more we think that money is what we need to live. And the more we associate money with life, the more we convince ourselves that we’re too poor to buy our freedom." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Be in a hurry to learn, not in a hurry to get validation." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“After it was sold, the president of one potential marketing partner, a large bookseller, e-mailed me historical bestseller statistics to make it clear—this wouldn’t be a mainstream success. So I did all I knew how to do. I wrote it with two of my closest friends in mind, speaking directly to them and their problems—problems I long had—and I focused on the unusual options" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“»Creo que debemos enseñar a los chicos dos cosas: 1) a dirigir, y 2) a resolver problemas interesantes. Porque la cuestión es que hay un montón de países en la Tierra con gente dispuesta a ser obediente y a trabajar más por menos dinero que nosotros." -Yuval Noah Harari 
“People-pleasing is a form of assholery,’ which" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“What information consumes is rather obvious: it consumes the attention of its recipients. Hence, a wealth of information creates a poverty of attention and a need to allocate that attention efficiently among the overabundance" -Yuval Noah Harari 
“Me obligo a mí mismo a dejar de comparar lo que aprendo con el pasado. Si sólo te fijas en los patrones del pasado, no llegarás lejos.»" -Yuval Noah Harari 
